---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before the 
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No.  8755 / November 17, 2006 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  54776 / November 17, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2516 / November 17, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12481 
                                                               
     : 
In the Matter of                                       : 
     : ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
     : PROCEEDINGS, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
     : IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
                                                                      :             PURSUANT TO SECTION 8A OF THE  
BRUCE M. PERRY                              :             SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 AND SECTION  
     : 21C OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT  
     : OF 1934 
Respondent.    :   
                                                              : 
 I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the 
Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (“Exchange Act”), against  Bruce M. Perry (“Perry”). 
  
 II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Perry has submitted an Offer of 
Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose 
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are 
admitted, Perry consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, 
Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to Section 8A of the 
Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set 
forth below.   
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

  
 
                                                 III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Perry’s Offer, the Commission  finds1
                                                                             that: 
 
                                               Perry 
 
               1.          Bruce M. Perry, age 60, served as   chief executive officer of Mount Sinai 
 Medical Center, Inc., from January 1999 through October 2001.  Mount Sinai terminated Perry on 
 October 8, 2001.  
  
                                Mount Sinai’s 2001 Bond Offering  
 
                            2.           <comp.>Mount Sinai</> is a not-for-profit corporation located in Miami Beach, Florida, 
which operates a multi-campus hospital, including a 701-bed, teaching and research hospital and 
various satellite outpatient facilities and physician offices.   
 
                            3.           On May 24, 2001, Mount Sinai, through the City of Miami Beach Health 
Facilities Authority (the “Authority”), issued three series of municipal bonds (Series 2001A, Series 
2001B and Series 2001C) totaling approximately $184 million (the “2001 Bonds”).  The purpose of 
the issuance was primarily to re-finance Mount Sinai’s acquisition of the Miami Heart Institute and 
Medical Center, purchased by Mount Sinai in June 2000.  The 2001 Bonds were limited obligations 
of the Authority payable solely from payments made by Mount Sinai pursuant to a loan agreement 
between Mount Sinai and the Authority.  The bonds were rated “BBB,” “Baa3,” and “BBB+” by 
Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. and Fitch, Inc., respectively. 
 
                            4.           The Official Statements to the bond offerings contained Mount Sinai’s 
audited financial statements for the years 1999 and 2000.  The Official Statements also included 
Mount Sinai’s forecasted financial statements, as of March 30, 2001, for the years 2001 through 
2003.  The forecasted financial statements projected operating losses totaling $7.5 million for fiscal 
year 2001, losses totaling $2.6 million for fiscal year 2002, and operating income of $2.5 million for 
fiscal year 2003.   
 
                            5.           The Official Statements contained an anti-fraud certificate, signed by Perry 
as CEO, that certified on behalf of Mount Sinai: (i) the statements and information contained in the 
Official Statement were true, correct and complete in all material respects; (ii) the Official Statement 
did not contain any untrue or incorrect statements or omissions of material fact; and (iii) Mount 
Sinai’s financial condition had not materially or adversely changed since December 31, 2000.     

                                                 
1
  The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer and are not binding on any other person or entity in 
this or any other proceeding. 
 
                                                  2
---------------------Page 3---------------------

  
 
                            6.           In addition, the Official Statements contained another certificate, executed by 
Mount Sinai’s chief financial officer (“CFO”), in which he certified to Mount Sinai’s bond counsel 
that the Official Statements did not contain any untrue statements or omissions of a material fact.   
 
                            7.           The terms of the bond covenants required Mount Sinai to file quarterly 
reports with various repositories, which would then be available for review by existing and 
prospective investors.  Accordingly, on August 24, 2001, Mount Sinai filed its second-quarter report 
for the quarter ended June 30, 2001.  The second-quarter report was signed by Mt. Sinai’s CFO.   
   
                 Misrepresentations and Omissions in the Official Statement 
         
                            8.           Mount Sinai, through Perry and other former senior management, failed to 
disclose the hospital’s deteriorating financial condition at the time of the offering.  Specifically, 
Mount Sinai failed to disclose in the Official Statements that the hospital was experiencing a 
significant deterioration in its cash position and was in the midst of a severe liquidity problem.  
Indeed, Mount Sinai’s financial condition began to materially decline after it underwent a computer 
conversion in December 2000 to update its patient accounting system within its business office.   
The computer conversion gave rise to major problems that substantially impacted Mount Sinai’s 
billing and collection process.  For example, Mount Sinai experienced substantial delays in billings 
and a significant rise in failed billings to third-party payors.  In addition, the hospital’s patient 
accounts receivable grew substantially -- increasing from approximately $70 million at the end of 
December 2000 to more than $90 million by June 30, 2001.  As a direct result of its billing and 
collections problems, Mount Sinai’s cash position began to materially worsen after December 2000, 
and continued to worsen through at least the time of the issuance of the 2001 Bonds in May.   
 
                            9.           In addition, Mount Sinai, at the direction of Perry and other former senior 
management, represented in the Official Statements that eight of the hospital’s high-volume 
managed care contracts had been renegotiated, and that the renegotiated contracts were expected 
to contribute approximately $10 million of additional revenue to the hospital on an annual basis 
beginning in 2001.  In fact, at the time of the issuance of the 2001 bonds, only three of the eight 
major contracts had actually been renegotiated.   
 
                            10.        Moreover, the financial statements forecasting the hospital’s anticipated 
revenue through the end of 2003, which were included in the Official Statements, were 
misleading.  The forecasted financial statements projected operating losses for 2001 and 2002 
totaling $7.5 million and $2.6 million, respectively, and a relatively small surplus in 2003.  The 
forecasted financials included net patient service revenue and accounts receivable projections that 
were calculated using Mount Sinai’s 2001 contractual deduction rate.    2
                                                                            That contractual 

                                                 
2
       Contractual deductions are an estimate of the deductions that the hospital expects will not be paid based on 
contracts or other arrangements with its third-party payors.  Mount Sinai recorded net patient service revenue based 
on a percentage that reflected the average of all of the hospital’s contractual deductions with its third-party payors.  
This percentage is called the “contractual deduction rate.”   
                                                   3
---------------------Page 4---------------------

  
 
deduction rate, however, was based on the false notion that Mount Sinai had renegotiated all of 
its eight largest managed care contracts.   
 
                            11.        Given the facts known by Perry and other Mount Sinai former senior 
managers, the representations made by Perry and the CFO in the anti-fraud certificates 
accompanying the Official Statements were false and misleading.  The representations in the anti-
fraud certificates that the Official Statements did not contain any untrue statements or omissions of a 
material fact, and that Mount Sinai’s financial condition had not materially or adversely changed 
since fiscal year 2000, were contradicted by Mount Sinai’s deteriorating financial situation, the 
actual situations with the renegotiation of the managed care contracts, and the inaccurate projections 
included in the forecasted financial statements.  
 
                              False and Misleading Statements to 
                      Institutional Investors and Bond Rating Agencies 
                                                  
                            12.        During a presentation given to prospective institutional bond investors on 
April 30, 2001, Mount Sinai represented that it had been successful in renegotiating all eight of its 
largest managed care contracts and that the renegotiated rates would result in a $10 million 
improvement to revenue beginning in 2001.  In fact, as mentioned above, only three of the contracts 
had been renegotiated.  Mount Sinai also provided institutional investors with baseless projections 
concerning the hospital’s net patient service revenue and accounts receivable.  Mount Sinai, through 
Perry and other former senior management, was aware that Mount Sinai’s cash position had 
materially declined prior to the bond offering, and that the cash situation at the hospital 
continued to be a major concern up until the date of the bond offering.  Perry and others 
nevertheless failed to disclose this cash crisis or update the hospital’s financial information.  To 
the contrary, Perry certified that Mount Sinai’s financial condition had not materially or 
adversely changed since December 31, 2000. Mount Sinai’s CFO also falsely certified to bond 
counsel that the Official Statement did not contain any untrue statements or omissions of a material 
fact.  In light of the severe cash crisis and growing accounts receivable problem that Perry and others 
knew the hospital was experiencing before the bond offering, these certifications were plainly false. 
 
                     13.        In March and April 2001, Mount Sinai, through Perry and other former 
senior management, gave similar presentations to certain bond rating agencies during which Mount 
Sinai again represented that it had renegotiated all eight of its largest managed care contracts, 
resulting in an annual improvement in revenues of $10 million.  
                                                  
                                                  
                                                  
                                                  
                Misrepresentations and Omissions in Mount Sinai’s Second- 
                     Quarter Report for the Period Ended <date.>June 30, 2001</> 
                                                  

                                                 4
---------------------Page 5---------------------

  
 
  14. M                  ount Sinai’s second-quarter report for the period ending June 30, 2001 
reflected a $5 million write-off in accounts receivable Mount Sinai recorded in June 2001.  Although 
the second-quarter report discussed the $5 million write-off, Mount Sinai failed to adequately 
disclose in the report the circumstances requiring the write-off.   By the time of the filing of the 
second-quarter report, Perry and other senior management at Mount Sinai knew that the managed 
care contracts had not been renegotiated and that Mount Sinai may have been using a contractual 
deduction rate for recording net patient service <item.>revenue</> that was too low.  Mount Sinai nevertheless 
failed to disclose this information to investors in its second-quarter report.  
 
                            15.        Mount Sinai also failed to disclose in the second-quarter report that by the 
time of the filing of that report, Perry and other senior management knew additional write-offs of 
accounts receivable would be necessary, and that those write-offs could be as high as $20 million.  
Mount Sinai ultimately recorded a $21 million reduction in net patient service revenue and accounts 
receivable in September 2001, which was mostly the result of the improper contractual deduction 
rate used by Mount Sinai for the first nine months of 2001. 
 
                            16.        Additionally, Mount Sinai failed to  disclose in the second quarterly report 
that, at the time of its filing, Mount Sinai continued to struggle with its cash flow situation.  Finally, 
the report failed to disclose the fact that an accounting firm began running Mount Sinai’s business 
office because of the problems with its billing and collection process.   
   
                                 
                                             Violations 
          
                            17.        As a result of the conduct described above, Perry violated, and caused Mount 
Sinai’s violations of, Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, which prohibits fraudulent conduct in the 
offer or sale of securities. 
 
                            18.        As a result of the conduct described above, Perry violated, and caused Mount 
Sinai’s violations of, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which 
prohibit fraudulent conduct in connection with the purchase or sale of securities. 
                                                   
                                                 IV. 
 
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Perry’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
        A.         Perry cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future 
violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act, and Rule 
10b-5 thereunder. 
 
                                                  5
---------------------Page 6---------------------

  
 
   
              By the Commission. 
 
 
 
        Nancy M. Morris   
        Secretary 
 
 
 
 

 6
