---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                               
 UNITED                                STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                          the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 61998 / April 28, 2010 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3130 / April 28, 2010 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-13872 
                                            
                                             : 
                                           :       
                                           :        
       In the Matter of                    :      ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                             :    PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
     MARLIN R. BRINSKY, CPA,               :      102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                             :    PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
              Respondent.                  :      IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                       : 
                                                       : 
____________________________________ :              
                                                   
 
                                              I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Marlin 
R. Brinsky (“Respondent” or “Brinsky”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules  
of Practice.1 
             
                                                
                                                

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent  
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
              1.      Brinsky, age 53, is a certified public accountant licensed to practice in the  
State of Illinois as of March 2007.  He previously  was licensed to practice in that state in  
approximately 1979 until his license lapsed.  Brinsky was employed by Merdinger, Fruchter, Rosen 
& Corso, P.C. (later Merdinger, Fruchter, Rosen & Company, P.C.)(“MFRC”) as a senior 
accountant from September 2000 until December 2002.  In that capacity, he participated in MFRC’s 
audit and other engagements concerning <comp.>Exotics.com, Inc.</> (“Exotics.com”) in 2001. 
        
              2.      Exotics.com was, at all relevant times, a Nevada corporation with its  
principal place of business in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.  Exotics.com was engaged in 
the business of owning, operating, and licensing adult-oriented websites.  At all relevant times, 
Exotics.com’s common stock was registered with the Commission   pursuant to Section 12(g) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and was approved for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board. 
 
              3.      On April 21, 2010, a final judgment was entered against Brinsky, 
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Rule 2-02 of Regulation S-X in the civil 
action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Exotics.com, Inc., et. al, Civil Action 
Number 2:05-cv-00531-PMP-GWF, in the United States District Court for the District of Nevada.  
Brinsky was also ordered to pay a $20,000 civil money penalty. 
 
              4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Brinsky and 
others participated in a scheme that resulted in Exotics.com filing materially false and misleading 
financial statements in its Commission filings, including, among others, an amended current report 
on Form 8-K filed on September 24, 2001, a quarterly report on Form 10-QSB for the quarter 
ended <date.>September 30, 2001</>, and an annual report on Form 10-KSB for the fiscal year ended 
<date.>December 31, 2001</>.  The complaint further alleged that Brinsky and other members of the MFRC 
audit staff committed acts and/or omissions that caused them to become non-independent during 
audits of Exotics.com and caused audit reports issued by MFRC, among other things, to falsely 
state that the audits had been conducted by an independent auditor and in accordance with 
generally accepted auditing standards (“GAAS”).  The complaint also alleged that Brinsky 

                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

engaged in a number of improper accounting practices that caused Exotics.com’s financial 
statements to depart from generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). 
 
                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Brinsky’s Offer.  
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
       A.      Brinsky is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
       B.      After two years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the  
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the  
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                                1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
      
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                            (a) Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight     Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                       (b)    Respondent, or the registered   public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms  
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                (c)           Respondent has resolved all di  sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                       (d)    Respondent acknowledges      his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 
      
                                                 3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

         C.       The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume  
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                                       M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                                 

                                                              4
  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                             Service List  
 
        Rule 141 of the Commission's Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or another duly 
authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order Instituting Administrative 
Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and 
Imposing Remedial Sanctions ("Order"), on the Respondent and his legal agent. 
 
        The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to 
notice: 
 
Honorable Brenda P. Murray                              
Chief Administrative Law Judge                          
Securities and Exchange Commission  
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-2557                 
                                                   
Silvestre A. Fontes, Esq.                                    
Boston Regional Office                                           
Securities and Exchange Commission               
33 Arch Street, 23rd Floor                       
Boston, MA 02110                                    
                                                      
Mr. Marlin R. Brinsky                              
c/o Tyson E. Marshall, Esq. 
Morrison & Foerster LLP  
12531 High Bluff Drive, Suite 100  
San Diego, CA  92130                
                                                       
Tyson E. Marshall, Esq.  
Morrison & Foerster LLP  
12531 High Bluff Drive, Suite 100  
San Diego, CA  92130  
(Counsel for Marlin R. Brinsky) 
 

                                                   5
  
