---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                              Before the 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 77755 / May 2, 2016  
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3773 / May 2, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17240 
                                                      ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC   
                                                      ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE -AND-
                                                      DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
In the Matter of                                      SECTIONS 4C AND  21C OF THE 
                                                      SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
       MALONEBAILEY  , LLP, and                       AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
       JAY PHILLIP NORRIS          , CPA,            COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                                       
Respondent s.                                        
                                                                                          
 
 
 
                                                       

                                                    
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
MaloneBailey, LLP (“MaloneBailey”), and Jay Phillip Norris, CPA (“Norris”) (collectively, 
                                          1
“Respondents”) pursuant to Sections 4C     and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
                                                                                                      2
(“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) and 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  

                                                 
1
       Section 4C provides, in   relevant part, that:   
 
               The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, 
               to any person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in 
               any way, if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications 
               to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to have 
               engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully 
               violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the 
               sec urities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.  
                                                    
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                    II. 
 
        In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and except as provided herein in Section V with regard to Respondent Norris, which 
are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative and 
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing 
Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                                   III. 
 
        On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds that:  
 
        A.     SUMMARY 
             
        1.      These proceedings arise out of the Respondents’ audit of the financial statements of 
<comp.>Left Behind Games, Inc.</> (“LBG”), a penny-stock public company which sold religious themed 
video games, for LBG’s fiscal years ended March 31, 2010 and March 31, 2011.  Respondents’ 
audit report, dated August 3, 2011, was included in LBG’s Form 10-K filed August 4, 2011. 
         
        2.      Approximately 88% of LBG’s net revenues for its <date.>2011</> fiscal year resulted from 
purported <item.>sales</> of its religious themed video games to Lighthouse Distributors, Inc. (“Lighthouse”).  
In fact, these <item.>revenues</> were improperly recognized, and were the result of circular sham 
transactions between LBG and the principal of Lighthouse, Ronald Zaucha (“Zaucha”), a former 
consultant to LBG and close personal friend of LBG’s principal, Troy Lyndon (“Lyndon”).  As a 
result of the recognition of these phony revenues, LBG was purportedly profitable, for the first time 
in its history.  On September 24, 2013, the Commission sued Lyndon and Zaucha alleging 

                                                                                                                                                             
         
2
        Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that:   
 
                The Commission may       censure a person or    deny, temporarily or permanently, the 
                privilege of appearing or practicing before it . . . to any perso  n who is found . . . to 
                have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct.        
 
        Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that:  
 
                The Commission may       censure a person or    deny, temporarily or permanently, the 
                privilege of appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found…to 
                have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of any 
                provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
         

                                                    2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

violations of, among other provisions, the securities registration and antifraud provisions of Sections 
5 and 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”), and the antifraud provisions of 
Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and obtained permanent injunctions 
and other relief against them.  SEC v. Troy Lyndon and Ronald Zaucha, CV 13-00486 SOM-KSC 
(D. Hawaii).   
        
       3.      Respondents’ conduct in auditing LBG for fiscal year 2011 resulted in the violation 
of applicable professional standards constituting improper professional conduct.  Additionally, the 
conduct of Respondent MaloneBailey constituted willful violation of Regulation S-X Rule 2-
02(b)(1), and the conduct of Respondent Norris willfully aided and abetted and caused 
                                                           3
MaloneBailey’s violation of Regulation S-X Rule 2-02(b)(1).  
 
       B.     RESPONDENTS 
        
       4.      MaloneBailey, LLP is a public accounting firm registered with the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) which is based in Houston, Texas.  It 
specializes in auditing small public companies.  At all relevant times, MaloneBailey had 
approximately five audit partners.  It currently has seven audit partners. 
         
       5.      Jay Phillip Norris, CPA, age 51, was a partner of MaloneBailey from 2009 until 
December 2015 and is a certified public accountant licensed in the state of Texas.  He was also 
licensed in Oklahoma from August 6, 1999 until his license was canceled on June 13, 2002.  
During the time period relevant to this proceeding, Norris served as the engagement partner for the 
services MaloneBailey performed for LBG.  These services included audits of the financial 
statements of LBG for its fiscal years ended March 31, 2010 and March 31, 2011. 
 
       C.     FACTS 
 
               1.     The Audit Client and its Related Party, Zaucha 
 
       6.      Left Behind Games, Inc. d/b/a Inspired Media Entertainment was 
headquartered in Murrieta, California.  It was founded by Lyndon on December 31, 2001, and 
incorporated in Delaware on August 22, 2002.  LBG became a public company on February 7, 
2006.  LBG’s stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange 
Act, 15 U.S.C. § 78l(g).  During the relevant period, LBG’s stock traded on the OTCQB exchange 
under the ticker symbol “LFBG.”  LBG terminated all of its employees and closed its office at the 
end of 2011.  On January 13, 2014, an Initial Decision was issued in In the Matter of Left Behind 
Games, Inc., AP File No. 3-15522, revoking the registration of the securities of LBG based on 
LBG’s failure to timely file required periodic reports since it filed a Form 10-Q for the period 
ended September 30, 2011.  (Initial Decision Release No. 551.)  That decision became final on 
February 24, 2014.  (Exchange Act Release No. 71603.) 
 

                                                 
3
       A willful violation of the securities laws means merely “that the person charged with the 
duty knows what he is doing.”  Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000) (quoting 
Hughes v. SEC, 174 F.2d 969, 977 (D.C. Cir. 1949). 

                                                3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       7.     Between September 2008 and September 30, 2010, LBG hired Zaucha as a 
“consultant,” pursuant to three successive agreements, which provided that Zaucha would be 
compensated with LBG stock. 
        
       8.     The agreements provided that the shares Zaucha received were restricted, 
and could not be sold pursuant to SEC Rule 144 for six months.  Zaucha completed a 
“Seller’s Representation Letter” for a “NON-AFFILIATE.”  [Emphasis original.]  In the 
letter, Zaucha represented that he was not an “affiliate” of LBG.  Zaucha also stated that he 
was not a “promoter” of the issuer, LBG, and that the stock “has been owned and fully paid 
for by the undersigned in excess of one (1) year.”  Based on these representations, between 
November 9, 2009, and September 20, 2011, two attorneys issued at least 22 opinion letters 
addressed to LBG’s transfer agent opining that the LBG shares issued to Zaucha were 
permitted to be sold by Zaucha without registration, pursuant to Rule 144. 
 
       9.     Zaucha’s representations were false.  Zaucha in fact was an “affiliate” because he 
and LBG were both controlled by Lyndon.  Zaucha had virtually no source of funds except from 
the sale of LBG shares. 
        
       10.    Between August 4, 2009, and October 10, 2011, Zaucha sold over 1.74 billion LBG 
shares after the restrictive legends were removed, realizing over $4.6 million in proceeds.  The 
sales were made pursuant to Lyndon’s instructions, often in emails, regarding the prices at which 
to sell the shares, how much of the proceeds LBG, Lyndon and Zaucha would each receive, and at 
which brokerage firms Zaucha should open accounts.  Pursuant to instructions from Lyndon, 
Zaucha repaid $3,282,626 of these proceeds to LBG as purported “early sell fees” under the 
consulting agreements ($871,169), monies paid by Lighthouse for LBG products ($1,385,649), and 
other payments ($1,025,808); made net payments to Lyndon of $55,000; paid $5,000 to LBG’s 
auditor, MaloneBailey, and kept $1,278,165 for himself. 
 
       11.    The sham sales to Lighthouse constituted $1,385,649 in revenues reported by LBG 
for its fiscal year 2011 ended March 31, 2011.  These sales accounted for 88% of the $1,600,407 in 
net revenues LBG reported that year, as well as the vast majority of LBG’s reported $1,485,044 
increase in revenues over the prior year’s revenues of $115,363. 
        
              2.     MaloneBailey’s Audit of LBG for Fiscal Year 2011 
        
                      a.     MaloneBailey Solicits and Obtains LBG as a Client and Learns 
                             Shortly Thereafter that LBG May Have Engaged in Illegal 
                             Conduct and Was Under Investigation by the Commission 
        
       12.    On January 19, 2011, the PCAOB permanently revoked the registration of LBG’s 
then-auditor.  Norris contacted LBG when he received a notice that LBG’s auditor was 
deregistered by the PCAOB, and solicited LBG as a client.  LBG engaged MaloneBailey shortly 
thereafter. 
        
       13.    On January 26, 2011, Lyndon sent an email to Norris purporting to provide Norris 
with a “solid snapshot regarding our company.”  Although the email purported to disclose the 

                                               4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

company’s leadership, history, and corporate staff, including “Exclusive Contractor Staff,” 
Zaucha’s consulting arrangement with LBG and his role at the company were nowhere described.  
Lighthouse is described, however, as LBG’s largest client, but without any disclosure that Zaucha 
was its principal or in any way connected to it. 
        
       14.    Shortly after MaloneBailey was engaged, Respondents learned of the consulting 
arrangement that LBG had with Zaucha, and that Zaucha was compensated with LBG shares.  
Respondents also learned that Zaucha was giving cash back to LBG, purportedly because he sold 
“too many” of the LBG shares he received in compensation.  These payments were referred to, 
variously, as “early sell fees” and “penalties.” 
        
       15.    The Respondents viewed this transaction as unique because of the provision that 
Zaucha pay LBG “penalties” for selling too many LBG shares.  The Respondents also viewed the 
arrangement as a potentially illegal attempt to evade the federal securities laws, including the 
Commission Rule 144 prohibition against selling “restricted” shares.   
        
       16.    In questioning at least one of the two attorneys who wrote the opinion letters 
permitting removal of the Rule 144 restrictive legends from Zaucha’s shares, Norris learned that 
the attorney was unaware that Zaucha was giving cash back to LBG.  Norris was also unable to 
obtain an opinion from the company or its attorneys that Zaucha’s payment of cash “penalties” 
back to LBG was legal.  
        
       17.    Respondents were unaware of any documentation by Zaucha, such as invoices, of 
any services he provided to LBG.  Respondents understood that Zaucha’s consulting agreement 
was the only consulting agreement that resulted in money coming back to LBG. 
        
       18.    As a result of MaloneBailey’s determination that LBG had understated its expenses 
in previously filed financial statements, on February 15, 2011, LBG filed a Form 8-K current 
report announcing its restatement of its financial results previously reported in its Form 10-K for its 
fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, and its Forms 10-Q for its quarters ended June 30, 2009, 
September 30, 2009, December 31, 2009, June 30, 2010, and September 30, 2010.  LBG explained 
that the prior financial reports “should no longer be relied [upon] due to errors in the accounting for 
certain share-based compensation arrangements with consultants,” because LBG failed to 
recognize the fair value of the share-based awards in accordance with GAAP, resulting in an 
understatement of general and administrative expenses.  This restatement related primarily to the 
consulting arrangement that LBG had with Zaucha.   
        
       19.    After learning about the consulting arrangement, and Zaucha’s payments to LBG of 
“early-sell” fees or penalties derived from the proceeds of his sales of LBG stock, on February 22, 
2011, Norris included MaloneBailey’s now-retired founding partner on an email exchange 
regarding whether MaloneBailey should resign from the LBG engagement.  The founding partner 
stated in response, in part, that with regard to whether the firm should resign:  
        
               I view the email you sent to me from Troy Lyndon as both threatening and 
               confusing – he doesn’t know what he is doing.  His actions are highly illegal 
               and best case is his attorney talked him into it.  I really hate resigning (as 

                                                5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

               you know) – I regard such as a challenge.  However, I’d resign before 
               compromising where such a problem exists.  I haven’t read the disclosure 
               you proposed and so don’t have an opinion, but your situation sounds very 
               bleak. 
        
Norris responded: 
 
               I think we’re okay on the disclosure and [sic].  The only question is whether 
               this guy is a nut job we are ready to issue barring any intervention.  If you 
               don’t have a problem, then we should issue. 
 
The founding partner responded to Norris, copying MaloneBailey’s partner who had been the 
quality control partner for several years until about February 14, 2011, and another audit partner.  
The only MaloneBailey audit partner not included on the email chain was the engagement quality 
review partner assigned to the LBG audit who had joined the firm on February 14, 2011 as its new 
quality control partner.  The founding partner’s response stated: 
 
               This isn’t my job and you haven’t kept me informed.  Troy [Lyndon] isn’t 
               rational on this issue and the question is when and how he’ll get taken 
               down.  I request and assume you’ll have clear and explicit disclosures and 
               resign if not. 
        
       20.    Norris responded to all of the recipients:  “No Okay. Disregard my request.”  The 
engagement quality review partner, who had recently been hired by MaloneBailey, was unaware of 
any discussions regarding MaloneBailey resigning from the LBG engagement.  Moreover, the 
engagement quality review partner had limited experience in auditing microcap companies.   
 
       21.    Subsequently, on March 25, 2011, after consulting with MaloneBailey, LBG sent a 
letter to the Commission, purportedly pursuant to Section 10A of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. § 
78j-1, stating that “certain transactions between the Company and a former Consultant [Zaucha] 
between September 28, 2009 and June 29, 2010, resulting in $871,169 proceeds which were 
provided back to the Company as settlement regarding a contractual issue, may have constituted a 
[Securities Act] Section 5 violation. . . .” 
        
       22.    Norris subsequently learned that Zaucha was an ex-convict.   
        
       23.    On May 3, 2011, Commission staff served a subpoena concerning LBG on the 
founding partner in his capacity as custodian of records of MaloneBailey.  Norris became aware of 
the Commission investigation no later than May 4, 2011.  The engagement quality review partner 
became aware of the investigation no later than May 8, 2011, when he provided a written response 
to the Commission subpoena, copying Norris.   
        

                                                6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                     b.     LBG Engages in Sales to Lighthouse, Which Respondents 
                             Identify as Potential Sham Circular Transactions 
        
       24.    After the consulting arrangement between LBG and Zaucha ended, Lyndon and 
Zaucha came up with a new scheme, which was intended to generate purported LBG revenue.   
 
       25.    In December 2010, Zaucha formed Lighthouse, which purportedly “purchased” 
LBG product.  LBG and Lighthouse entered into a distribution agreement during the period 
MaloneBailey was questioning the payment of early-sell “penalties” by Zaucha to LBG.  
Specifically, pursuant to instructions by Lyndon in a February 8, 2011 email, and orally from 
Zaucha, in order to conceal Zaucha’s control over Lighthouse, including from MaloneBailey, a 
Lighthouse employee signed the agreement as the purported “general manager” of Lighthouse.  As 
a result, Zaucha’s control of Lighthouse was not disclosed.  The agreement was also backdated, 
stating that it was effective “as of” July 2010.  The Respondents never spoke with the employee 
who signed the document on behalf of Lighthouse.   
        
       26.    During LBG’s fiscal year 2011, Lighthouse “purchased” LBG product using 
$1,385,649 of Zaucha’s LBG stock sale proceeds, in sham roundtrip related party transactions. 
        
       27.    Lighthouse was, by far, LBG’s largest customer.  In the fiscal year ended March 31, 
2011, Lighthouse’s $1,385,649 in purchases were 88% of LBG’s $1,600,407 in net revenues, 
which LBG touted in its Form 10-K as an increase of $1,485,044 over its prior year’s revenues of 
$115,363. 
        
       28.    Rather than re-selling the LBG products, in most instances, Lighthouse distributed 
them for free.  That Lighthouse was giving away LBG product was not disclosed in LBG’s 
financial statements or its Forms 10-Q, 10-Q/A or 10-K, even though MaloneBailey’s manager 
assigned to the engagement was aware that Lighthouse was likely giving away at least some LBG 
product.   

                     c.     Respondents’ Audit Failures Regarding LBG’s Purported Sales 
                             to Lighthouse 
                   
                             i.      Lighthouse Materially Modifies a Third-Party Written 
                                    Confirmation that Respondents Sought and Respondents 
                                    Fail to Review it or Consider its Contents Consistent 
                                    with PCAOB Standards 
                              
       29.    Notwithstanding Lyndon’s and Zaucha’s attempts to conceal Zaucha’s ownership 
of Lighthouse, by at least March 27, 2011, MaloneBailey nevertheless did discover the relationship 
between Lighthouse and Zaucha.  Respondents did not inquire of Lyndon why he did not inform 
MaloneBailey that Zaucha owned and controlled Lighthouse. 
        
       30.    Once they discovered Zaucha’s role with Lighthouse, Respondents were concerned 
that Zaucha may have used the proceeds from his sales of LBG stock to fund Lighthouse’s 
purchases of LBG product in a transaction that merely consisted of a “circle of cash.”   
        

                                              7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

       31.    Norris was aware by at least May 5, 2011 that Zaucha was potentially a related 
party to LBG, notwithstanding that Lyndon had told him that Zaucha was not a related party, and 
Norris was further aware that he needed to determine whether Zaucha was, in fact, a related party. 
        
       32.    The only step that MaloneBailey took to determine whether Lighthouse was a real 
entity was that Norris reviewed its website, which contained a mission statement and a form for 
potential suppliers to complete.  The identity of Lighthouse’s principal, Zaucha, was not disclosed 
on the website.  Respondents did not attempt to obtain financial statements from Lighthouse.   
        
       33.    Respondents did not detect that Lighthouse was in the same building as LBG. 
 
       34.    Moreover, Respondents failed to detect that Lighthouse was not incorporated until 
December 2010, five months after the distribution agreement was purportedly entered into in July 
2010 and LBG’s sales to Lighthouse purportedly began.  Respondents also reviewed entries in 
LBG’s books purporting to represent sales to Lighthouse.  Those entries indicate sales beginning in 
July 2010, well before Zaucha incorporated Lighthouse in December 2010. 
        
       35.    Respondents determined that they did not have sufficient audit evidence to support 
the transaction between LBG and Lighthouse, and they therefore sought a written third-party 
confirmation from Lighthouse.  
        
       36.    Accordingly, on July 27, 2011, Norris caused MaloneBailey to send an email to 
Zaucha attaching a confirmation request Norris had written.  That request asked Zaucha to confirm 
that:   
        
       (1)    the sale and purchase transactions between Lighthouse Distributors 
               (“Lighthouse”) and Left Behind Games Inc. (“LBG”) were “real 
               transactions” whereby Lighthouse purchased and LBG sold copies of LBG 
               video games 
            
       (2)    the sale and purchase transactions were not in any way connected with the 
               consulting arrangement whereby Ron Zaucha performed consulting services 
               for LBG and received shares of LBG common stock 
            
       (3)    whether or not the proceeds from the sale of LBG’s stock were used to 
               purchase the video games from LBG [and] 
            
       (4)    there were no side agreements related to the consulting agreement or the 
               sale/purchase transactions[.]   
 
Prior to sending the request, Norris emailed two of MaloneBailey’s four partners, including the 
engagement quality review partner, advising them of the evidence obtained, his concerns over the 
nature of the relationship between Zaucha and LBG, and explaining that a consultant who had 
provided cash back to the company was also the owner of the company that was buying substantial 
amounts of LBG product and contributing a significant amount of the company’s revenue.  The 
only suggestion in response to the email was made by the engagement quality review partner, who 

                                                8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

suggested that Lighthouse should confirm there was no right of return.  This suggestion did not 
address, however, the adequacy of the confirmation for determining whether Lighthouse or Zaucha 
was a related party to LBG, or whether the sale of product by LBG to Lighthouse was part of a 
“circle of cash,” as suspected by Norris. 
        
       37.    On or about July 29, 2011, Zaucha transmitted to MaloneBailey a letter he signed 
on behalf of Lighthouse which confirmed each of the above points, except that rather than 
confirming the key point of whether the proceeds from the sale of LBG stock were used to 
purchase the video games from LBG, Zaucha merely stated that “[a]ll decisions to invest monies 
into my distribution company were independent from any sale of LBG common stock.”  No one at 
MaloneBailey inquired of Zaucha what he meant by this statement or why he altered the language 
provided to him by MaloneBailey in the original proposed confirmation letter. 
        
       38.    In particular, Norris did not discuss the confirmation response with anyone.  Nor 
did he notice that the confirmation was differently worded than his confirmation request.  Norris 
also never attempted to obtain access to Lighthouse’s financial statements to verify its source of 
funds for purchasing over $1.3 million of games from LBG, or whether Lighthouse ever generated 
any revenue. 
        
       39.    Notwithstanding that Zaucha had altered the wording of the confirmation and did 
not confirm that proceeds from the sale of LBG stock were not used to purchase the video games 
from LBG, MaloneBailey stated in its Engagement Completion Document, prepared by the audit 
manager and included in the audit work papers, that the confirmation “specifically” confirmed that 
Lighthouse’s sales to LBG were “completely unrelated” to the consulting arrangements and there 
were no side agreements “indicating that Ron Zaucha would use proceeds from sales of LBG stock 
to re-purchase games from the Company.”  
        
       40.    All of the representations Zaucha made were materially false.  As described above, 
the transaction between LBG and Lighthouse was, in fact, a “circle of cash” and a sham, as 
Respondents suspected.  Had Respondents known Zaucha’s representations were false, they would 
likely not have viewed the $1.38 million in sales to Lighthouse as legitimate revenue.  In fact, 
MaloneBailey likely would not have certified the financial statements and would have resigned if it 
had learned that Zaucha was transferring proceeds from his sale of LBG shares directly to Lyndon 
or LBG. 

                             ii.     Respondents Rely on LBG’s CEO’s Representation that 
                                     He Did Not Have the Necessary Information to Make a 
                                     Requested Management Representation  
                              
       41.    Norris caused MaloneBailey to request that Lyndon sign a management 
representation letter confirming, among other things, many of the same facts Respondents had 
asked Zaucha to confirm. 
        
       42.    Lyndon made various standard representations in the management representation 
letter, which he signed on August 3, 2011.  Lyndon’s representations included that the financial 
information was recorded consistent with GAAP and that there were no material transactions that 
had not been properly recorded, and that LBG management had no knowledge of any fraud 

                                               9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

affecting the company which involved management.  Additionally, Lyndon confirmed that 
transactions involving “related parties,” as defined by GAAP provision FASB ASC 850-10, were 
properly recorded or disclosed. 
 
       43.    Regarding LBG’s transactions with Lighthouse, Lyndon made the following 
specific representations in the August 3rd management representation letter:  (1) the sale and 
purchase transactions between Lighthouse and LBG were “real transactions whereby Lighthouse 
purchased and LBG sold copies of LBG video games”; (2) the sale and purchase transactions 
“were not in any way connected with the consulting arrangement whereby Ron Zaucha performed 
consulting services for LBG and received shares of LBG common stock”; and (3) “there were no 
side agreements related to the consulting agreement or the sale and purchase transactions.”  
 
       44.    Each of Lyndon’s representations was false and consequently the purported sales to 
Lighthouse should not have been recognized as revenue in accordance with GAAP.  These 
improperly recognized sales, constituting about 88% of LBG’s reported 2011 revenues, were 
material to LBG’s financial statements.  Moreover, when he signed the management representation 
letter, Lyndon removed the representation requested by the Respondents that the consulting fees 
paid by LBG to Zaucha were not a source of funds for Lighthouse’s purchases from LBG, falsely 
claiming that “I do not have access to the information that would be necessary to make a 
determination regarding the source of funds regarding Lighthouse’s purchases.”  
               
       45.    Upon MaloneBailey’s receipt on August 4, 2011, of Lyndon’s email making the 
above representation and attaching the signed management representation letter, a senior auditor on 
the engagement team inquired of the audit manager in an email “Is it OK that he took that line out 
of the rep letter?”  There is no record that the audit manager responded to this inquiry. 
        
       46.    Norris had requested that Lyndon make the specific representations regarding the 
transactions with Lighthouse because, in his view, revenue recognition of the Lighthouse 
purchases from LBG was dependent on the answers to some of the questions asked of Lyndon. 
Respondents nevertheless relied on the management representation letter provided by Lyndon and 
accepted Lyndon’s omission of the representation that the consulting fees paid by LBG were not a 
source of funds for Lighthouse’s purchases from LBG without taking further audit steps, 
notwithstanding that one of the engagement team members had specifically inquired whether 
omission of the representation from the letter was all right.  In particular, Respondents took no 
steps to obtain financial information from Lighthouse or its bank regarding its source of funds to 
purchase LBG products.   
 
                             iii.     Certain Language Proposed by Respondents for 
                                     Inclusion in the 10-K that Would Have Disclosed that the 
                                     True Source of Funds for Lighthouse to Purchase Games 
                                     from LBG was Zaucha’s LBG Stock Sale Proceeds, was 
                                     Not Included in the Form 10-K 
        
       47.    During the audit of LBG for fiscal year 2011 ended March 31, 2011, Respondents 
identified management override, revenue recognition and the consulting agreements with Zaucha 
including share-based compensation as audit risks requiring heightened scrutiny.  Respondents also 

                                              10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

identified the transactions between Lighthouse and LBG as warranting additional scrutiny because 
of the share-based compensation arrangement and consulting agreement that had existed between 
Zaucha and LBG. 
        
       48.    On or about July 29, 2011, Respondents presented Lyndon the following draft 
language as a proposed audit adjustment to be inserted into the footnotes to the financial statements 
contained in LBG’s Form 10-K.  The proposed language would have disclosed that Lighthouse 
had, in fact, purchased video games from LBG with proceeds from sales of LBG stock originally 
issued to Zaucha: 
            
              During the year ended March 31, 2011, the company recorded $1,385,649 
              of revenues from Lighthouse Distributors, Inc., a Company owned by 
              Consultant # 1.  Lighthouse Distributors, Inc. purchased the video games 
              from the Company with the proceeds from sales of the Company’s common 
              stock originally issued under the consulting arrangements described above.  
              These sales transactions were not related to the original consulting 
              agreements and were not contemplated at the time the consulting 
              agreements were entered into. 
            
[Emphasis added.]  Norris believed that it was appropriate to disclose these facts, if true, as part of 
the relationship between LBG and Zaucha in the Form 10-K.   
 
       49.    The Form 10-K was nevertheless filed with the Commission on August 4, 2011, 
without the italicized language, rendering the Form 10-K materially false and misleading.  Prior to 
the Form 10-K being filed, Respondents possessed a draft with Respondents’ proposed language 
clearly marked as deleted. 
 
                      d.     LBG Files a False and Misleading Form 10-K 
        
       50.    Among other results, LBG’s financial statements included in its Form 10-K 
reported net revenues of $1,600,407 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011, compared to 
$115,363 in restated net revenues for its fiscal year ended March 31, 2010.  These revenues 
included approximately $1,385,649 in revenues purportedly earned from sales to Lighthouse which 
were, in fact, the result of the sham transactions described above.  Additionally, the Form 10-K 
stated that LBG’s $1,600,407 in annual revenues “represented an increase in our revenues of 
$1,485,044,” and that “The revenue level increased primarily due to sales of $1,427,091 in the year 
ended March 31, 2011 without comparable sales in the prior fiscal year, primarily because such 
sales were to a new customer which focuses on distribution to non-profit organizations,” and that 
customer accounted for approximately 88% of LBG’s revenues. 
        
       51.    These reported revenue figures were false and misleading because they were 
generated mostly from sham transactions using the proceeds of the sale of Zaucha’s stock.  Also, 
the Form 10-K did not disclose that the sales to the distributor, Lighthouse, were sham transactions 
for which revenues were not in fact properly recognized. 

       52.    The Form 10-K failed to disclose that the transactions between LBG and 
Lighthouse were related party transactions.  Instead, the “Transactions with Related Persons” 

                                               11 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

portion of Item 13 of LBG’s Form 10-K, entitled “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, 
and Director Independence,” falsely stated “We have not entered into any arrangements which are 
considered transactions with related persons.”  Nor was the related party nature of the transactions 
disclosed anywhere else in the annual report, including in the financial statements and notes 
thereto. 
        
        53.   Notwithstanding that Norris was concerned by at least May 5, 2011 that Zaucha 
might be a related party, the only audit step Respondents took to determine if Zaucha was in fact a 
related party was to review an LBG stock ledger to determine whether Zaucha owned more than 
5% of LBG stock.  Although during the audit MaloneBailey transmitted a “Related Party 
Worksheet” to Lyndon which stated in part that related parties were defined as “affiliates,” 
Respondents had no discussions with Lyndon as to what constituted an “affiliate.”  Nor did 
Respondents discuss with Lyndon whether Lighthouse or Zaucha met another definition of “related 
party” included in the worksheet – “other parties with which the company may deal with if one 
party controls or can significantly influence management or operating policies of the other to an 
extent that one of the transacting parties might be prevented from fully pursuing its own separate 
interests.”  Instead, Respondents simply accepted Lyndon’s representation on the form he signed 
on or about July 13, 2011, that the number of transactions with related parties was “none.”  They 
did so even though they were aware that Lyndon represented to Norris in a March 28, 2011 email 
that Zaucha was not a related party merely “because he is not an officer, director, family member 
or 5% owner of the company,” and Norris knew that this definition of related party was too 
narrow. 
         
        54.   On or about November 9, 2011, Zaucha wired $5,000 to MaloneBailey in partial 
payment of LBG’s audit fee.  Norris was unaware that Zaucha paid part of LBG’s audit fee; had he 
known, it would have raised concerns in his mind that Zaucha was a related party.  MaloneBailey, 
however, had no internal controls that would cause the audit partner to be notified if someone other 
than the client is paying the audit fee.  This is so even though it is not uncommon for MaloneBailey 
clients to have “funding sources [that] are not traditional.”  

       55.    MaloneBailey’s audit report contained an opinion in which it represented that it had 
conducted its audit of LBG’s fiscal 2011 financial statements in accordance with standards of the 
PCAOB.  In fact, as set forth below, Respondents’ audit was not conducted in accordance with 
PCAOB standards. 

               3.     Respondents Engaged In Improper Professional Conduct 

       56.     In performing the audit of LBG for fiscal year 2011, the Respondents engaged in 
improper professional conduct that resulted in a violation of applicable professional standards, as 
set forth below. 
        
                      a.      Numerous “Red Flags” were Present, Indicating Heightened 
                              Scrutiny was Warranted 
        
       57.     Respondents identified revenue recognition as an area requiring heightened 
scrutiny, and further identified the sales to Lighthouse, which accounted for 88% of LBG’s 

                                               12 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

revenues, as potential related party transactions and/or circular sham transactions.  Numerous 
additional “red flags” were present, including: 
        
               a.      Early in the audit process, Respondents learned a number of facts which 
                      indicated that Lyndon had made misrepresentations and omissions of 
                      material fact to other professionals and that Respondents therefore could not 
                      rely on management representations, including that: (1) at least one of two 
                      attorneys who wrote the opinion letters that the restrictions on Zaucha’s 
                      shares should be lifted was unaware of LBG stock sale proceeds being paid 
                      back by Zaucha to LBG as purported “early sell” fees or penalties, and 
                      would not opine that the “penalties” were legal; (2) the attorney retained by 
                      LBG as an independent counsel to conduct an internal investigation 
                      resigned shortly after being hired by LBG, prior to Respondents 
                      commencing the audit. 
        
               b.      Respondents also learned early in the audit process facts which indicated 
                      that Lyndon had made misrepresentations and omissions to the Respondents 
                      themselves, including that: (1) Lyndon failed to disclose or identify Zaucha 
                      as a major contractor, or explain his relationship to Lighthouse, in his 
                      January 26, 2011 email to Norris describing the company; and (2) in early 
                      February 2011, Lyndon provided a distribution agreement between LBG 
                      and Lighthouse which did not identify Zaucha as its principal, a fact 
                      Respondents learned during the course of the audit. 
        
               c.      Respondents learned in May 2011 that the Commission was conducting an 
                      investigation of LBG. 
        
               d.      The consulting agreement with Zaucha was the only consulting agreement 
                      LBG had where monies were paid back to LBG by the consultant. 
        
               e.      Zaucha was an ex-convict, a fact which Norris learned during the course of 
                      the audit. 
        
               f.      There was little documentation supporting the sales by LBG to Lighthouse. 
        
               g.      Lyndon and Zaucha altered language proposed by Respondents for 
                      inclusion in three major documents regarding Lighthouse’s source of funds 
                      to purchase LBG products: (i) the third-party confirmation which was to be 
                      signed by Zaucha on behalf of Lighthouse; (ii) the management 
                      representation letter signed by Lyndon; and (iii) LBG’s Form 10-K. 
                               

                                               13 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

                      b.      Respondents Violated Applicable Professional Standards 
                       
                              i.      Respondents Failed to Act with Due Professional Care or 
                                      Exercise Professional Skepticism 
                       
       58.    PCAOB standards require that “[d]ue professional care is to be exercised in the 
performance of the audit and the preparation of the report.”  AU 150.  Additionally, “[d]ue 
professional care requires the auditor to exercise professional skepticism.  Professional skepticism 
is an attitude that includes a questioning mind and a critical assessment of audit evidence.  The 
auditor uses the knowledge, skill, and ability called for by the profession of public accounting to 
diligently perform, in good faith and with integrity, the gathering and objective evaluation of 
evidence.”  AU 230.07.  Furthermore, “[i]n exercising professional skepticism, the auditor should 
not be satisfied with less than persuasive evidence because of a belief that management is honest.”  
AU 230.09.  Exercise of due professional care also requires that an auditor obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by error or fraud.  AU 230.10.  PCAOB standard AU 230.12 also provides that 
“Characteristics of fraud include (a) concealment through collusion among management. . . or 
third parties; (b) withheld, misrepresented, or falsified documentation; and (c) the ability of 
management to override or instruct others to override what otherwise appears to be effective 
controls.” 
        
       59.    Respondents failed to act with due professional care because, in spite of the 
materiality of the revenue from Lighthouse – it was 88% of LBG’s total revenue, representing a 
1,287% revenue increase over the prior year – and the many “red flags” presented that neither LBG 
management nor Lighthouse’s principal, Zaucha were, in fact, being truthful, Respondents 
nevertheless accepted a confirmation, management representation letter, and Form 10-K which did 
not make the representations they themselves had requested regarding Lighthouse’s source of 
funds to purchase LBG product.  Respondents accepted the deficient documentation as adequate 
even after they themselves: (1) identified revenue recognition as an area requiring heightened 
scrutiny because of the risk of fraud and (2) identified Zaucha as a potential related party.  
        
       60.    Moreover, all three “characteristics of fraud” described in AU 230.12 were present.  
Respondents were: (1) aware of the potential for collusion between management (Lyndon) and 
third party Zaucha; (2) presented with documentation that withheld key representations 
Respondents themselves had sought, specifically the confirmation from Lighthouse, the 
management representation letter and the Form 10-K; and (3) aware that LBG had ineffective 
internal controls over financial reporting, as disclosed in LBG’s Form 10-K. 
        
       61.    Additionally, Respondents detected possible illegal acts by LBG, as evidenced by 
large payments by LBG for unspecified services to a consultant, Zaucha, and the fact that the 
Commission was conducting an investigation of LBG.  AU 317.09.  Although Respondents did 
identify LBG’s illegal acts to the extent that they caused LBG to issue a letter to the Commission 
purportedly pursuant to Section 10A of the Exchange Act, and considered whether other similar 
transactions or events may have occurred, Respondents failed to act with due care in that they 
failed to apply adequate procedures to identify potential additional illegal acts, as required by AU 
317.11.  Nor did Respondents consider the implications of LBG’s prior illegal acts in relation to 

                                                14 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

other aspects of the audit.  Among other things, Respondents failed to consider the reliability of 
representations by management, as required by AU 317.16, in light of “the relationship of the 
perpetration and concealment, if any, of the illegal act to specific control procedures and the level 
of management or employees involved.”  In particular, Respondents were aware that Lyndon, 
LBG’s CEO, had failed to disclose Zaucha’s role as a consultant when initially describing major 
company contractors, and had failed to disclose Zaucha’s relationship to Lighthouse.  Respondents 
nevertheless relied on Lyndon’s representations in the management representation letter and Form 
10-K, and Zaucha’s representations in the confirmation.  Moreover, Respondents were aware that 
LBG had disclosed that its internal control over financial reporting was ineffective. 
                       
                              ii.     Respondents Failed to Obtain Sufficient Competent 
                                     Evidence 
                       
       62.    The PCAOB standards require that an auditor obtain sufficient competent evidential 
matter concerning the assertions in an issuer’s financial statements, and state that an auditor’s 
substantive procedures “must include reconciling the financial statements to the [underlying] 
accounting records.” AU 326.19.   
        
       63.    Respondents did not obtain sufficient evidential matter concerning the sales by 
LBG to Lighthouse.  In particular, because there was little or no underlying documentation 
supporting these sales, Respondents viewed a confirmation from Zaucha as essential, but then 
failed to obtain a confirmation which, as Respondents requested, confirmed whether the source of 
funds for Lighthouse to make the purchases was proceeds from Zaucha’s sales of LBG stock. 

                              iii.     Respondents Failed to Evaluate the Confirmation 
                                     Received from Lighthouse 
        
       64.    The PCAOB standards require that “the auditor should evaluate the combined 
evidence provided by the confirmations and the alternative procedures to determine whether 
sufficient evidence has been obtained about all the applicable financial statement assertions.”  AU 
330.33.  In particular, the auditor should consider: (a) the reliability of the confirmation; (b) the 
nature of any exceptions; (c) the evidence provided by other procedures and (d) whether additional 
evidence is needed.  AU 330.33.   
        
       65.    Respondents failed to consider that the confirmation provided by Lighthouse was 
differently worded from the confirmation they requested, in that the confirmation provided did not 
clearly state whether Lighthouse’s source of funds for the purchases of LBG products was, in fact, 
the proceeds from Zaucha’s LBG stock sales.  They further failed to consider that the same 
omission was made by Lyndon from the management representation letter he signed on behalf of 
LBG. 
        
                              iv.     Respondents Improperly Relied on Management 
                                     Representations 
                               
       66.    PCAOB standards require that the independent auditor obtain written 
representations from management as part of an audit, and provide guidance concerning the 

                                               15 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

representations to be obtained.  AU Section 333.01.  Among other things, management’s refusal to 
furnish a written representation constitutes a limitation on the scope of the audit.  AU 333.13. 
        
       67.    Respondents failed to consider whether Lyndon’s purported inability to furnish a 
written representation that Zaucha’s LBG stock sale proceeds did not constitute a source of funds 
for Lighthouse to purchase LBG products was a limitation on the scope of the audit.  Instead, they 
simply relied on Lyndon’s representation that he did not have access to information regarding the 
source of funds used by Lighthouse to make the purchases.  This failure was significant because 
Zaucha’s similar failure to explicitly confirm that the sales proceeds were not a source of funds 
meant that Respondents had no evidence confirming that LBG’s sales to Lighthouse were not 
circular sham transactions, as Respondents suspected. 
        
                              v.      Respondents Failed to Properly Audit the Related Party 
                                      Transactions Between LBG and Zaucha and Lighthouse 
        
       68.    PCAOB standards require that an auditor seek to identify related party relationships 
and transactions and to satisfy himself concerning the required financial statement accounting and 
disclosure.  AU 334.01.  The standards caution that “[t]he auditor should . . . be aware of the 
possibility that transactions with related parties may have been motivated solely, or in large 
measure” by certain conditions, including lack of sufficient working capital to continue the 
business, and dependence on a single or relatively few customers or transactions for the continuing 
success of the company.  AU 334.06. 
        
       69.    Although Respondents identified the transactions with Lighthouse as potential 
related party transactions, they failed to take adequate steps and gather sufficient competent 
evidence to determine the true nature of these transactions and ensure their disclosure.  In 
particular, the only audit step Respondents took was to ask Lyndon to complete and sign a form 
identifying related parties.  Lyndon identified no related parties.  PCAOB standards provide that, 
when necessary to fully understand a particular transaction, certain additional procedures should be 
considered, including confirming the transaction amount and terms, inspecting evidence in 
possession of the other party to the transaction, and confirming or discussing significant 
information with intermediaries, such as banks, to obtain a better understanding of the transaction.  
AU 334.10.  In this case, the only step Respondents took was to prepare and transmit a 
confirmation request to Lighthouse, which they failed to detect was materially modified by Zaucha 
in his confirmation response.  Notwithstanding that Zaucha had modified the key portion of the 
confirmation so that it did not state whether the source of Lighthouse’s funds to purchase LBG 
product was Zaucha’s LBG stock sale proceeds, Respondents did not seek bank or other records to 
determine Lighthouse’s source of funds. 
        
                              vi.     Respondents Failed to Follow PCAOB Reporting 
                                      Standards 
                               
       70.    PCAOB standards require that the auditor can determine that he or she is able to 
express an unqualified opinion only if the audit has been conducted in accordance with generally 
accepted auditing standards and the auditor has been able to apply all the procedures the auditor 
considers necessary in the circumstances.  AU 508.22.  Restrictions on the scope of the audit, 

                                                16 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

whether imposed by the client or by circumstances, including the inability to obtain sufficient 
competent evidential matter, or an inadequacy in the accounting records, may require the auditor to 
qualify or disclaim an opinion.  AU 508.22. 
        
       71.    Respondents failed to properly qualify or disclaim an opinion notwithstanding their 
inability to gather sufficient competent evidence that the funds used by Lighthouse to purchase 
LBG product in transactions constituting 88% of LBG’s net revenue did not consist of proceeds 
from Zaucha’s stock sales.   

                              vii.    Respondent MaloneBailey Failed to Comply with 
                                     PCAOB Quality Control Standards 
 
       72.    PCAOB standards require that each CPA firm have a system of quality control for 
its auditing practice.  QC 20.01.  Among other requirements, policies and procedures should be 
established for deciding whether to accept or continue a client relationship and whether to perform 
a specific engagement for that client.  QC 20.14.  “Such policies and procedures should provide the 
firm with reasonable assurance that the likelihood of association with a client whose management 
lacks integrity is minimized.”  QC 20.14.  Such policies and procedures should also provide 
reasonable assurance that the audit firm appropriately considers the risks associated with providing 
professional services in the particular circumstances.  QC 20.15(b). 

       73.    MaloneBailey did not have procedures that provided reasonable assurance that 
minimized the likelihood of association with a client whose management lacked integrity, 
particularly where the client’s prior audit firm had had its PCAOB registration revoked.   

       74.    MaloneBailey’s lack of adequate quality control procedures is also evident from the 
email chain between Norris, MaloneBailey’s founding partner, and every other MaloneBailey audit 
partner except the engagement quality review partner.  PCAOB standards require that policies and 
procedures be established to provide reasonable assurance that audit personnel consult with 
individuals within or outside the firm when appropriate, including when dealing with complex, 
unusual or unfamiliar issues.  QC 20.19.  Although Norris attempted to consult with the founding 
partner regarding whether or not to resign from the LBG engagement, and the founding partner 
specifically stated that what Lyndon was doing was “highly illegal,” the founding partner left it to 
Norris to decide whether to resign, while appearing to in fact discourage resignation, thus 
undermining the attempt by Norris to consult consistent with quality control standards.  Norris in 
fact did then tell his partners to “Disregard my request” for advice.   

       75.    MaloneBailey also failed to prepare appropriate documentation to demonstrate 
compliance with any policies and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that the 
likelihood of association with a client whose management lacks integrity is minimized, as required 
by PCAOB standards.  QC 20.25.  MaloneBailey failed to document the above email 
communications in the work papers.  Accordingly, the engagement quality review partner was 
unaware that resignation from the engagement had ever been considered.   

       76.    MaloneBailey also did not have monitoring procedures in place which would have 
enabled it to obtain reasonable assurance that its system of quality control was effective, as 
required by PCAOB standards.  QC 30.03.  Among other things, MaloneBailey did not have 

                                               17 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

procedures which included analysis and assessment of decisions related to acceptance and 
continuance of client relationships and engagements.  QC 30.03. 

       77.    Finally, the firm’s procedures shielded the engagement partner from knowledge of 
who was paying the client’s audit fee, even though, as Norris knew, MaloneBailey’s clients often 
had “funding sources [that] are not traditional.”  As explained above, Lighthouse paid part of 
LBG’s audit fee.  Had Norris been aware of this fact, it would have raised concerns in his mind 
about the relationship of LBG and Lighthouse. 

               4.     MaloneBailey Violated Regulation S-X Rule 2-02(b)(1) and Norris 
                      Willfully Aided and Abetted and Caused MaloneBailey’s Violation of 
                      Rule 2-02(b)(1) 
        
       78.    Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X requires an accountant’s report to state whether 
the audit was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.  “Thus, an auditor 
violates Regulation S-X Rule 2-02(b)(1) if it issues a report stating that it had conducted its audit in 
accordance with PCAOB Standards when it had not.”  See In re Andrew Sims, CPA, Rel. No. 34-
59584, AAER No. 2950 (Mar. 17, 2009). 
        
       79.    As a result of the conduct described above, MaloneBailey violated Rule 2-02(b)(1) 
of Regulation S-X by issuing an audit report stating that it had conducted its audit in accordance 
with PCAOB Standards when it had not, and Norris willfully aided and abetted and caused 
MaloneBailey’s violation of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X. 
        
       D.     FINDINGS 
 
       80.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that the Respondents engaged in 
improper professional conduct within the meaning of Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and 
Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
        
       81.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that MaloneBailey willfully violated 
and Norris willfully aided and abetted and caused MaloneBailey’s violation of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of 
Regulation S-X within the meaning of Section 4C(a)(3) of the Exchange Act and Rule 
102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 

       E.     UNDERTAKINGS 
        
       82.    Review of Written Policies and Procedures.  MaloneBailey shall, within sixty 
(60) days after the entry of this Order, evaluate its existing audit and interim review written 
policies and procedures and shall make such revisions as may be necessary in order to adopt, 
implement, and enforce written policies and procedures to provide reasonable assurance that 
MaloneBailey’s audits are conducted in compliance with (a) the relevant Commission regulations 
and (b) audit standards relevant to appearing and practicing before the Commission.  MaloneBailey 
shall review and revise as necessary its written policies and procedures in the following areas: (i) 
client and engagement acceptance and client retention; (ii) contact with and requests for 
information from prior auditors; (iii) performing proper risk assessment; (iv) obtaining sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence; (v) third-party confirmations; (vi) work paper review and signoff by 

                                               18 
---------------------Page 19---------------------

engagement partners and engagement quality reviewers; (vii) related-party transactions and 
relationships; (viii) detection of fraud; (ix) scrutiny of management representations; (x) exercise of 
due care; and (xi) documentation in audit work papers of consultations among MaloneBailey audit 
personnel concerning any of the above areas with regard to any audit MaloneBailey conducts, 
including personnel not specifically assigned to the audit who the audit team formally or 
informally consults regarding any of the above issues. 
        
       83.    Retention of an Independent Consultant.  MaloneBailey shall retain, within sixty 
(60) days after entry of this Order, an independent consultant (“Independent Consultant”), not 
unacceptable to the Commission staff.  MaloneBailey will require the Independent Consultant to 
review and evaluate the audit and interim review policies and procedures of MaloneBailey 
including but not limited to those set forth in paragraph 82 above.  MaloneBailey will require that 
the Independent Consultant’s review and evaluation assess the foregoing areas to determine 
whether MaloneBailey’s policies and procedures are adequate and sufficient to ensure compliance 
with (a) the relevant Commission regulations and (b) audit standards relevant to appearing and 
practicing before the Commission.  MaloneBailey will cooperate fully with the Independent 
Consultant and will provide reasonable access to firm personnel, information, and records as the 
Independent Consultant may reasonably request for the Independent Consultant’s reviews and 
evaluations.  MaloneBailey will provide the Commission staff a copy of the engagement letter 
detailing the scope of the Independent Consultant’s responsibilities. 
        
       84.    Within ninety (90) days of being retained, MaloneBailey will require the 
Independent Consultant to issue a report (“Report”) to MaloneBailey:  (a) summarizing the 
Independent Consultant’s review and evaluation; and (b) making recommendations, where 
appropriate, reasonably designed to ensure that audits conducted by MaloneBailey comply with 
Commission regulations and relevant audit standards.  At MaloneBailey’s direction, the 
Independent Consultant shall provide a copy of the Report to the Commission staff when the 
Report is issued. 
        
       85.    MaloneBailey shall adopt, as soon as practicable, all recommendations of the 
Independent Consultant in the Report.  Provided, however, that within thirty (30) days of issuance 
of the Report, MaloneBailey may advise the Independent Consultant in writing of any 
recommendation that it considers to be unnecessary, outside the scope of this Order, unduly 
burdensome, or impractical.  MaloneBailey need not adopt any such recommendation at that time, 
but instead may propose in writing to the Independent Consultant and the Commission staff an 
alternative policy or procedure designed to achieve the same objective or purpose.  MaloneBailey 
and the Independent Consultant shall engage in good-faith negotiations in an effort to reach 
agreement on any recommendations objected to by MaloneBailey.  In the event that the 
Independent Consultant and MaloneBailey are unable to agree on an alternative proposal within 
thirty (30) days, MaloneBailey shall abide by the determinations of the Independent Consultant. 
        
       86.    Undertakings Regarding Audit Training.  MaloneBailey shall require each audit 
and attest professional to complete successfully, within 180 days of entry of this Order:  
        
       a.      A Minimum of 24 Hours of Audit-Related Training. The audit-related training 
       requirement shall cover the topics specified in paragraph 82 above, with no less than four 

                                               19 
---------------------Page 20---------------------

       hours being devoted to related party identification and testing.  The audit-related training 
       requirement may be fulfilled by completing course(s) conducted in accordance with the 
       applicable state boards of accountancy. 
        
       b.      A Minimum of Eight (8) Hours of Fraud-Detection Training.  The training shall 
       include techniques in detecting and responding to possible fraud in the course of public 
       company audits by audit clients or by employees, officers or directors of audit clients. 
        
       87.    To ensure the independence of the Independent Consultant, MaloneBailey: (1) shall 
not have the authority to terminate the Independent Consultant or substitute another independent 
compliance consultant for the initial Independent Consultant, without the prior written approval of 
the Commission staff; and (2) shall compensate the Independent Consultant and persons engaged 
to assist the Independent Consultant for services rendered pursuant to this Order at their reasonable 
and customary rates.  
        
       88.    MaloneBailey shall require the Independent Consultant to enter into an agreement 
that provides that for the period of engagement and for a period of two years from completion of 
the engagement, the Independent Consultant shall not enter into any employment, consultant, 
attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with MaloneBailey, or any of its present 
or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity.  The 
agreement will also provide that the Independent Consultant will require that any firm with which 
he/she is affiliated or of which he/she is a member, and any person engaged to assist the 
Independent Consultant in performance of his/her duties under this Order shall not, without prior 
written consent of the Commission’s Los Angeles Regional Office, enter into any employment, 
consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with MaloneBailey, or any of 
its present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity as 
such for the period of the engagement and for a period of two years after the engagement.  
        
       89.    Provision of a Copy of this Order to New Public Company Audit Clients.  
MaloneBailey undertakes that it shall forthwith provide a copy of this Order to any new public 
company audit client which engages it between the date this Order is issued and the date that the 
Independent Consultant certifies in writing that the undertakings discussed herein have been 
completed to the satisfaction of the Independent Consultant.  
        
       90.    Certification of Compliance.  MaloneBailey shall certify, in writing, compliance 
with the undertakings set forth above.  The certification shall identify the undertakings, provide 
written evidence of compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient 
to demonstrate compliance, including the certification by the Independent Consultant described 
above in paragraph 89.  The Commission staff may make reasonable requests for further evidence 
of compliance, and Respondent agrees to provide such evidence.  The certification and supporting 
material shall be submitted to Karen Matteson, Senior Trial Counsel, Los Angeles Regional Office, 
with a copy to the Office of Chief Counsel of the Enforcement Division, no later than sixty (60) 
days from the date of the completion of the undertakings.   
                               

                                                20 
---------------------Page 21---------------------

                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.     MaloneBailey shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
any future violations of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X. 
                
       B.     MaloneBailey is censured. 
        
       C.     MaloneBailey shall comply with the undertakings set forth in Section III.E. above. 
        
       D.     Norris shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X. 
        
       E.     Norris is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant.   
        
       F.     After three years from the date of this order, Respondent Norris may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief 
Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
 
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
                      review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with 
                      the Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                      Respondent’s work in his practice before the Commission will be 
                      reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
                      for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he 
                      practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
                      Commission that: 
      
                      (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
                              associated, is registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the 
                              Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be 
                              effective; 
 
                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
                              is associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB and that 
                              inspection did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in 
                              the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
                              indicate that the respondent will not receive appropriate 
                              supervision; 

                                                21 
---------------------Page 22---------------------

                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the PCAOB, 
                              and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions 
                              imposed by the PCAOB (other than reinstatement by the 
                              Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
                              Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an 
                              independent accountant, to comply with all requirements of the 
                              Commission and the PCAOB, including, but not limited to, all 
                              requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring 
                              partner reviews and quality control standards.   
 
       G.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent Norris to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and 
he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  
However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission 
will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include 
consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to 
Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice 
before the Commission. 
        
       H.     MaloneBailey shall, within 14 days of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement of 
$54,000 and prejudgment interest of $7,519.35, totaling $61,519.35, to the Securities and 
Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to 
Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue 
pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600. 
        
       I.      MaloneBailey shall, within 14 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money 
penalty in the amount of $100,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the 
general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If timely 
payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717.   
        
       J.      Respondent Norris shall, within 14 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil 
money penalty in the amount of $10,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer 
to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If 
timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717.   
        
       K.     Payments ordered in paragraphs H through J above must be made in one of the 
following ways:   
 
               (1)    Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                      will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
                
               (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
                

                                               22 
---------------------Page 23---------------------

               (3)     Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
                      Enterprise Services Center 
                      Accounts Receivable Branch 
                      HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                      6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                      Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying the 
Respondent by name as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these 
proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Karen Matteson, 
Senior Trial Counsel, Los Angeles Regional Office, Securities and Exchange Commission, 444 
South Flower Street, Suite 900, Los Angeles, CA 90071.   
 
       L.      Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be 
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To 
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that in any Related Investor 
Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or reduction of 
any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondents’ payment of a civil 
penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”).  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a 
Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that they shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order 
granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount of 
the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be 
deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil 
penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” 
means a private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more 
investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the 
Commission in this proceeding. 
 
                                                V. 

       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. § 523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by 
Respondent Norris, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or 
other amounts due by Respondent Norris under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent 
order, decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the 
violation by Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such 
laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. § 523(a)(19). 

 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                     Brent J. Fields 
                                                     Secretary 

                                                23 
