---------------------Page 1---------------------

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17227 
 
SEC Announces Settlement with Cabela’s and its CFO for        Misleading Statements in 
Commission Filings and Earnings Releases 
 
April 26, 2016 – The Securities and Exchange Commission today  announced that outdoor 
recreation retailer <comp.>Cabela’s Incorporated</> and its chief financial officer agreed to settle charges 
that investors were misled by a key financial metric highlighted in Cabela’s Commission filings 
and earnings releases to explain the company’s profitability.   
 
Specifically, the Commission found that  Cabela’s calculation of the metric it called merchandise 
gross margin percentage erroneously  included promotional fees received each quarter from its 
wholly-owned bank subsidiary that issues the Cabela’s CLUB Visa Card.  Generally accepted 
accounting principles (GAAP) require s companies to eliminate such intercompany payments in 
preparing their consolidated financial statements.  Cabela’s failure to eliminate the promotional 
fees in consolidation resulted in an understatement of the company’s merchandise <item.>costs</> and an 
inflated merchandise <item.>gross margin</> percentage touted to investors in periodic filings and quarterly 
earnings releases in <date.>2012</>.  Cabela’s periodic filings incorrectly stated, “All intercompany 
accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.”  Cabela’s did not disclose the 
material impact of the promotions fee on the metric in its description of the reasons for the year-
over-year increase in merchandise gross margin percentage.  Because of the error in 
consolidation and the lack of disclosure, investors were not aware that an intercompany payment 
was responsible for a material part of the improvement in the key financial metric.  
 
Cabela’s agreed to pay a $1 million penalty.  CFO Ralph W. Castner agreed to pay a $50,000 
penalty to settle charges that he caused the failure to disclose the material positive impact of the 
intercompany payment.   
 
According to the SEC’s order instituting a settled administrative proceeding, Cabela’s also failed 
to account properly for several other items as required under GAAP in its financial statements 
for the third quarter of 2012, increasing its quarterly net income by nearly 5 percent. 
The SEC’s order finds that Cabela’s violated the reporting, books and records, and internal 
accounting controls provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and Castner caused 
Cabela’s violations related to the intercompany payment.  Cabela’s and Castner neither admit nor 
deny the findings. 
The SEC’s investigation was conducted by Patricia E. Foley, Daniel M. Konosky, and Mary S. 
Brady.  The case was supervised by Thomas J. Krysa and litigation assistance was provided by 
Gregory Kasper. 
 
See also:   SEC Order  
 
