---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                      the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 8850 / September 27, 2007 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2729 / September 27, 2007 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12842 

In the Matter of                            ORDER INSTITUTING  
                                            CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS, 
      ROBERT C. DEAN                         MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                             REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A 
Respondent.                                  CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
                                             PURSUANT TO SECTION 8A OF THE 
                                             SECURITIES ACT OF 1933  

                                          I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, institu ted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities of 
1933 (“Securities Act”) against Robert C. Dean (“Dean” or “Respondent”). 

                                         II. 

      In anticipation of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer of Settlement to 
the Commission (herein “Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisd  iction over hi m and the subject matter of thes  e 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings, Making  Findings, and I mposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-
Desist Order Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Order”), as set forth below.   
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 

                                          Summary

  This             matter concerns Respondent’s role in altering the method by which the <comp.>Federal 
Home Loan Mortgage Corpora tion</> (“Freddie Mac” or “Company” ) valued certai n derivatives 
known as swaptions at year-end for its fiscal year <date.>2000</>.  As a result of the change in methodology, 
Freddie Mac issued materially false and misleading financial statements. 

                                         Respondent 

       1.     Robert C. Dean, age 42, was a Vice President of Freddie Mac from February 1998 
through June 2000 and a Senior Vice President of the Company from June 2000 through October 
2003, when he resigned from the  Company.  His duties included work in Freddie Ma c’s Market 
Risk Oversight department. 

                                     Other Relevant Entities 

       2.     Freddie Mac, was ch artered by Congress in 1970 by the      Federal Hom e Loan 
Mortgage Corporation Act (“Act”) .  Its princi pal place of business is in McLean, Virginia. 
Congress created Freddie Mac to   provide stability in the seco   ndary m arket f or residential 
mortgages by increasing the liquidity of mortgage investments and improving the distribution of 
investment capital available for residential mortgage financing. 

                                         Background 

       3.     In June 1998, t  he Financial Accounti ng Standards Boar d (“FASB”)  released 
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 (“SFAS 133”), which related to accounting 
for derivative instruments  and hedging activities.   Derivatives are financial instruments, such as 
options or futures contracts, whose value depends on the value of another “underlying” security or 
asset.  Financial companies such as Freddie Mac frequently use derivatives to manage <item.>interest rate</> 
and other risk.   SFAS 133 provi ded generally  that, commencing January 1, 2001, holders of 
derivatives must acc ount for s uch assets at fai r value.   SFAS 133 also set out detailed rules 
concerning when a company could use hedge accounting to account for the changes in the value of 
a derivative as hedging the change  in the fair valu e or fut ure cash flows of a he dged asset or 
liability.  The requirements of SFAS 133 represen ted a signif icant change from the accounting 
practices required by GAAP before SFAS 133 was issued.  

      4.      For Freddie Mac, a ma jor holder of de rivatives subject to SFAS 133, the ne  w 
standard required the Company to revalue and “  mark to market” (i.e ., report at actual quoted 
market prices or esti mated m arket value) its portfolio of derivatives   every reporting period. 
Changes in the fair value of c ertain derivatives were required by SFAS 133 to be r  ecorded as 
income or loss on the Company’s income statement. 

                                               2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

      5.      Absent action by Freddie Mac, the adoption of SFAS 133 would have re sulted in 
the Company reporting a large one-time gain effective January 1, 2001, because the fair value of its 
derivatives portfolio greatly exceeded the book value and, thereafter, it would have been required 
to mark to market certa in derivatives, thereby introducing a ne w c omponent of volatility that 
complicated the Company’s ability to maintain steady and predictable reported earnings. 

                       Changes in the Methodology for Valuing Swaptions 

       6.     Consistent with the Company’s general policy of reporting steady a nd predictable 
earnings growth, the Company reacted to SFAS 133 by setting a goal to minimize the transitional 
effects of SFAS 133 – i.e., the transition gain that would be reported effective January 1, 2001.  On 
December 12, 2000, several days after brainstorming alternative ways to reduce the transition gain, 
Respondent suggested that the Company coul d record a lower valuation – and thus reduce its 
<item.>transition gain</> – if it altered the method by which it valued its swaptions.  Beginning on or about 
December 22, 2000, in a series of me moranda written by or in consultation with Respondent, the 
Company undertook to revise its methodology for valuing its swaptions portfolio, incorporating the 
unproven premise that prevailing market prices were not indicative of where the Compa ny could 
conduct transactions in the swaptions market. 

       7.     On January 2, 2 001, the Company for mally adopted a revised methodology for 
valuing swaptions.  The new methodology – which the Company used to calculate the fair value 
that was reported in its year-end financial statements – used volatility values from November 20, 
2000, a date six wee ks prior to  January 1, 2001.   This contributed to t he Company’s swaptions 
portfolio being valued approximately $731 million less than it would have been had the Company 
used current market implied volatilities, i.e., values from December 29, 2000, the last business day 
of the year.   The Company premised its use of November 20 pric ing data on (i) the m arket for 
swaptions purportedly being illiquid as of December 29, 2000 to a degree seen only during certain 
historic events, and (ii) the Company purportedly being unable to transact business in swaptions at 
prices derived through implied volatility reported in the then-current market.   

       8.     Respondent and others developed a test to support the illiquidity premise.  The test 
involved retroactively c omparing the daily percentage changes in i  mplied volatility levels of 
swaptions to their five-year historical standard  deviation, or differences from mean values.   The 
stated purpose of this te st was to show that  the frequency and magnitude of changes in i mplied 
volatilities during November and D ecember 2000 were unprecedented versus other prior m arket 
liquidity crises.  When the critical standard deviation parameter of this t est failed to “prove” t he 
requisite historic market illiquidity at three standard deviations, the test was altered until it showed 
the swaptions market was at historically illiquid levels.  The final test used two standard deviations. 

       9.     Respondent initiated the concept a nd significantly contributed to the development 
of the Company’s revised methodology for calculating the fair value of its swaptions portfolio.  It 
was formally approved by Respondent and ot hers, and it was adopted i n the preparation of the 
Company’s year-end financial statements. 

                                               3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

       10.    Respondent negligently approved the use of the  methodology that resulted in the 
swaptions valuation bei ng materially under stated,  despite his knowledge of c  ertain facts tha t 
should have called into question the validity of the methodology and its suitability for determining 
the fair value of the Company’s swaptions.  Among other things, Respondent: 

              a.	 knew the Company had not previously deviated from the use of current market 
                  implied volatilies, but rather, the Comp any generally used f or its swaptions 
                  valuation model current  end-of-da y  market inputs from the Indepe      ndent 
                  Swaptions Pricing Service. 

              b.	 was not aware of a ny company that had ever used historica l data to price a 
                  portfolio of swaptions. 

              c.	 knew the methodol ogy was not use d in c onnection with the  Company’s risk 
                  management practices and activities throughout the period whereas the revised 
                  methodology was used for accounting purposes. 

              d.	 should have known that the methodology improperly reduced the Company’s 
                  reported transition gain and there fore did not  result in the swaptions  being 
                  reported at a reasonable estimate of their fair value at year-end as required by 
                  GAAP, and that the circum      stances  surrounding the  development of th  e 
                  valuation methodology created substantial risk that the swaptions would not be 
                  disclosed at their fair value on the balance sheet date as required by GAAP. 

                                    Effect on Reported Results 

       11.    The changed valuation me thod enabled Freddie Mac to val ue its s waptions at a 
value approxim ately $731 m illion lower than w  ould have been if   current m arket im plied 
volatilities (i.e., December 29, 2000 volatilities) had been used, thus offsetting approximately $731 
million of the SFAS 133 transition gain and causing the following reported financial metrics to be 
materially misstated in Freddie Mac’s Information Statement and Annual Report for 2000: 

              a.	 “<item.>Futures and Options</>” in  Table 10 were valued at  $2.008 billion; the value 
                  using year-end volatilities (the historically utilized method) was $2.739 billion – 
                  a 26.7% understatement. 

              b.	 “<item.>Total—Net Fair Value</> ” of deri vatives in t he same table was negati ve $257 
                  million; this figure should have been $474 million. 

              c.	 “<item.>Gross Positive Fair Value</>” of Futures and Options in Table 9-3 in the notes to 
                  the financia l state ments shows a va  lue of $2.187 billion; using year-end 
                  volatilities, it would have been $2.918 billion – a 25.1% understatement. 

                                               4

---------------------Page 5---------------------

              d.	 The “<item.>Gross Positive Fair Value</>” of  Freddie Mac’s derivatives portfolio in the 
                  same table was $6.312 billi on; using year-end volatilities, it would have been 
                  $7.033 billion – a 10.4% understatement. 

   These misstated financial statements were included in offerings of debt securities by Freddie 
   Mac. 

       12.    As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent violated Sections 17(a)(2) 
and (3) of the Securities Act. 

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoi  ng, the Commission  deems it appropriate to accept the Offer 
submitted by Respondent and to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:  

       Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Respondent Dean shall cease and desist from 
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the 
Securities Act. 

 By       the Commission. 

       N                                              ancy M. Morris
       S                                             ecretary 

                                               5

