---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                            Before the 
                        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
         
       SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
       Release No.  53378 / February 27, 2006 
        
       ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
       Release No.  2383 / February 27, 2006 
        
       ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
       File No.  3-12218 
                                           
       In the Matter of                     :   ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS  
                                          :     PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF THE 
       Geoffrey Jie Wei, CPA (China),          :     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
                                          :     OF 1934 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE  
       Respondent.                        :     COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE,  
                                          :     MAKING FINDINGS AND IMPOSING 
                                          :     REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASE- 
        :                                     AND-DESIST ORDER   
       ______________________________: 
                                                           
                                                 I. 
        
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate 
       that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted 
       pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and 
       Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice1
                                                                against Geoffrey Jie Wei 
       (“Wei” or “Respondent”). 
                                                   
                                                II. 
         
                     In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted 
       an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.  
       Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on 
       behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting 
       or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over 
       Respondent and the subject matter of these proceedings, which Respondent admits, 
                                                        
       1
                     Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
        
                       The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
       practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have willfully violated, or willfully 
       aided and abetted the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules and 
       regulations thereunder. 
        
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Respondent consents to the issuance of this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to 
Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and 
a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                          III. 
                                             
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds 2
                                                                                 that: 
 
A.     Respondent  
 
       Geoffrey Jie Wei, age 38, is a citizen of China.  Wei was <comp.>NetEase.com, Inc.</>’s 
(“NetEase” or the “Company”) Vice President of Finance and Chief Accountant in 2000.  
Wei also was the Acting CFO from January 2001 until September 2001, when he resigned 
from the Company.  Wei obtained a CPA certification in China in 1996 and previously 
worked for  PricewaterhouseCoopers and KPMG.  Wei currently is a director (and formerly 
served as chairman of the audit committee) of The Hartcourt Companies, Inc., a company 
based in China whose American Depositary Shares (“ADS”) are registered with the 
Commission under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and are quoted on the OTC bulletin 
board. 
 
B.     Other Relevant Parties 
 
       NetEase.com, Inc. is a Cayman Islands corporation established in July 1999 to 
conduct an Internet business in China.  In June 2000, NetEase raised $65 million in an 
initial public offering in the United States.  NetEase offers a wide range of Internet 
services to Chinese customers including news, email, instant messaging, chat rooms and 
online auctions.  During the relevant time, NetEase had approximately 250 employees 
and operated through offices in Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou, China.  NetEase’s 
ADS are registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act 
and trade on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol NTES.   
 
C.     Facts 
 
       1.     Summary
 
       During <date.>2000</> and <date.>2001</>, NetEase employees circumvented the Company’s internal 
accounting controls and falsified the Company’s books and records in connection with 
hundreds of advertising and e-commerce contracts.  NetEase then recorded <item.>revenue</> from 
the transactions in a manner that did not conform with U.S. Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (“GAAP”).  As a result, NetEase materially overstated its revenue 
and made numerous false and misleading statements about its <item.>financial condition</> in 

                                                 
2
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.    
 

                                           2
---------------------Page 3---------------------

annual and periodic reports filed with the Commission and in other public statements, 
including earnings releases.3
                               
        
       Wei was aware of, or was reckless in not knowing of, the improper revenue 
recognition practices of the Company.  Wei warned a NetEase officer that the company’s 
revenue recognition practices were illegal.  Despite his own warnings, Wei failed to stop 
or was reckless in not detecting that NetEase staff was altering advertising contracts to 
improperly accelerate revenue recognition.  Wei also signed a false or misleading 
management representation letter to NetEase’s independent auditor in connection with 
their fiscal 2000 audit.     
        
       In part, as a result of Wei’s conduct or failures to act, NetEase materially 
overstated its revenue and net income in financial statements furnished to the 
Commission.  By engaging in this conduct, Wei willfully violated Rules 13b2-1 and 
13b2-2 under the Exchange Act and willfully aided and abetted and was a cause of 
NetEase’s violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act 
and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-16 thereunder.   
        
         2.   Background
 
       In April 2001, a potential purchaser of NetEase identified and questioned a large 
amount of past due accounts receivable balances.  As a result, NetEase’s audit committee 
conducted an internal investigation, which found that the Company’s management had 
directed employees to circumvent internal controls on a widespread basis causing the 
Company to materially overstate revenue.  Specifically, NetEase materially inflated 
revenue by $4.3 million, or 109%, and understated net loss by 16% for the fiscal year 
ended December 31, 2000.  NetEase also overstated revenue by approximately 5%, 36%, 
138%, 290%, and 116% for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, June 30, September 30,  
and December 31, 2000, and March 31, 2001, respectively, and understated net loss by 
6%, 20% and 23% for the final three quarters in year 2000.  To correct its improper 
accounting, NetEase restated previously reported fiscal year 2000 financial results and 
corrected, before public dissemination, its financial results for the quarter ended March 
31, 2001. 
        
       3.     Relevant GAAP 
        
       GAAP permits revenue recognition when, among other things, the seller has 
provided the product or service to the customer.  Statement of Financial Accounting 
Concepts No. 5, “Recognition and Measurement in Financial Statements of Business 
Enterprises.”  When a company renders services over time, revenue generally is 
recognized on a straight line basis over the service period.  Staff Accounting Bulletin: 
No. 101, “Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements.”  For barter transactions, a 
company is required to record revenue based on the fair values of the assets or services 
exchanged by the parties.  Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 29, “Accounting for 
                                                 
3
       The Commission filed a related case against NetEase in Federal District Court on 
February 27, 2006.   

                                            3
---------------------Page 4---------------------

Nonmonetary Transactions”; Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 99-17, “Accounting 
for Advertising Barter Transactions.”  Finally, GAAP requires that companies account 
for transactions in accordance with their substance, rather than their form.  Statement of 
Financial Accounting Concepts No. 2, “Qualitative Characteristics of Accounting 
Information.” 
        
       As is discussed below, NetEase improperly accounted for hundreds of advertising 
and e-commerce transactions during 2000 and 2001.  For some arrangements, NetEase’s 
accounting did not conform with GAAP because the Company recognized revenue when 
it had not rendered any services to the customer.  In other instances, NetEase improperly 
accelerated revenue recognition by recording revenue over an artificially shortened  
service period.  Finally, NetEase improperly recognized revenue in connection with 
barter arrangements lacking economic substance in that neither party provided any 
products or services to the other or because the Company had no evidence establishing 
that anything of value was provided.     
        
       4.     Circumvention of Internal Controls
 
       NetEase established a system of internal accounting controls in 2000 that 
segregated revenue recognition controls among three departments – Sales, Contracts and 
Finance.  The Sales Department was responsible for negotiating contracts.  The Contracts 
Department was responsible for signing contracts, arranging for advertising placements, 
and completing documents evidencing that the advertisements were shown on NetEase’s 
website.  The Finance Department was responsible for affixing NetEase’s corporate seal 
on the contracts and for preparing revenue recognition journal entries.   However, this 
system did not provide reasonable assurances that services actually were performed 
before recognizing revenue.  NetEase also failed to maintain its internal controls by 
verifying whether NetEase employees were complying with them.  
        
       In 2000 and 2001, NetEase’s employees in these departments circumvented the 
Company’s internal controls in order to materially inflate reported revenue.  NetEase’s 
improper revenue recognition can be classified into the following three categories, even 
though some transactions may involve more than one category:      
        
       a.     Recording approximately $2 million in revenue in connection with barter 
              arrangements lacking economic substance;   

       b.     Shifting approximately $1.1 million in revenue into earlier quarters by 
              artificially bifurcating advertising arrangements with customers into two 
              contracts and improperly recognizing revenue over a shortened time.  
              NetEase employees referred to this technique as “revenue-brought-
              forward”; and   

       c.     Recording approximately $1.2 million of revenue in fictitious revenue in 
              situations in which NetEase had not performed the required advertising or 
              e-commerce services.   

                                           4
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       For all three categories, NetEase’s Contracts Department, which was responsible 
for arranging for the provision of the services, prepared reports falsely showing that 
NetEase had performed the advertising.  The Finance Department, which placed the 
Company’s seal on the contracts, prepared revenue recognition journal entries using the 
Contract Department’s false performance records.  Finally, the Sales Department 
artificially bifurcated sales arrangements into two contracts in order to accelerate revenue 
into earlier quarters.  For example, a contract having a six-month term was divided into 
two agreements, one having a three-month term and another “bonus contract” for which 
NetEase provided “free” services for three additional months.  Contrary to GAAP, 
NetEase recognized revenue over the shortened three-month period instead of the true 
term of six months.  To identify which contracts to conceal from its independent auditor, 
employees marked the initial contracts with the prefix “G” and the bonus contracts with 
the prefix “Z.”  
 
       5.     Wei’s Involvement in NetEase’s Improper Recognition of Revenue  
        
       During the time of the company’s improper revenue recognition, Wei was 
NetEase’s Vice President of Finance and Chief Accountant and was, in conjunction with 
the CFO, responsible for NetEase’s accounting policies and preparation of its financial 
statements.  During part of this time, Wei also was the Acting CFO.  Wei advised 
members of the sales department that the “revenue brought forward” technique was 
improper.  Despite his knowledge that the practice was improper, and despite his 
responsibility for the company’s accounting, Wei did not stop the practice or bring it to 
the attention of NetEase’s board or independent auditor.  Instead, Wei was aware, or was 
reckless in not knowing, that sales department staff were altering contracts in a manner 
that would accelerate recognition of revenue into earlier periods.  The altered periods did 
not reflect the true terms of the payment arrangements and resulted in the premature 
recognition of revenue by NetEase.   
        
       On February 14, 2001, in connection with the audit of NetEase’s fiscal 2000 
financial results, Wei signed NetEase’s management representation letter to its 
independent auditor.  In the letter, Wei stated, among other things, that NetEase’s 
financial statements were “fairly presented” in conformance with GAAP; that the 
Company and its executives, including Wei, had given the auditor “all financial records 
and related data”; and that all material transactions had been properly recorded in the 
Company’s accounting records.  Wei was reckless in making these representations, which 
were not true.  Based in part on this letter, NetEase’s auditor issued an audit report 
containing an unqualified opinion for fiscal 2000, which was included in the Company’s 
annual report disseminated to investors along with proxy materials. 
    
         6.   False Financial Results 

       NetEase publicly disseminated materially false and misleading financial results 
for the quarters ended March 31, June 30, and September 30, 2000, and the quarter and 
year ended December 31, 2000, as follows:  
        

                                            5
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       a.      First Quarter Ended March 31, 2000 – NetEase’s registration statement for 
              its June 30, 2000 IPO, which was filed with the Commission on June 29, 
              2000, included financial statements for the quarter ended March 31, 2000, 
              which overstated quarterly revenue by approximately 5%. 
        
       b.     Second Quarter Ended June 30, 2000 – NetEase’s earnings press release 
              issued on July 31, 2000, and Form 6-K furnished to the Commission on or 
              about August 3, 2000, overstated second quarter revenue by 
              approximately 36% and understated net loss by 6%.  The earnings release 
              also falsely claimed 103% revenue growth over the previous quarter.  The 
              restated results reflect 56% growth.   
        
       c.      Third Quarter Ended September 30, 2000 – NetEase’s earnings press 
              release issued on October 31, 2000, and Form 6-K furnished the same day, 
              overstated quarterly revenue by approximately 138% and understated net 
              loss by 20%.  The press release falsely claimed revenue growth of 47% 
              over the previous quarter and a 539% increase over the same quarter in the 
              prior year.  The restated results reflect a 16% decline in revenue from the 
              previous quarter and a 169% increase from the prior year’s quarter. 
        
       d.     Fourth Quarter Ended December 31, 2000 – NetEase’s earnings press 
              release for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2000 (issued on 
              March 1, 2001), and Form 6-K furnished to the Commission the same day, 
              overstated quarterly revenue by approximately 290% and annual revenue 
              by 109% and understated net loss by 23% for the quarter and 16% for the 
              year.  The earnings release claimed fourth quarter revenue growth of 25% 
              over the previous quarter and a 159% increase over the same quarter in the 
              prior year.  The release also claimed that full year 2000 revenue increased 
              311% over the prior year.  The restated fourth quarter results reflect a 24% 
              drop from the previous quarter, a 34% drop from the prior year’s quarter, 
              and the restated full year results reflect a 97% increase from the prior year.  
              NetEase falsely attributed increases in its advertising revenue to a 
              continued increase in the number of advertisers as well the size of their 
              purchases. 
        
       e.      Year Ended December 31, 2000 – NetEase’s glossy annual report for 
              fiscal 2000, which was disseminated to investors with the Company’s 
              proxy materials on or about April 1, 2001, overstated full year revenue by 
              $4.3 million, or 109% ($4.0 million versus $8.3 million), understated its 
              net loss by $3.2 million, or 16% (-$20.5 million versus -$17.3 million) and 
              understated its ADS loss per share by $.13, or 16% (-$.82 versus -$.69).  
              The glossy annual report falsely represented that NetEase’s annual 
              advertising revenue grew by 456% ($1.3 million to $7.3 million). The 
              Company’s annual report on Form 20-F for fiscal 2000, which was filed 
              with the Commission on August 31, 2001, included corrected financial 
              results (based upon the August 2001 restatement).   

                                           6
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                                           IV. 
 
                                LEGAL DISCUSSION 
 
       A.     Geoffrey Wei Willfully Aided and Abetted and Was a Cause of NetEase’s 
              Violations of the Reporting and Recordkeeping Provisions of the 
              Exchange Act 

       Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-16 thereunder generally require 
foreign private issuers with securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act to 
file certain reports on Form 6-K with the Commission.  The obligation to file such reports 
includes the requirement that they be true and correct.  Exchange Act Rule 12b-20 
provides that in addition to the information expressly required to be included in a 
statement or report, there shall be added such further material information, if any, as may 
be necessary to make the required statements, in the light of the circumstances under 
which they were made, not misleading.  Financial statements in Commission filings that 
do not comply with GAAP are presumed to be misleading.  Regulation S-X, 17 C.F.R. 
210.4-01(a)(1). 

       Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires Section 12 registrants to make 
and keep books, records, and accounts that accurately and fairly reflect their transactions 
and dispositions of their assets.  Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires issuers 
to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide 
reasonable assurances that, among other things, transactions are recorded as necessary to 
permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP and to maintain the 
accountability of assets. 
        
       No showing of scienter is required to prove violations of Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B).  See, e.g., SEC v. Savoy Indus., Inc., 587 F.2d 1149, 1165 
(D.C. Cir. 1978), cert. denied, 440 U.S. 913 (1979); SEC v. World-Wide Coin 
Investments, Ltd., 567 F. Supp. 747, 749-50 (N.D. Ga. 1983).     
        
       As discussed above, NetEase’s books and records did not accurately and fairly 
reflect the terms of contracts that NetEase personnel had altered to accelerate revenue 
into the first quarter of 2001.  Wei was aware of, or was reckless in not knowing of, some 
of these changes.  Wei also was aware, or reckless in not knowing, that the Company’s 
prior filings with the Commission materially overstated its revenue.  By this conduct, 
Wei willfully aided and abetted and was a cause of NetEase’s violations of the reporting, 
recordkeeping and internal controls provisions of the Exchange Act. 
        
 B.               Wei Willfully Violated Exchange Act Rules 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 
 
         Rule 13b2-1 of the Exchange Act prohibits any person from, directly or 
indirectly, falsifying or causing to be falsified any book, record or account subject to 
Section 13(b)(2)(A).  Rule 13b2-2 of the Exchange Act prohibits directors and officers 
from, directly or indirectly, making or causing to be made materially false or misleading 
statements to an accountant in connection with an audit or the preparation of Commission 

                                            7
---------------------Page 8---------------------

filings.  As detailed above, Wei was aware, or was reckless in not knowing, that 
alterations to contracts were made for the purpose of improperly accelerating NetEase’s 
recognition of revenue.  Wei also signed an inaccurate management representation letter 
to the auditor, which it relied on in issuing an audit report containing an unqualified 
opinion for NetEase’s fiscal 2000 financial statements.  As a result, Wei willfully 
violated Rules 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 of the Exchange Act.  
 
                                           V. 
                                             
       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Geoffrey Wei willfully 
violated Rules 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 of the Exchange Act, and willfully aided and abetted 
and was a cause of NetEase.com, Inc.’s violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-16 thereunder. 
        
                                          VI. 
 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the 
sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
        
       Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
        
       A.     Geoffrey Wei shall cease and desist from committing or causing any 
violations and any future violations of Rules 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 of the Exchange Act, 
and from causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) 
and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-16 thereunder.   
        
       B.     Geoffrey Wei is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant. 
        
       C.     After one year from the date of this order, Respondent may request that 
the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: 
Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as: 
      
              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation 
or review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the 
Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work 
in his practice before the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit 
committee of the public company for which he works or in some other acceptable 
manner, as long as he practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy 
the Commission that: 
      
                      (a)    Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) 

                                            8
---------------------Page 9---------------------

in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be 
effective; 
 
   (b)                        Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with 
which he is associated, has been inspected by the Board or an approved foreign oversight 
body in cooperation with the Board, and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of 
or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision or, if the Board has not 
conducted an inspection, has received an unqualified report relating to his, or the firm’s, 
most recent peer review conducted in accordance with the guidelines adopted by the 
former SEC Practice Section of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants 
Division for CPA Firms or an organization providing equivalent oversight and quality 
control functions;  

   (c)                        Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the 
Board, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the 
Board (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
   (d)                        Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not 
limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner 
reviews and quality control standards.   
 
       D.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to 
resume appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his CPA 
certification in China is current and he has resolved any disciplinary issues with the 
applicable accountancy authority in China.  However, if the resolution of any 
disciplinary action by an accountancy authority is dependant on reinstatement by 
the Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  
The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters 
referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, 
professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 
       By the Commission.      
        
       N                                              ancy M. Morris 
       S                                             ecretary 

                                            9
