---------------------Page 1---------------------

                         UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
 
                                     Before the
 
                  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 51516 / April 11, 2005 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2229 / April 11, 2005 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-11890 
      ______________________________ 
                                : 
In the Matter of                : 
                                :     ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                :     ADMINISTRATIVE AND 
                                :     CEASE-AND-DESIST 
GREGORY DAVIS, CPA and          :     PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO SECTION 
BKR METCALF DAVIS               :     21C OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT  
                                :     OF 1934 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                :     COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE,   
                                :     MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
            Respondents.        :     REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A 
                                :     CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
______________________________: 

                                         I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission” or “SEC”) deems it 
appropriate that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, 
instituted against Gregory Davis, CPA (“Davis”) and BKR Metcalf Davis (“Metcalf Davis”) 
(together referred to as “Respondents”) pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) and (iii) of the Commission's Rules of 
Practice.1 

1 
      Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 

            The Commission may censure a person or deny, temporarily or permanently, the 
privilege of appearing or practicing before it by any person who is found... to have engaged in 
improper professional conduct. 

      Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept. 2 
                                                                               Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, 
and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.  

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds  3
                                                                                  that: 

       A.     RESPONDENTS AND RELATED PARTIES 

       Respondents 

       1.     Metcalf Davis (formerly known as <comp.>Metcalf, Rice, Fricke and Davis</>), located in 
Atlanta, Georgia, is an accounting firm that provides professional services including auditing and 
tax work.  It is a member of BKR International Association, a network of affiliated accounting 
firms.  Metcalf Davis was Chancellor Corporation’s (“Chancellor”) independent auditor from 
February 1999 to October 2001. 

       2.     Davis, age 53, is a certified public accountant and resides in Lilburn, Georgia.  He 
has been a partner of Metcalf Davis since 1990.  Davis served as the engagement partner for the 
firm’s audits of Chancellor’s 1998 and 1999 financial statements as well as the restatements in 

              The Commission may censure a person or deny, temporarily or permanently, the 
privilege of appearing or practicing before it to any person who is found...to have willfully 
violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of any provision of the Federal securities 
laws or the rules or regulations thereunder. 
2 
       As part of a final resolution of  the Commission’s claims against them, Davis and Metcalf 
Davis have also agreed to settle a pending civil action by consenting to the entry of a district 
court judgment ordering Davis to pay a civil monetary penalty of $25,000 and Metcalf Davis to 
pay a civil monetary penalty of $50,000. SEC v. Chancellor Corp. et. al. (D. Mass., Civil Action 
No 03-10762-MEL). 
3 
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                               2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

2000 of its previously filed 1998 and 1999 financial statements. 

       Related Parties 

       3.     Chancellor Corporation is a Massachusetts corporation with headquarters in 
Boston, Massachusetts, which was principally engaged in buying, selling and leasing new and 
used transportation equipment such as trailers and trucks.  From 1983 to 2001, Chancellor’s 
common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange 
Act.  On March 9, 2001, Chancellor filed a Form 15 terminating its Commission registration 
because it had fewer than 300 shareholders.  In August 2001, one of the firm’s creditors filed an 
involuntary bankruptcy action against Chancellor in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in the District of 
New Jersey and the court appointed a receiver to liquidate the company’s assets. 

       B.     FACTS 

       Summary 

       4.     Respondents Davis and Metcalf Davis engaged in improper professional conduct 
in connection with the audits of Chancellor’s <date.>1998</> and <date.>1999</> financial results, as well as the 
interim reviews of Chancellor’s quarterly results for the first three quarters of 2000.  Davis and 
Metcalf Davis aided and abetted Chancellor to materially overstate its <item.>revenue</>, <item.>income</> and <item.>assets</> 
for 1998 in its Form 10-KSB.  Davis and Metcalf Davis also aided and abetted Chancellor, in 
two Forms 10-KSB-A for 1998, and in a Form 10-KSB and Form 10-KSB-A for 1999, to 
materially misrepresent and improperly disclose the nature and substance of fees purportedly 
owed to a related party, which was the company’s largest shareholder and controlled by the 
company’s CEO and chairman of the board of directors.  Finally, Davis and Metcalf Davis aided 
and abetted Chancellor to provide materially misleading disclosure in the Forms 10-QSB for the 
first three quarters of 2000 related to the use of the proceeds from a line of credit obtained by the 
company. 

       5.     First, along with Chancellor’s management, Davis and Metcalf Davis aided and 
abetted Chancellor to improperly account for the acquisition of a subsidiary, MRB, Inc. 
(“MRB”), as a business combination in its 1998 year-end financial statements, although the 
acquisition was not completed until 1999.  This premature consolidation of the subsidiary’s 
financial results caused Chancellor to overstate its 1998 revenue by $19 million or 177%.  Davis 
and Metcalf Davis concluded that the 1998 consolidation was properly recorded although it did 
not conform with GAAP.  Their position was based in significant part on a document that was 
produced in circumstances indicating that it might have been fabricated by Chancellor’s 
management.  Respondents failed to inform Chancellor’s audit committee of the possibility of 
management fraud.  

       6.     Second, in connection with Chancellor’s acquisition of MRB, Davis and Metcalf 
Davis, along with Chancellor’s management, aided and abetted  Chancellor to record a fee of 

                                               3
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

$3.3 million to an entity controlled by the CEO of Chancellor, for purported acquisition 
consulting services that were never rendered.  The baseless payment was also improperly 
capitalized rather than being reported as an expense.  As a result, Chancellor reported assets of 
$29.5 million rather than $26.2 million.  If Chancellor had recorded the fee as an expense, it 
would have reported a net loss of $2.45 million for 1998.  By capitalizing the fee, Chancellor was 
able to report a net income of $850,000. 

       7.     Third, after interaction with the Commission’s Division of Corporation Finance, 
Chancellor submitted two Form 10-KSB-As, amending its original 1998 Form 10-KSB, and one 
Form 10-KSB-A, amending its 1999 Form 10-KSB.  Davis and Metcalf Davis, along with 
Chancellor’s management, aided and abetted Chancellor to make misleading disclosures in these 
filings related to the $3.3 million fee purportedly owed to the related party controlled by 
Chancellor’s CEO.  In its amended filings, Chancellor took the position that $2.2 million of the 
fee was actually a contingent liability that did not need to be recorded when the acquisition was 
consummated because its repayment was based on the future profitability of MRB.  Davis 
accepted the recharacterization of the fee even though he still had insufficient evidence that it 
was legitimate. 

       8.     Finally, Davis and Metcalf Davis also reviewed and approved language in 
Chancellor’s Forms 10-QSB for the first three quarters of 2000 that failed to meaningfully 
disclose the misuse of Chancellor loan proceeds from a line of credit by Chancellor’s CEO, Brian 
Adley (“Adley”), and they failed to take any steps to determine the nature of the transaction. 

       9.      By their conduct, Davis and Metcalf Davis willfully  violated Section 10A of the4
Exchange Act and willfully aided and abetted Chancellor’s violations of Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder; and engaged in improper 
professional conduct under Rule 102(e)(1) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 

       Chancellor’s Premature MRB Consolidation 

       10.     In August 1998, Chancellor entered into a letter of intent to acquire a subsidiary, 
MRB.  The acquisition closed on January 29, 1999.  Chancellor included MRB’s financial results 
from August 1, 1998 forward in Chancellor’s 1998 reported results.  

       11.    Under generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), in order for 
Chancellor to make the MRB acquisition effective and consolidation proper as of August 1, 
1998, it was necessary that there be a written agreement giving Chancellor effective control over 

4 
       “Willfully” as used in this Order means knowingly committing the act which constitutes 
the violation.  See Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000); Tager v. SEC, 344 F.2d 
5, 8 (2d Cir.1965). 

                                               4
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

MRB as of that date.5 
                       In early February 1999, Chancellor gave the company’s auditors at the 
time (the firm which Metcalf Davis later replaced (“predecessor auditors”)) a purported 
Management Agreement, backdated to August 1, 1998, that Chancellor’s management claimed 
gave Chancellor control over MRB’s affairs.  The predecessor auditors, however, found the terms 
of this agreement insufficient to support the conclusion that Chancellor controlled MRB as of 
August 1998.  

       12.    The predecessor auditors informed Chancellor’s CEO, Adley, and its audit 
committee in a memorandum dated February 8, 1999 and again at a board meeting on February 
12, 1999, that consolidation of MRB’s 1998 financial results with Chancellor’s did not comport 
with GAAP.  They provided accounting literature that outlined the criteria to be satisfied in order 
for Chancellor properly to consolidate MRB’s 1998 financial results and identified specific 
deficiencies in the Management Agreement. 

       13.    Upon receiving this information, Adley directed Chancellor’s acting CFO to 
create another document, the “First Amendment” to Chancellor’s Management Agreement with 
MRB, which was falsely dated August 17, 1998, in order to meet the criteria for consolidation by 
correcting the deficiencies in the Management Agreement identified by the predecessor auditors. 
The First Amendment to the Management Agreement provided that Chancellor would assume 
control of MRB’s daily operations in August 1998 and that from then on MRB was required to 
submit significant decisions to Chancellor for approval.  

       14.    The two controlling shareholders of MRB never saw or approved the First 
Amendment to the Management Agreement in August 1998.  Moreover, its terms were 
inconsistent with the actual relations between the two companies before the January 1999 
acquisition.  Control did not in fact effectively pass to Chancellor until the January 1999 closing. 

       15.    The substance of the First Amendment to the Management Agreement did not 
cause the predecessor auditors to change their position that Chancellor could only properly 
account for the MRB acquisition as of January 1999.  On February 25, 1999, Chancellor 
dismissed the predecessor auditors.  

       16.    After dismissing the predecessor auditors, Chancellor engaged Metcalf Davis to 
conduct the independent audit of its 1998 financial statements.  Chancellor provided the 
backdated Management Agreement and the fabricated First Amendment to Davis.  The 
predecessor auditors described to Metcalf Davis the sequence of events by which they received 

5 
       Paragraph 93 of APB No. 16 (Business Combinations) states that the date of acquisition 
of a company should ordinarily be the date the acquisition agreement is consummated.  However, 
a business combination may be accounted for as of a designated date before consummation of the 
agreement “if a written agreement provides that effective control of the acquired company is 
transferred to the acquiring corporation on that date without restrictions except those required to 
protect the stockholders or other owners of the acquired company.” 

                                               5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

the First Amendment (i.e. the prior auditors identified specific deficiencies in the Management 
Agreement and then the company came forward with the First Amendment that seemed on its 
face to correct the issues).  Moreover, the predecessor auditors told Metcalf Davis that they had 
questions about the authenticity of the First Amendment. 

       17.    During March 1999, Chancellor gave Davis and Metcalf Davis additional 
documents purportedly demonstrating Chancellor’s control of MRB during 1998.  These 
documents included letters and memoranda, fabricated in March 1999, but bearing dates during 
1998, which purportedly instructed MRB’s officers to act on various business matters.  

       Chancellor’s Recording of Vestex’s Improper Consulting Fees 

       18.    In connection with its acquisition of MRB, Chancellor improperly recorded $3.3 
million in consulting fees payable to Vestex, Chancellor’s largest shareholder and a firm wholly 
owned by Chancellor’s CEO, Adley.  The fees were purportedly for work by Vestex in finding, 
introducing and negotiating the MRB acquisition and securing financing for it.  In fact, however, 
there was no basis for the consulting fees because Vestex did not find or negotiate the MRB 
acquisition or provide any other significant services to Chancellor in connection with the MRB 
acquisition. 

       19.    In April 1999, Adley directed fabrication of documents to support the $3.3 million 
Vestex fee.  The fabricated documents included a Chancellor board resolution dated September 
11, 1998 directing Chancellor to pay Vestex $3.25 million at the closing of the MRB acquisition 
for its services in connection with the acquisition; a promissory note from Chancellor payable to 
Vestex in the amount of $3.475 million; and a consulting agreement between Chancellor and 
Vestex.  The fabricated documents were given to Metcalf Davis.  

       20.    Davis requested documents from Adley and other Chancellor employees showing 
that consulting services had actually been rendered, including bills and time records.  Neither 
Adley nor anyone else at Chancellor ever provided any such documents to Davis or Metcalf 
Davis. 

       21.    Chancellor recorded the $3.3 million Vestex consulting fee as a capitalized asset 
of Chancellor, rather than as an expense on Chancellor’s income statement.  Under GAAP, 
“incremental costs” payable to an outside consultant in a business combination may be 
capitalized, but fees payable to employees or entities controlled or owned by employees, such as 
Vestex, are internal costs that must be expensed.   If Chancellor had recorded the fee as an  
expense, it would have reported a net loss of $2.45 million for 1998.  By capitalizing the fee, 
Chancellor was able to report a net income of $850,000 and overstate its assets by $3.3 million. 

                                               6
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

       Respondents’ Improper Conduct In the Chancellor Audits 

       22.    At the time Chancellor retained Metcalf Davis to audit its 1998 financial 
statements, Metcalf Davis had three partners (including Davis) and a professional staff of about 
20 accountants. 

       23.    Davis was the engagement partner responsible for auditing Chancellor’s financial 
statements for 1998 and 1999.   Davis was the sole partner in Metcalf Davis’ commercial  
auditing department during 1999 and was also the partner responsible for monitoring the firm’s 
quality control system. 

       24.    In addition to Davis, the Chancellor audit team included a concurring partner, a 
senior manager and a staff accountant. 

       25.    Davis, with input from the senior manager, concluded that it was proper under 
GAAP to record the MRB acquisition as of August 1, 1998 because Chancellor had the necessary 
control of MRB as of that date.  Davis arrived at this conclusion even though he knew that the 
predecessor auditor had previously determined that accounting for the acquisition as of August 1, 
1998 did not comply with GAAP.  

       26.    Davis, in reaching his conclusion, relied on the Management Agreement and the 
First Amendment to the Management Agreement as the evidence of Chancellor’s control even 
though he knew that there were issues raised as to the authenticity of the First Amendment.  For 
example, Davis was aware that the senior manager had raised concerns about the authenticity of 
the First Amendment, which was not referred to in the papers that Metcalf Davis had received 
from the predecessor auditor on the issue and which seemed to address all of the deficiencies in 
the Management Agreement raised by the predecessor auditor.   

       27.    Neither Davis nor any other Metcalf Davis auditor questioned Adley or any other 
Chancellor representative about the authenticity of the First Amendment despite their concerns. 
Nor did Davis or any other Metcalf Davis auditor confirm the existence, date or terms of the First 
Amendment with the MRB shareholders during the audit.  Indeed, for his part, Davis took little 
or no steps to confirm the authenticity of the documents on which the 1998 consolidation date 
depended. 

       28.    Davis, the concurring partner and the senior manager were all aware of the 
possibility that Chancellor’s management had fabricated the First Amendment, if not other 
documents as well, yet they never attempted to communicate that fact to Chancellor’s audit 
committee, its board of directors, or the Commission.  Metcalf Davis’ report to Chancellor’s 
audit committee on the propriety of the August 1, 1998 consolidation date, which was signed by 
Davis and reviewed by the senior manager and the concurring partner, did not refer to the issue. 

                                               7
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

       29.     Davis personally performed the audit fieldwork for Chancellor’s 1998 related 
party transactions, such as those with Vestex, because he deemed this to be a high-risk audit area. 
Davis knew that Chancellor had written off $1.1 million in related party fees during 1997 and 
that substantial adjustments to related party fees had been made as a result of the 1997 audit.  
The predecessor auditors’ work papers that Davis reviewed stated that adjustments were 
necessary because, inter alia, the described services had not been performed or there was 
inadequate documentation for the transactions.  During Davis’ examination of the 1998 related 
party transactions, Davis questioned Adley about the basis for the $3.3 million in fees payable to 
Vestex for services received in connection with MRB’s acquisition.  On the last day of his 
fieldwork at Chancellor, Davis received three documents (all of which had been fabricated) to 
support the fees: a copy of a board resolution authorizing Chancellor to pay Vestex fees of 
$3,250,000 for services relating to MRB’s pending acquisition; a copy of a $3,475,000 note 
payable to Vestex that included $3.3 million owed for services supposedly received in connection 
with the MRB acquisition; and a purported agreement between Chancellor and Vestex relating to 
consulting services. 

       30.     Davis was aware that the senior manager had raised issues about the Vestex fees, 
noting that the work papers contained no documentation to support the nature or value of the 
supposed services for which the fees were being charged.  

       31.     Davis questioned Adley and Chancellor’s president, Franklyn E. Churchill 
(“Churchill”), about the fees, which totaled approximately 70% of the stock transaction, and 
asked Adley and Chancellor’s controller for invoices or other documents showing that services 
had, in fact, been rendered.  However, Davis never received those documents, and instead, Davis 
relied on oral representations from Adley and Churchill that Vestex had performed the services. 

       32.     Davis reviewed Chancellor’s draft 1998 Form 10-KSB, including the footnote 
referring to related party transactions.  This footnote did not comply with GAAP because it did 
not adequately disclose information necessary to understand the fees for the MRB transaction, 
including the services purportedly justifying these charges or how the charges were determined. 
Davis, however, did not ensure that these items were added to the text. 

       33.     Davis also approved Chancellor’s improper capitalization of the purported $3.3 
million MRB fees to Vestex as “incremental costs” payable to an outside consultant in a business 
combination.  This treatment was inconsistent with GAAP, which provides that fees payable to 
employees or entities controlled or owned by employees, such as Adley’s entity Vestex, are 
internal costs that must be expensed.6 
                                       Davis approved this treatment even though he knew that 
the capitalized $3.3 million in fees represented approximately 10% of Chancellor’s total reported 
assets and that capitalizing rather than expensing the fees would cause Chancellor to report a 
profit rather than a loss for 1998.  

6 
       See Paragraph 76 of APB Opinion No. 16 (Business Combinations) and Interpretation 
No. 33 of APB 16. 

                                                8
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

       34.    On April 16, 1999, Chancellor filed a Form 10-KSB for the year ended December 
31, 1998.  Chancellor’s financial statements accounted for its acquisition of MRB as of August 1, 
1998, and consolidated MRB’s financial results with those of Chancellor.  As a result, 
Chancellor reported annual revenues of $29,639,000, 177% higher than the $10,708,000 revenue 
figure for Chancellor without the MRB consolidation; annual net income of $850,000, rather 
than $524,000 (62% higher); and assets of $29,569,000, rather than $8,186,000 (261% higher). 

       35.    This accounting treatment did not comport with GAAP because during 1998 
Chancellor did not have a written agreement establishing effective control nor did it actually have 
the effective control of MRB needed to justify accounting for MRB’s acquisition as of 1998. 

       36.    Chancellor’s 1998 Form 10-KSB falsely represented that Adley’s Vestex entity 
had handled the acquisition of MRB and provided consulting, financing and other services in 
connection with the acquisition.  It falsely stated that as part of those services Vestex had 
obtained $3.5 million in financing for Chancellor.  

       37.    GAAP requires that financial statements include disclosure of material related-
party transactions, including information deemed necessary to gain an understanding of the 
effects of the transactions on the financial statements.  The transaction between Chancellor and 
Vestex was a related-party transaction, and GAAP required disclosure of the specific facts 
relating to the $3.3 million fee.  

       38.    The 1998 Form 10-KSB did not comport with GAAP because, although it 
disclosed that Chancellor incurred costs of $3.405 million in acquiring MRB, it did not disclose 
that these costs consisted almost entirely of consulting fees charged by Vestex.  It did not 
disclose the lack of any basis for the fees. 

       39.     The $3.3 million MRB-related Vestex fee accrued by Chancellor was included in 
Chancellor’s reported financial results.  The fee should not have been included because it lacked 
economic substance.  Even if it had been a legitimate fee, GAAP required that it should have 
been recorded as an expense.  The fee was improperly capitalized.  As a result, Chancellor 
overstated its assets at year-end 1998 by 11%. 

       40.    Davis signed and authorized issuance of the Metcalf Davis auditors’ report on 
Chancellor’s 1998 year-end financial statements.  The report falsely stated that Chancellor’s 
financial statements were fairly presented in conformity with GAAP and that Metcalf Davis’ 
audit had been performed in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards (“GAAS”). 

       41.    Davis also signed Metcalf Davis’s audit reports for both of Chancellor’s 
restatements of its 1998 financial results in 2000.  After the Commission’s Division of 
Corporation Finance raised questions about the nature of the $3.3 million in Vestex fees and 
required that they be expensed, rather than expense the entire $3.3 million, Chancellor took the 
new position that $2.2 million of the purported fees was actually a contingent liability that did 

                                                9
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

not need to be recorded when the acquisition was consummated because its repayment was based 
on the future profitability of MRB.  Davis accepted Chancellor’s revised position even though he 
still had insufficient evidence concerning the nature of the Vestex fees and no evidence showing 
that any services were rendered.  Davis accepted this new position solely on Adley’s oral 
representations, which was inconsistent with the representations in the original Form 10-KSB 
and the fabricated supporting documents that Chancellor had provided Davis. 

       42.    Davis, with insufficient evidence to support Chancellor’s representations 
concerning the Vestex fees, and also without a review conducted by the concurring partner, 
signed a Metcalf Davis audit report containing an unqualified opinion, which was included in 
Chancellor’s Form 10-KSB-A filed in January 2000 for the year ended December 31, 1998.  The 
amended Form 10-KSB, which Davis approved, remained materially misleading with respect to 
the fees, which were improperly disclosed because there was no evidence of Vestex providing 
the services to justify them. 

       43.    Davis continued to fail to substantiate the propriety of Chancellor’s related party 
disclosures in the financial statements included in the second amended Form 10-KSB-A, filed in 
June 2000 for the year ended December 31, 1998.  When that filing was being prepared, Adley 
gave Davis a draft memo that listed the supposed components of the $3.3 million Vestex fees; 
however, Davis did not take any steps to verify its accuracy.   Davis nevertheless signed the  
Metcalf Davis audit report, which expressed an unqualified opinion as to Chancellor’s revised 
restated financial statements.  

       44.    Davis signed the Metcalf Davis audit reports for the misleading Forms 10-KSB 
and 10-KSB-A filed by Chancellor for the year ended December 31, 1999, which continued to 
falsely reflect the nature and validity of the fees that Vestex was supposed to have earned in 
connection with the MRB transaction and the fees that it still had the potential to earn. 

       45.    Metcalf Davis issued its audit report on Chancellor’s 1998 financial statements 
before its concurring partner completed his review.  Metcalf Davis also issued unqualified 
reports on both of Chancellor’s restated 1998 financial statements, filed in 2000, without any 
concurring partner review.   

       46.    Davis reviewed and approved Chancellor’s Forms 10-QSB for the fiscal quarters 
ended March 31, 1999, June 30, 1999, September 30, 1999, March 31, 2000, June 30, 2000, and 
September 30, 2000, which, as described above, were materially misleading in their description 
and treatment of the Vestex fees.  Davis also reviewed and approved language in Chancellor’s 
Forms 10-QSB for the first three quarters of 2000 which failed to meaningfully disclose Adley’s 
misuse of Chancellor loan proceeds from a line of credit, without sufficient evidence to 
determine the nature of the transaction to which the Forms 10-QSB referred. 

                                               10
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

       Davis and Metcalf Davis Engaged In Improper Professional Conduct 

       47.    Davis and Metcalf Davis violated applicable professional standards in connection 
with the audit of Chancellor’s 1998 and 1999 financial statements, which did not comport with 
GAAP.  They did so knowingly or recklessly, or acted highly unreasonably in circumstances 
where they knew or should have known that heightened scrutiny was warranted.  

       48.    GAAS requires that auditors conducting an audit exercise due professional care 
and maintain a proper level of professional skepticism. (Codification of Statements on Auditing 
Standards (1998) (“AU”) - AU 230.01; AU 230.07).   Auditing standards also require auditors to  
obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion 
regarding the financial statements under audit. (AU 326.01; AU 326.21; AU 326.22).  Under 
GAAS, representations from management are not a substitute for the application of auditing 
procedures necessary to afford a reasonable basis for the auditor’s opinion. (AU 333.02). When 
an auditor becomes aware of information concerning a possible illegal act, the auditor should 
obtain an understanding of the nature of the act, the circumstances in which it occurred, and 
sufficient other information to evaluate the effect on the financial statements. (AU 317.10).  An 
auditor has a responsibility to perform an audit to obtain reasonable assurance that material 
misstatements in financial statements due to fraud are detected.  (AU 312.08; AU 316.01).  If 
management does not provide satisfactory information that there has been no illegal act or if an 
auditor becomes aware of a possible illegal act, GAAS require additional audit steps to be 
performed, such as confirming a significant transaction with other parties to the transaction. (AU 
317.11). 

       49.    With respect to related-party transactions, GAAS require that auditors obtain 
sufficient evidence to understand the purpose, nature, extent and financial statement effect of the 
transactions. (AU 334.09).  They must plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
as to whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  If the auditor is unable 
to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter or determines that the financial statements do not 
comport with GAAP, GAAS provide that the auditor should express a qualified or an adverse 
opinion and should provide the correct information in his reports. (AU 431.03; AU 508.22, 
508.23; AU 508.35). 

       50.     Davis and Metcalf Davis failed to exercise due professional care or obtain 
sufficient competent evidential matter to verify that the MRB acquisition was properly recorded. 
They knew that management’s insistence on a 1998 acquisition date resulted in a significant 
increase in reported revenues, so that heightened scrutiny of the acquisition date was needed. 
However, they failed to extend the audit procedures to confirm with the MRB shareholders the 
existence of control in 1998. 

       51.     Davis and Metcalf Davis failed to critically assess documents they suspected 
might have been fabricated by Chancellor’s management.  The predecessor auditors described to 
Metcalf Davis the sequence of events by which they received the First Amendment (i.e. the prior 

                                               11
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

auditors identified specific deficiencies in the Management Agreement and then the company 
came forward with the First Amendment that seemed on its face to correct the issues). 
Moreover, the predecessor auditors told Metcalf Davis that they had questions about the 
authenticity of the First Amendment.  Davis and Metcalf Davis did not question anyone at 
Chancellor about the authenticity of the documents during the audit.   In spite of concern that the  
documents might have been fabricated by Chancellor’s management, Davis relied on the 
documents as support for the 1998 acquisition date.  He failed to maintain a proper level of 
professional skepticism, as required by GAAS.  

       52.    Davis and Metcalf Davis further failed to comply with GAAS when they failed to 
report to Chancellor’s audit committee the possibility that the company’s senior management had 
fraudulently created the First Amendment. 

       53.    Davis and Metcalf Davis further failed to comply with GAAS in connection with 
the review of the accounting for Chancellor’s fee to Vestex related to the MRB transaction.  They 
failed to obtain sufficient evidential matter to support recording the Vestex fee, particularly 
evidence sufficient to understand the purpose, nature, extent and financial statement effect of this 
related party transaction, as required by GAAS.  They also failed to exercise the required 
professional skepticism.  

       54.    Davis and Metcalf Davis knew from Chancellor’s 1997 Form 10-KSB, and the 
prior auditors’ work papers and management letter that fees to Vestex had been written off in the 
prior years because they were not verifiable and were booked when not earned.  They ignored 
indications that the MRB-related Vestex fees were similarly unsupportable.  They knew that 
Chancellor’s management had not responded to Davis’s requests for documents evidencing the 
services for which the fees were charged.  They improperly relied on management’s unsupported 
oral representations that the services had been rendered rather than following GAAS by 
extending audit procedures to Vestex. 

       55.    Davis and Metcalf Davis knew that capitalizing the MRB-related Vestex fee 
resulted in Chancellor materially increasing its reported assets and income.  They recklessly 
disregarded specific GAAP requirements stating that these costs should be expensed.  They 
thereby failed to exercise due professional care.  

       56.    Metcalf Davis failed to comply with its quality control procedures by filing its 
report on Chancellor’s 1998 financial statements before its concurring partner had completed his 
concurring partner review. (AU 161.02).  Metcalf Davis further failed to comply with its 
procedures by issuing unqualified reports on both of Chancellor’s restated 1998 financial 
statements filed in 2000, without any concurring partner review. 

                                               12
 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

       C.     SECURITIES LAW VIOLATIONS
 

       57.    Section 10A(a)(l) of the Exchange Act requires auditors to design audit 
procedures that reasonably assure detection of illegal acts that have a material effect on financial 
statements.  Section 10A(b)(1) of the Exchange Act provides that if in the course of an audit an 
accountant learns that an illegal act may have occurred, the accountant must take further steps 
and ensure that the issuer’s audit committee is adequately informed of the illegal acts that have 
been detected. SEC v. Solucorp Industries Ltd., 197 F. Supp. 2d 4, 10 (S.D.N.Y. 2002) (auditor 
may be found liable for failure to notify audit committee of concern that contract supporting 
revenue recognition might be backdated; motion for summary judgment on Section 10A count 
denied). 

       58.    Davis and Metcalf Davis had information indicating that Chancellor’s senior 
management might have fraudulently created the First Amendment to the Management 
Agreement in order to support Chancellor’s accounting position regarding the appropriate 
consolidation date for MRB.  They took no steps to confirm the existence of the First 
Amendment with the MRB shareholders in accordance with GAAS.  Accordingly, they willfully 
violated Section 10A(a)(1) by failing to determine whether or not senior management had 
committed fraud. 

       59.    Davis and Metcalf Davis willfully violated Section 10A(b)(1) when they failed to 
inform Chancellor’s audit committee of the suspected senior management fraud.  

       60.    Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder require 
issuers with securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act to file quarterly and 
annual reports with the Commission and to keep this information current.  Exchange Act Rule 
12b-20 requires that all reports filed pursuant to Section 13 contain all additional information 
necessary to ensure that the statements made in them are not misleading.  The obligation to file 
such reports embodies the requirement that they be true and correct. See, e.g., SEC v. Savoy 
Indus., Inc., 587 F.2d 1149, 1165 (D.C. Cir. 1978), cert. denied                                                    , 440 U.S. 913 (1979). 

       61.    Davis’ conduct resulted in issuance of unqualified audit reports on the 1998 and 
1999 financial statements contained in the Forms 10-KSB, which were materially misleading. 
He reviewed and approved the company’s 1999 and 2000 quarterly reports.  Davis knew that 
there was no evidence to support recording the Vestex related party fee in Chancellor’s records 
and knew or was reckless in not knowing that the accounting treatment for the fee did not 
conform to GAAP.  In connection with Chancellor’s restatement adjustments, Davis aided and 
abetted and caused Chancellor’s violations by again issuing an unqualified auditors’ reports on 
the restatements, even though he knew or was reckless in not knowing that Chancellor’s removal 
of $2.2 million in fees in the restatements was unsupportable and that there were no documents 
to support the remaining $1.1 million of expenses recorded in the restatements. 

       62.    Metcalf Davis issued audit reports on Chancellor’s 1998 and 1999 financial 
statements and its restated financial statements filed in 2000, which falsely stated that 

                                               13
 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

Chancellor’s financial statements were fairly presented in conformity with GAAP and that the 
firm’s audits had been conducted in accordance with GAAS.  Metcalf Davis aided and abetted 
and caused the issuance of the misleading financial statements due to a systemic lack of controls 
at Metcalf Davis.  Davis himself was responsible for the firm’s quality control function.  Further, 
Metcalf Davis violated its own procedures by issuing its report on Chancellor’s 1998 financial 
statements before its concurring partner had completed his review and by issuing unqualified 
reports on both of Chancellor’s restated 1998 and 1999 financial statements without any 
concurring partner review. 

       63.    By filing materially misleading Forms 10-KSB and 10-KSB-A for fiscal years 
ended December 31, 1998 and December 31, 1999 and 1999 and 2000 quarterly reports , 
Chancellor violated Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-1 and 13a-13 
thereunder.  Davis and Metcalf Davis willfully aided and abetted and caused Chancellor’s 
violations of these provisions. 

       D.     FINDINGS 

       64.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Davis willfully committed  
violations of Section 10A of the Exchange Act. 

       65.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Davis willfully aided and  
abetted and caused Chancellor’s violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b­
20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder. 

       66.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Davis engaged in improper 
professional conduct pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii), as defined by Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(A), of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, by recklessly engaging in conduct that resulted in violations of 
professional standards in connection with the 1998 and 1999 Chancellor audits.7 

       67.    Based on the foregoing the Commission finds that Davis, pursuant to Rule 
102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, willfully violated and willfully aided and 
abetted Chancellor’s violations of the Federal securities laws and rules thereunder. 

       68.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that  Metcalf Davis willfully 
committed violations of Section 10A of the Exchange Act. 

       69.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Metcalf Davis willfully aided  
and abetted and caused Chancellor’s violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 
12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder. 

7 
       Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(A) defines “improper professional conduct” under Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) 
as “intentional or knowing conduct, including reckless conduct, that results in a violation of 
applicable professional standards.” 
                                               14
 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

       70.     Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that  Metcalf Davis engaged in 
improper professional conduct pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii), as defined by Rule 
102(e)(1)(iv)(A), of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, by recklessly engaging in conduct that 
resulted in violations of professional standards in connection with the 1998 and 1999 Chancellor 
audits. 

       71.     Based on the foregoing the Commission finds that Metcalf Davis, pursuant to 
Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, willfully violated and willfully aided 
and abetted Chancellor’s violations of the Federal securities laws and rules thereunder. 

                                               IV. 

                                         Undertakings 

       Respondent Metcalf Davis has agreed to the following undertakings: 

       1.      Metcalf Davis will not perform any audit services for any public company for a 
period of one (1) year from the date of entry of this order. 

       2.      If Metcalf Davis engages in public company accounting, Metcalf Davis will 
incorporate into its quality control system specific procedures that are designed to provide 
reasonable assurances that all public company audits are performed, supervised, reviewed, 
documented, and communicated in accordance with the relevant professional, regulatory and 
firm requirements.  Metcalf Davis will maintain a professional development program designed to 
provide reasonable assurances that personnel serving public company audit clients participate in 
professional development activities in accordance with firm guidelines and in subjects relevant to 
their responsibilities, including but not limited to training in SEC rules and regulations. 

       3            Metcalf Davis will establish for personnel serving public company audit clients 
minimum qualifications for audit partners, senior managers, audit managers, audit seniors and 
concurring review partners that focus on experience in public company audits and experience in 
addressing significant accounting and auditing issues affecting the registrant’s business.  Metcalf 
Davis will establish procedures for documenting the qualifications, training and current 
responsibilities of senior audit personnel assigned to each public company audit engagement.  

       4.      Metcalf Davis will ensure that personnel assigned to public company audits have 
the experience, technical training and proficiency required in the circumstances.  Metcalf Davis 
will assign personnel based on such factors as: engagement size and complexity; specialized 
experience and expertise required; personnel availability and the involvement of supervisory 
personnel; timing of the work to be performed; and continuity and rotation of personnel. 

       5.      Should Metcalf Davis determine that it desires to engage in activities that require 
it to be registered with the PCAOB, prior to registering with the PCAOB, Metcalf Davis will hire 
an independent CPA consultant (the “Independent Consultant”), who is not unacceptable to the 

                                               15
 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

SEC staff.  Metcalf Davis will require the Independent Consultant to review and ensure the 
accuracy of the information to be provided to the PCAOB.  Metcalf Davis will require the 
Independent Consultant to review the firm’s established quality control system, including but not 
limited to those policies and procedures specific to public company audits.   Metcalf Davis will  
require the Independent Consultant to assess the adequacy of the design of the firm’s quality 
control system.  Additionally, Metcalf Davis will require the Independent Consultant to review 
the required documentation supporting the qualifications of the personnel to be assigned to 
public company audits.  Thereafter, Metcalf Davis will require the Independent Consultant to 
issue a report to the SEC and the PCAOB.  

       6.      Upon becoming registered with the PCAOB and performing audits of public 
companies, Metcalf Davis will require the Independent Consultant, during the first such audit, to 
review the audit to ensure that it is conducted in accordance with professional standards, 
including the standards of the PCAOB, generally accepted accounting principles and 
independence requirements.  The review will include, but not be limited to, a review of all audit 
work papers, discussions with assigned audit personnel and inquiries regarding significant 
accounting and auditing matters.  Thereafter, Metcalf Davis will require the Independent 
Consultant to issue a review report to the SEC and the PCAOB that describes the procedures 
performed.  Further, Metcalf Davis will require the Independent Consultant to provide either a 
negative assurance that the audit was conducted in accordance with professional standards or, if 
necessary, indicate that he/she cannot make such an assurance.  Metcalf Davis will require the 
Independent Consultant to set forth the reasons that he/she was not able to provide a negative 
assurance. 

       7.      Metcalf Davis agrees to require the Independent Consultant, if and when retained, 
to enter into an agreement that provides that for the period of engagement and for a period of two 
years from completion of the engagement, the Independent Consultant shall not enter into any 
employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with Metcalf 
Davis, or any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in 
their capacity. The agreement will also provide that the Independent Consultant will require that 
any firm with which he/she is affiliated or of which he/she is a member, and any person engaged 
to assist the Independent Consultant in performance of his/her duties under this Order shall not, 
without prior written consent of the staff of the Boston District Office, enter into any 
employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with Metcalf 
Davis, or any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in 
their capacity as such for the period of the engagement and for a period of two years after the 
engagement. 

                                                16
 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

                                               V. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     Davis shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Section 10A of the Exchange Act; and from causing any violations and any 
future violations of Sections 13(a) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 
promulgated thereunder; 

       B.     Davis is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant. 

       C.     After five (5) years from the date of this order, Davis may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
     
              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Davis’ work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
     
              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
     
                      a.     Davis, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) in accordance with 
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      b.     Davis, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      c.     Davis has resolved all disciplinary issues, if any, with the PCAOB, 
and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the PCAOB (other 
than reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      d.     Davis acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Davis appears or 
practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all requirements 

                                               17
 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

of the Commission and the PCAOB, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to 
registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.  
     
       D.     The Commission will consider an application by Davis to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues, if any, with the applicable state boards of accountancy. 
However, if state licensure is dependant on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission 
will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include 
consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Davis’ 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 

       E.     Metcalf Davis shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations 
and any future violations of Section 10A of the Exchange Act; and from committing or causing 
any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 12b­
20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 promulgated thereunder; 

       F.     Metcalf Davis is censured pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1). 

       G.     Metcalf Davis shall comply with the undertakings set forth in Section IV above. 

       By the Commission. 

                                            Jonathan G. Katz 
                                            Secretary 

                                               18
 
