---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                               STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                        the 

                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 51607 / April 26, 2005 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2238 / April 26, 2005 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-11911 
 
                                                  
In the Matter of                                 ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
       DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP,                    PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
       STEVEN H. BARRY, CPA, and                 COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
       KAREN T. BAKER, CPA,                 MAKING FINDINGS AND IMPOSING 
                                                 REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
Respondents.                                       
 
                                              
                                             I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Deloitte & Touche LLP 
(“Deloitte”), Steven H. Barry, CPA (“Barry”) and Karen T. Baker, CPA (“Baker”) (collectively, 
the “Respondents”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.1 
                                                                                    
                                              
                                            II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, each Respondent has submitted an  
Offer of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the  
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative 
Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings and 
Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   
                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
       The Commission may censure a person or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or   
practicing before it to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct.                            
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
                                               III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds 2
                                                                                  that: 
 
A. SUMMARY 
 
       1.      This matter concerns improper professional conduct within the meaning of Rule 
102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice by the Respondents in connection with the 
audit of <comp.>Just for Feet, Inc.</>’s (“Just for Feet” or the “Company”) financial statements for the 
Company’s 1998 fiscal year ended January 30, <date.>1999</> (the “1998 financial statements”). 
 
       2.      Just for Feet’s 1998 financial statements included in its annual report for fiscal 1998 
on Form 10-K, filed with the Commission on April 30, 1999, were materially   false and misleading, 
overstated <item.>net income</> and <item.>net assets</>, and failed to comply with generally accepted accounting 
principles (“GAAP”).  Just for Feet falsified its financial statements by (1) improperly recognizing 
unearned and fictitious <item.>receivables</> and <item.>revenue</> from its vendors, (2) failing to properly account for 
and to disclose problems with obsolete inventory, and (3) improperly recording as income the 
value of display booths provided by its vendors.  These fraudulent financial statements were also 
included in a Form S-8 registration statement Just for Feet filed with the Commission on May 3, 
1999, through the incorporation by reference of the Company’s 1998 Form 10-K.  They were also 
included in a Form S-4 registration statement the Company filed with the Commission on June 14, 
1999. 
 
       3. The Respondents reasonably        should have known that Just for Feet’s 1998 financial 
statements had not been prepared in accordance with GAAP.  They nonetheless issued an 
unqualified audit report on Just for Feet’s 1998 financial statements  that represented that Just for  
Feet’s financial statements were free of material misstatements and were presented in conformity  
with GAAP and that the auditors had adhered to generally accepted auditing standards (“GAAS”) 
when they performed the 1998 audit.  This audit report was included in Just for Feet’s 1998 Form  
10-K and was incorporated by reference in the Form S-8 registration statement.  The audit report 
was also included in the Form S-4 registration statement. Deloitte issued consent letters agreeing to 
the inclusion of its audit report with these registration statements. 
 
       4.      The Respondents did not comply with GAAS in the conduct of the audit and 
engaged in improper professional conduct as described herein within the meaning of Rule 
102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice through repeated instances of unreasonable  
conduct. 
 

                                                 
2
 The findings herein are made pursuant to the Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
                                                2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

B. RESPONDENTS 
 
       5.     Deloitte & Touche LLP is a national accounting firm headquartered in New York, 
New York with offices located throughout the United States, including Birmingham, Alabama.   
        
       6.     Steven H. Barry, CPA, 52, of Birmingham, Alabama, is licensed as a certified 
public accountant in Alabama.  He joined the Birmingham office of Touche Ross and Co. 
(“Touche Ross”), a Deloitte predecessor firm, in 1976, becoming a partner in 1988.  He became 
the managing partner of Deloitte’s Birmingham office in 1996 and remains in that position. Barry 
was the engagement partner during Deloitte’s audit of Just for Feet’s 1998 financial statements.  
 
       7.     Karen T. Baker, CPA, 43, of Birmingham, Alabama, is licensed as a certified 
public accountant in Alabama.  She joined the Birmingham office of Touche Ross in 1989, 
becoming a manager in 1995. Baker was initially assigned to the Just for Feet engagement in 1993 
as an audit senior and became the Just for Feet audit manager in 1995. She was the audit manager 
during Deloitte’s audit of Just for Feet’s 1998 financial statements.  
 
C. THE COMPANY 
 
       8.     Just for Feet, Inc., a Delaware corporation based in Birmingham, Alabama, was a 
national retailer of athletic and outdoor footwear and apparel. The Company was founded in 1977 
and hired Deloitte as its independent auditor in 1993. Deloitte was Just for Feet’s independent 
auditor when Just for Feet went public in 1994 and audited Just for Feet’s financial statements for 
the Company’s fiscal years between January 31, 1995 and January 30, 1999.  Just for Feet 
expanded rapidly during these years, showing rising asset, revenue and earnings trends between 
1994 and 1998 that reflected this rapid growth. The Company’s common stock was traded on the 
NASDAQ National Market System. Just for Feet’s fiscal 1998 financial statements included a 
balance sheet with assets of $689.4 million and an income statement showing net income of $26.6 
million, based on revenues of $774.9 million. Just for Feet claimed in its fiscal 1998 Form 10-K 
that it had become the leading operator of large format superstores specializing in brand-name  
athletic and outdoor footwear and apparel.  In  November 1999, only a few months after presenting 
this positive financial picture, Just for Feet filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy 
Code.  Deloitte resigned as Just for Feet’s auditor in December 1999, after earning $351,756 in 
fees for its work on the fiscal 1998 audit.  Just for Feet’s bankruptcy case was converted to a 
Chapter 7 liquidation proceeding in 2000.  
        
       9.     After Just for Feet filed for bankruptcy protection, it emerged that several of the 
Company’s officers had been fraudulently increasing its income by using a variety of schemes, at  
times in collusion with outside vendors who provided false confirmation responses to Deloitte, 
from at least late 1996 through the filing of the fiscal 1998 Form 10-K in April 1999.  The 
revelation of these schemes has resulted in a number of civil and criminal prosecutions by the 
Commission and the Department of Justice, respectively. 
 
 
 

                                               3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
D.	    JUST FOR FEET AS A “GREATER THAN NORMAL” ENGAGEMENT RISK AUDIT 
       CLIENT 
 
       10.    In connection with the audit of Just For Feet’s financial statements for fiscal year 
1997, the Respondents identified Just for Feet’s engagement risk as “greater than normal.”  One  
workpaper stated that Just for Feet’s “management accepts high levels of risk, places significant 
emphasis on earnings, and has historically interpreted accounting standards aggressively.” The 
workpaper further stated that there had been a “significant number of misstatements noted in past 
audits.”  Another Deloitte audit workpaper assessing fraud and engagement risk stated that Just for 
Feet’s management appeared willing to accept unusually high levels of risk, appeared to place 
undue emphasis on achieving the planned amount of earnings or growth targets, had excessive 
interest to maintain the entity’s stock price through the use of unusually aggressive accounting 
practices, and engaged in unique and highly complex transactions close to year end.  Another 
Deloitte audit workpaper from fiscal 1997 entitled “Risk Factors Worksheet” indicated that Just for 
Feet management had “one man rule (autocrat)” and that Just for Feet practiced “creative 
accounting.”     
 
       11.    The Respondents were therefore aware of numerous risk factors prior to and during 
the audit of the 1998 financial statements.  The audit workpapers prepared as part of that audit and 
reviewed by Barry and Baker listed some of the same risk factors that had been identified the 
previous year and rated the level of audit risk as “greater than normal.” 
               
       12.    Deloitte maintained a National Risk Management Program for audit engagements 
assessed to have “much greater than normal” audit risk and for select engagements assessed to 
have “greater than normal” audit risk.  Just for  Feet was included in this program beginning in 
1997 and continuing after that.  Under this program, a Deloitte partner designated as a National  
Review Partner was to provide an additional level of consultation and review.  This partner’s duties  
included discussing specific risk areas and plans to respond to them, consulting with the  
engagement and concurring partners, reviewing the audit workpapers concerning risk areas of the 
engagement, and reviewing the financial statements and Deloitte’s audit report with an emphasis 
on the identification of specific risk areas as well as the adequacy of the audit report and 
disclosures regarding these risk areas.  At the end of an engagement, the National Review Partner 
was to complete a memorandum to Deloitte’s National Office confirming that he had completed 
his duties as National Review Partner and assessing whether adequate attention and resources had 
been dedicated to the management of the risks of the engagement.   
 
       13.    The Respondents were also aware of two specific identified audit risk areas that 
pertained to Just for Feet.  Deloitte’s audit procedures manual included a 1996 Risk Alert 
identifying vendor allowances as a high risk area for retailers in general.  The Risk Alert 
specifically stated that “Although there are variations in practice for the treatment of vendor 
allowances, we would assume that most allowances would be regarded as a reduction of 
merchandise cost in order that the inventory is carried at the lowest and most conservative value.  
However, in practice many retailers will treat allowances for reimbursement of advertising costs  
and market development as a direct offset to the  P&L.”  Just for Feet’s disclosed practice was to 

                                               4
  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

treat its allowances as reductions in advertising expense. In addition, “Client Risk Profile” forms 
prepared by Deloitte concerning Just for Feet for 1997 and 1998 each identified inventory 
valuation as a risk area. 
 
       14.    In planning for the audit of Just for Feet’s fiscal 1998 financial statements, the 
Respondents appropriately identified risks presented by the audit and planned the conduct of the 
audit to address them.  However, the Respondents did not properly implement this plan in that they  
failed to exercise due professional care and skepticism, failed to obtain sufficient competent 
evidential matter, and placed undue reliance on estimates provided by Just for Feet’s management.  
As a result, Respondents improperly stated that they had conducted their audit in accordance with 
GAAS and that the Just for Feet financial statements were prepared in conformity with GAAP.  
Further, as to Deloitte, the firm’s National Risk Management Program did not function adequately 
in connection with this audit. 
 
E.     JUST FOR FEET’S 1998 VENDOR  ALLOWANCES AND CO-OP RECEIVABLES 
        
       15.    Just for Feet incurred large amounts  of advertising expenses. Most of the 
Company’s vendors offered financial  assistance through unwritten agreements to Just for Feet to 
help pay for these expenses. This assistance was termed “advertising co-op” or “vendor 
allowances.”  After Just for Feet advertised a product and paid for the advertising, the Company 
often was required to submit an advertisement to the vendor for approval before a co-op credit was  
recorded. Each vendor limited the amount of advertising co-op dollars it allowed to Just for Feet 
over a given period of time because co-op dollars were usually based on the amount of 
merchandise that Just for Feet purchased from that particular vendor.  Another type of co-op 
described as “discretionary” co-op was only provided at the discretion of the vendor.  Still another 
type of co-op known as “margin enhancement” was provided by vendors to assist retailers when  
profit margins on goods sold were not as great as expected.   
        
       16.    Generally, Just for Feet was required by GAAP to refrain from recognizing these 
vendor allowances and the related receivables until the revenue was earned or realizable.  By 
booking unearned and bogus vendor allowances, often recorded as discretionary or margin 
enhancement co-op, and by offsetting all of these vendor allowances against advertising expense,  
the Company overstated its net assets and net income before taxes by at least $19 million for fiscal 
1998. 
               
       17.    The Respondents identified these vendor allowances as a specific identified risk 
area in which Just for Feet might recognize invalid receivables and income, but nonetheless 
failed to comply with GAAS by failing to obtain sufficient, competent evidential matter to 
determine whether these co-op receivables and the related income were actually earned.  
Deloitte, Barry and Baker were presented with a series of factors that called for heightened 
professional skepticism.  These factors included: 
 
              a.      Just for Feet claimed that it had approximately $28.9 million in outstanding 
       co-op credits due to it on January 30, 1999, the end of fiscal 1998.  This figure was more 
       than seventy times greater than the $408,000 in outstanding co-op credits due to Just for 

                                               5
  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       Feet at the end of the previous fiscal year.  Just for Feet reported total co-op credits of  
       $32.7 million for fiscal year 1998 and $14.4 million for fiscal year 1997. 
                       
               b.     Of the total amount claimed, $23.8 million, purportedly due from forty 
       vendors, was booked with the involvement of a particular Just for Feet Vice-President (the 
       “Vice-President”) who worked in neither the Accounting nor the Advertising Departments. 
 
               c.     Of this $23.8 million, $14.4 million, equivalent to one-third of Just for  
       Feet’s claimed pre-tax income, was the result of adjustments recorded approximately five 
       weeks after the end of the 1998 fiscal year. 
 
               d.     Just for Feet’s Director of Financial Reporting brought to Baker’s attention 
       a journal entry recording $11.3 million in co-op receivables on which he noted that the 
       Vice President would provide supporting information to justify recording the receivable.   
       No such information was provided to Respondents.    
 
               e.     Just for Feet collected none of these purported co-op receivables due to it 
       from the January 30, 1999 end of its fiscal 1998 year through April 23, 1999, the date of 
       Deloitte’s audit report. 
 
               f.     The Respondents were aware that Just for Feet offset its co-op receivables 
       against advertising expense or cost of sales, allowing them to be used to increase income 
       immediately.  This was troublesome because many of the purported receivables were for 
       “discretionary” or “margin enhancement” co-op, both of which de  pended on merchandise 
       purchases by Just for Feet.  In a Risk Alert issued in January 1996, Deloitte specifically 
       identified vendor allowance transactions as a risk factor.  The Risk Alert stated, “Although 
       there are variations in practice for the treatment of vendor allowances, we would assume 
       that most allowances would be regarded as a reduction of merchandise co  st in order that the 
       inventory is carried at the lowest and most  conservative value.  However, in practice many 
       retailers will treat allowances for reimbursement of advertising costs and market  
       development as a direct offset to the P&L.”  The Risk Alert noted that offsetting 
       allowances against advertising expense could cause a retailer to get “ahead” by reducing its 
       operating expense faster than the allowances were actually earned. 
 
       18.     The Respondents decided to confirm the receivables claimed from thirteen of the 
vendors who purportedly owed $22 million of the $28.9 million.  As part of this process, the 
auditors sent out thirteen confirmation requests in March 1999 relating to the claimed receivables.  
Each letter asked that the recipient confirm that Just for Feet had a credit due of a particular 
amount as of January 30, 1999 and that these amounts related to advertising that ran or 
merchandise sold prior to January 30, 1999.  Five vendors returned non-standard letters that, 
instead of unambiguously confirming amounts owed to Just for Feet at the end  of the fiscal 1998 
year, as requested by the auditors, provided ambiguous information on amounts of co-op that the 
Company had earned, accrued, or had available during the year.  One of the letters affirmatively 
stated that the “total amount, according to [the vendor allowance] agreement is $741,271.00.  No 
additional funds are due to JFF” and included information listing the credits that had been awarded 

                                                6
  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

during the year.  If the Respondents had more fully evaluated this vendor response, they would 
have seen that it was related to vendor allowances other than those they were trying to confirm.  
Another vendor returned a confirmation prior to the date of the audit report for only a portion of 
Just for Feet’s claimed receivable.   This vendor  returned a confirmation for the amount Just for 
Feet had earned during the year approximately six weeks after Just for Feet filed its fiscal 1998 
Form 10-K.  Despite having no written confirmation of the entire purported receivable, the 
Respondents accepted the amount claimed by Just for Feet.  Despite these and other flaws, the 
Respondents nonetheless accepted these letters as confirming approximately $16 million in 
receivables claimed by Just for Feet.  Certain vendors, acting in collusion with members of Just for 
Feet’s management, deliberately returned letters that falsely confirmed to Deloitte amounts of co-
op receivables that their companies purportedly owed to Just for Feet. 
        
       19.     The Respondents issued the audit report despite the presence of unresolved 
questions.  In May 1999, an audit senior sent an  e-mail message to Just for Feet’s Vice President,  
which was copied to Barry and Baker, updating the Vice President on the status of the 
confirmations and noting the need for explanations of discrepancies in the amounts confirmed by 
some vendors and the lack of responses from others.  In early October 1999, another audit senior  
sent an e-mail message to the Vice-President asking for his assistance in resolving a number of 
open items that remained from the audit.  One of the open items was “Explanations of differences 
in CO-OP confirmations received and amounts recorded.”  Thus, approximately five months after  
the filing of Just for Feet’s fiscal 1998 Form 10-K, and several months after Deloitte’s audit report 
was included in Just for Feet’s Forms S-8 and S-4, the Respondents were still attempting to resolve 
questions concerning co-op receivables that should have been addressed before the auditors issued  
their report.  The Respondents did not perform alternative procedures with respect to differences in 
confirmation amounts or non-replies sufficient to resolve such questions.  
                       
F.     JUST FOR FEET’S INVENTORY REPORTING AND OBSOLESCENCE RESERVE 
 
       20.     Just for Feet had a material amount of excess or obsolete inventory at the end of 
fiscal 1998, but failed to disclose this in its Form 10-K for that year and also failed to adjust its  
inventory obsolescence reserve to reflect the increase in its excess and unsaleable inventory. The 
Company left its inventory obsolescence reserve at $150,000, the same  level it had been the 
previous year, despite the fact that its reported inventory almost doubled during fiscal 1998 from 
$206 million to $400 million.  GAAP states that when the utility of goods is no longer as great as 
cost, due to obsolescence or other causes, the difference should be recognized as a loss in the 
current period by valuing the goods at market.  Just for Feet failed to value its inventory at the lower 
of cost or market as required by GAAP.    
                
       21.     The Respondents’ testing of Just for Feet’s inventory and its proposed reserve was 
inadequate and did not comply with GAAS.  Just for Feet and its officers, at the end of fiscal 1998, 
failed to prepare an aging analysis of the Company’s inventory, a tool for determining obsolescence 
and in recording the value of inventory at the lower of cost or market.  Deloitte’s audit manual 
provided guidance that auditors should review  inventory aging to determine what part of the 
inventory might be obsolete and, if an aging report did not exist, should inquire as to what  

                                                7
  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

methodology the retailer used to age its inventory so they could measure the quality and 
performance of the inventory. 
        
       22.    Deloitte tested Just for Feet’s obsolescence reserve for fiscal 1997 by testing the 
reasonableness of Just For Feet’s three-prong methodology for determining its reserve: (1) shoe 
styles and types with only four pairs or less, (2) shoes and apparel selling for less than cost, and (3) 
items that had not been sold in the previous twelve months.  All of these items were to be written 
down to the lower of cost or market as required by GAAP.  For the fiscal 1998 audit, the 
Respondents documented Just for Feet’s methodology and listed the same three assumptions as  
elements to be used in determining the reasonableness of the reserve.  The Respondents, however, 
did not effectively test items that had not been sold in the previous twelve months. 
    
       23.    For fiscal 1998, the Respondents accepted a reserve analysis that was prepared by 
the Company’s Vice President.  This analysis, however, explicitly included only two of the items 
used in the three-prong test from the previous year.  Just for Feet provided no information to the 
Respondents establishing that this analysis included  goods that had not sold within the last year but 
that had not been written down to the lower of cost or market. Nonetheless, the Respondents 
accepted this analysis. 
               
       24.    At the end of its fiscal 1998, Just for Feet stored $11.1 million in merchandise 
inventory in a warehouse location in northern New Jersey.  While the inventory in this warehouse 
was observed by Deloitte personnel, it was not included in the reserve analysis because this 
warehoused inventory was not included in the Company’s inventory system, a feature reflected in a 
Deloitte workpaper.  As a result, this inventory was not in the inventory analysis provided by the 
Vice President and accepted by the auditors. 
 
       25.    Even using the flawed inventory analysis provided by the Vice President and the  
deficient inventory information that excluded the goods in the New Jersey warehouse, the 
Respondents concluded that Just for Feet’s obsolescence reserve should have been in the range of 
$441,000 to over $1 million.  While the Respondents proposed that the obsolescence reserve be 
increased by $441,000, Just for Feet did not increase its reserve.   
        
G.     JUST FOR FEET’S ACCOUNTING FOR VENDOR BOOTH DISPLAYS 
        
       26.    Just for Feet encouraged its merchandise vendors to set up their own display booths 
inside Just for Feet stores to showcase products. Although Just for Feet and the vendors held 
periodic meetings to determine the number of booths each vendor would provide to Just for Feet, 
there were no written contracts and very little documentation concerning the booths.   
 
       27.    In December 1996, Just for Feet developed a fraudulent accounting scheme  
concerning these display booths that enabled it to increase net income.  Just for Feet ostensibly 
began to “buy” the booths it had previously received free of charge from the vendors. The 
Company did this by having each vendor bill Just for Feet for the booths it supplied while issuing 
to Just for Feet a corresponding “booth” co-op credit which could be applied against the cost of a 
merchandise purchase.  This credit had the effect of reducing advertising expense and thereby 

                                               8
  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

increasing net income.  These booth transactions were so structured for the purpose of generating 
income, and were not accounted for in conformity with GAAP.  
        
       28.     For the fiscal 1998 year, Just for Feet changed its process of accounting for booth 
assets and income to eliminate the involvement of the vendors. During the first month of fiscal  
year 1998, the Vice President simply estimated the dollar amount of booths that he expected Just  
for Feet to receive during the year, divided the  amount by twelve months, and started recording 
$174,362 per month of booth income.  When it recognized this inco me, Just for Feet also claimed a  
corresponding increase in its assets through its “purchase” of the booths. At the October 31, 1998 
end of the third quarter, in addition to the $174,362 per month, Just for Feet recorded another $5.2 
million of booth income for a total of approximately $5.4 million for that month. Just for Feet then 
recorded an additional $2.2 million of booth income over the remaining three months of the fiscal 
year. Although no cash or co-op credits actually changed hands between Just for Feet and the  
vendors during fiscal year 1998, the Company nonetheless increased its income before taxes by $9 
million during that fiscal year, approximately 20% of pre-tax income, through its new method of 
accounting for vendor booths. 
        
       29.     Although the Respondents received indications of how Just for Feet was accounting 
for booths, they failed to respond accordingly.  An audit  workpaper dated March 25, 1999, 
described Just for Feet’s accounting methodology for booths.  An analysis at the end of the 
workpaper, which Baker reviewed, showed that the net effect of Just for Feet’s booth-related journal 
entries was to increase assets with a corresponding increase in income.  The Respondents performed 
no further analysis to determine the basis and propriety of these journal entries.  The Respondents  
accepted management representations that pre-existing co-op credits were being used to pay for the 
booths and that the booth transactions therefore did not affect net income. 
    
       30.     Because the vendors did not bill Just for Feet for the booths during fiscal 1998, and 
because it received no corresponding co-op credits  during the year, neither the Company nor the 
auditors had internal evidence supporting the  recording of $9 million of booth assets. To 
substantiate this $9 million asset amount, the Company’s Vice President or the auditors prepared 
confirmation requests to the vendors to verify $8.4 million in amounts purportedly owed by Just  
for Feet for the booths.  The Vice President determined the amounts on the requests and another 
Just for Feet officer signed and sent them to various sales directors and corporate officers of the  
vendors.     
        
       31.     The confirmation requests asked the vendors to confirm that “the balance owed by 
Just for Feet, Inc. as of January 30, 1999 for store booths and fixtures shipped to them during the  
year ended January 30, 1999 is  $[amount varied by vendor].”  Although the letters actually were 
intended to confirm “payables,” the Respondents used the confirmation replies from the vendors to 
verify the value of the booths on Just for Feet’s books and records. They compiled a running total 
of these confirmations as they were returned as proof that Just for Feet had purchased the specified 
amount of booths.  The Respondents used the confirmations to  support the recorded $9 million 
booth asset amounts, which was equal to the amount of income Just for Feet had already recorded 
relating to its acquisition of the booths.  
        

                                                9
  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

       32.    As with the co-op receivables, the Respondents also received and accepted 
ambiguous replies to Just for Feet’s requests that its vendors confirm the amounts Just for Feet 
purportedly owed for the booths.  One vendor, for example, in response to a confirmation request 
sent a letter stating the value of the booths Just for Feet had received in 1998, but failed to confirm 
any amount the Company purportedly owed for these booths at the end of the year.  A second 
vendor supplied confirmations for differing amounts thereby causing Respondents to propose an  
adjustment to the financial statements.  Another vendor replied to a confirmation request by stating 
that Just for Feet had in fact billed the vendor for booth construction costs when Just for Feet’s 
claim was that it had bought the booths from the vendor.  An audit senior reviewed these 
confirmations and informed Barry and Baker that she was in some cases sending multiple 
confirmation requests to the vendors because many of their initial responses came back in forms 
different from that requested.  The Respondents failed to discover from these indications that Just 
for Feet might not actually be purchasing the booths as it claimed.   
        
H.	    OTHER ASPECTS OF THE JUST FOR FEET AUDIT  
 
       33.    Just for Feet’s inclusion in Deloitte’s National Risk Management Program required 
the appointment of a National Review Partner to assist in planning the audit of specific risk areas, 
review the workpapers related to these areas, review the financial statements and Deloitte’s report 
regarding these areas and complete a memorandum to the National Office assessing whether 
adequate attention had been devoted to these risk areas. 
        
       34.    In connection with the audit of Just for Feet’s fiscal 1998 financial statements, 
Deloitte did not determine that the National Review Partner had performed his prescribed 
procedures.  There is no documentation showing that the National Review Partner reviewed the 
audit workpapers relating to the specific risk areas identified for Just for Feet.  Moreover, the 
National Review Partner did not prepare a post-audit memorandum, as required by Deloitte’s 
procedures, assessing Deloitte’s efforts to address the audit risks associated with the Just for Feet 
engagement.  This lack of a written assessment by the National Review Partner is particularly 
notable as to Just for Feet’s inventory valuations and vendor allowances, as these were identified as  
risk areas in the Just for Feet audit.   
        
I. 	   THE RESPONDENTS ENGAGED IN IMPROPER PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT 
       WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
       PRACTICE  
 
       35.    Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides, in part, that the 
Commission may censure or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or  
practicing before the Commission to any person who is found by the Commission to have engaged 
in improper professional conduct.  Rule 102(e)(1)(iv) defines improper professional conduct with 
respect to persons licensed to practice as accountants. 
 
       36.    As applicable here, improper professional conduct means “[r]epeated instances of 
unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards, that 
indicate a lack of competence to practice before the Commission.”  Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2).  As 

                                              10
  
---------------------Page 11---------------------

stated below, the Respondents acted unreasonably in failing to require Just for Feet to comply with 
GAAP and in failing to comply with GAAS during its audit of the Company’s fiscal 1998 financial 
statements. 

        (a)    Professional Care and Skepticism, Evidential Matter and Management 
               Representations and Estimates. 
                
       37.     GAAS provides that “[d]ue professional care is to be exercised in the planning and 
performance of the audit and the preparation of the report.”  AU § 230.01.  Among other things, 
due professional care requires that an auditor exercise professional skepticism, defined as “an 
attitude that includes a questioning mind and a critical assessment of the audit evidence.” AU §  
230.07. “Gathering and objectively evaluating audit evidence requires the auditor to consider the  
competency and sufficiency of the evidence.”  AU § 230.08.  “In exercising professional  
skepticism, the auditor should not be satisfied with less than persuasive evidence because of a 
belief that management is  honest.”  AU § 230.09.   
                
       38.     GAAS also requires that "sufficient competent evidential matter is to be obtained 
through inspection, observations and confirmations to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion 
regarding the financial statements under audit." AU § 326.01.  “To be competent, evidence, 
regardless of its form, must be both valid and relevant.”  AU § 326.21.   In addition, the auditor 
should recognize "the possibility that the financial statements may not be fairly presented in 
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles" and should "consider relevant evidential 
matter regardless of whether it appears to corroborate or contradict the assertions in the financial 
statements."  AU § 326.25.  Management representations “are part of the evidential matter the 
independent auditor obtains, but they are not a substitute for the application of those auditing 
procedures necessary to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the financial  
statements.”  AU § 333.02. 
 
       39.     For information obtained through the confirmation process to be competent, it must 
be reliable and relevant.  AU § 330.11.  “When the auditor has not received replies to positive 
confirmation requests, he or she should apply alternative procedures to the nonresponses to obtain 
evidence necessary to reduce audit risk to an  acceptably low level.”  AU § 330.31.  For accounts  
receivable, alternative procedures may include an examination of subsequent cash receipts.  
Alternative procedures for accounts payable may include an “examination of subsequent cash 
disbursements, correspondence from third parties, or other records to provide evidence for the 
completeness assertion.”  AU § 330.32.  Finally, after any alternative procedures have been 
performed, the auditor should evaluate the combined evidence provided by the confirmations and 
alternative procedures, considering in particular “the nature of any exceptions, including the 
implications, both quantitative and qualitative, of  those exceptions. . . .”  AU § 330.33.     
 
       40.     AU § 342 provides guidance on obtaining sufficient competent evidential matter to 
audit significant accounting estimates in an entity’s financial statements.  “The auditor is  
responsible for evaluating the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management in the  
context of the financial statements  taken as a whole.”  AU § 342.04.   
 

                                               11
  
---------------------Page 12---------------------

       41.     The Respondents departed from these GAAS standards in each of the areas at issue 
in the audit of Just for Feet’s 1998 financial statements: (1) the co-op receivables; (2) the reserve 
for excess or obsolete inventory; and (3) booth accounting.   
 
       42.     Regarding the co-op receivables, the Respondents failed to exercise professional 
care and skepticism and failed to obtain sufficient, competent evidential matter either in the form 
of reliable and relevant confirmations or through alternative means.  They accepted certain co-op 
receivable confirmations as confirming amounts owed to Just for Feet when in fact they contained 
information that was ambiguous at best about how much co-op the Company had accrued or had 
available.  The Respondents failed to respond adequately to an assertion from one vendor that it 
owed “[n]o additional funds” to Just  for Feet and failed to consider this language as an exception to 
the confirmation request and its implications.  They accepted Just for Feet’s recognition of another 
co-op receivable it claimed after receiving a written confirmation for only part of the amount 
claimed; a confirmation for the full amount the Company had earned during the year was finally 
received seven weeks after the date of the audit report.  They performed no alternative procedures, 
such as determining if any of these claimed receivables had been collected, to verify the amount of 
receivables Just for Feet claimed.  In addition, except to confirm that other vendor allowances were 
related to “advertising that ran or merchandise  sold prior to January 30, 1999,” the Respondents 
failed to adequately consider whether Just for Feet’s practice of offsetting discretionary and margin 
enhancement co-op allowances against advertising expense or cost of sales, thus immediately 
increasing income, complied with GAAP. 
 
       43.     Regarding Just for Feet’s reserve for excess or obsolete inventory, the Respondents 
failed to exercise due professional care and skepticism, failed to obtain sufficient, competent 
evidential matter, substituted management’s representations for such competent evidential matter 
and, to that extent, failed adequately to evaluate management’s estimates in the context of the 
financial statements as a whole.  They failed to test Just for Feet’s reserve adequately to the extent 
they accepted a defective obsolescence reserve estimate from management and relied upon an 
inventory system that failed to include certain warehoused goods.   
 
       44.     Regarding Just for Feet’s booth accounting, the Respondents failed to exercise 
professional care and skepticism and failed to obtain sufficient, competent evidential matter in the 
form of reliable and relevant confirmations or through alternative means.  The Respondents did not 
heed sufficiently indications that Just for Feet may have been improperly recognizing income  
through the acquisition of vendor display booths and failed to consider that this would mean that 
the financial statements did not conform to GAAP.  They accepted management representations 
that pre-existing co-op credits were being used to pay for the booths and that the booth transactions  
therefore did not affect net income.  Respondents also accepted confirmations from vendors that 
confirmed amounts payable by Just for Feet rather than amounts purportedly spent buying the 
display booths and, in some instances, that contained evidence contradicting Just for Feet’s 
representations. 
 
       45.     GAAS requires that an auditing firm should establish “quality control policies and 
procedures to provide it with reasonable assurance of conforming with generally accepted auditing 
standards in its audit engagements.”  AU § 161.02. An auditing firm should have in place a 

                                               12
  
---------------------Page 13---------------------

process to provide it with “reasonable assurance  that its personnel comply with applicable 
professional standards and the firm’s standards  of quality.”  AICPA Professional Standards, QC § 
20.03.  As part of its system of quality control, an audit firm is required to establish policies and 
procedures to provide it with “reasonable assurance that the work performed by engagement  
personnel meets applicable professional standards [and] regulatory requirements.”  QC § 20.17.  In 
connection with the fiscal 1998 audit, Deloitte’s National Risk Management Program was not 
adhered to and did not function properly, and so did not determine if identified risk areas had been 
adequately addressed, despite Just for Feet's status as a “greater than normal” risk client. 
               
       (b)    Standards of Reporting 
 
       46.    GAAS provides that “[t]he report shall  state whether the financial statements are 
presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.”  AU § 410.01.  GAAS  
also requires that the auditor’s report express an opinion on the financial statements as a whole and  
contain a clear indication of the character of the  auditor’s work.  AU § 508.04.  An auditor can 
issue an audit report with an unqualified opinion only if he has conducted the audit in accordance  
with GAAS.  AU § 508.07.  The Respondents departed from these GAAS provisions through the 
expression of the opinion that Just for Feet’s financial statements were presented in conformity 
with GAAP and through the statement that the auditors had conducted the audit in accordance with 
GAAS.  As discussed above, the Respondents should reasonably have known that Just for Feet’s  
financial statements were not presented in conformity with GAAP and that they had not conducted 
their audit in accordance with GAAS.   
               
K. CONCLUSION          AND UNDERTAKING 
 
       47.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that the Resp ondents engaged in 
improper professional conduct within the meaning of Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules  
of Practice.  Specifically, the Respondents engaged in repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, 
each resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence 
to practice before the Commission 
 
       48.    Within 10 days of the issuance of this Order, Deloitte undertakes to pay $375,000                
to the U.S. Treasury.  The payment shall be delivered or mailed to the Office of Financial 
Management, Securities and Exchange Commission, Operations Center, 6432 General Green 
Way, Mail Stop 0-3, Alexandria, Virginia 22312, and shall be accompanied by a letter 
identifying Deloitte as a respondent in this action, setting forth the title and Exchange Act 
Release Number of this action and specifying that payment is made pursuant to this undertaking.  
 
       49.    In determining to accept Deloitte’s offer, the Commission has considered the 
undertaking set forth above and Deloitte’s willingness to undertake measures to enhance its 
National Risk Management Program as detailed in  another order issued simultaneously concerning 
Deloitte’s audit of the financial statements of Adelphia Communications Corporation entitled In 
the Matter of Deloitte & Touche LLP, Exchange Act Release No. 34-51606 (April 26, 2005). 
 
 

                                              13
  
---------------------Page 14---------------------

 
                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in the Respondents’ Offers. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
A.     Deloitte is censured pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
B.     Barry and Baker are each denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant. 
 
C.     After two years from the date of the Order, Barry may request that the Commission 
consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) 
to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
        
       1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, of any 
public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such an application 
must satisfy the Commission that Barry’s work in his practice before the Commission will be 
reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company  for which he works or  
in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the Commission in this capacity, 
and/or 
 
       2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that: 
 
               (a)    Barry, or the public accounting firm  with which he is associated, is 
registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the “Board”) in accordance with 
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective;  
 
               (b)    Barry, or the registered accounting firm with which he is associated, has 
been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of or potential 
defects in Barry’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that Barry will not 
receive appropriate supervision or, if the Board has not conducted an inspection, has received an  
unqualified report relating to his, or the firm’s, most recent peer review conducted in accordance  
with the guidelines adopted by the former SEC Practice Section of the American Institute of  
Certified Public Accountants Division for CPA Firms or an organization providing equivalent 
oversight and quality control functions; 
 
               (c)    Barry has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has complied 
with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than reinstatement by 
the Commission); and 
 
               (d)    Barry acknowledges his responsibilit y, as long as he appears or practices 
before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all requirements of the 

                                               14
  
---------------------Page 15---------------------

Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, 
inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.    
 
D.     The Commission will consider an application by Barry to resume appearing or practicing 
before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has resolved all other 
disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, if state licensure is  
dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an application on 
its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters 
referenced above, any other matters relating to Barry’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or  
qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
E.     After one year from the date of the Order, Baker may request that the Commission consider 
her reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) to 
resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
        
       1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, of any 
public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such an application 
must satisfy the Commission that Baker’s work in her practice before the Commission will be 
reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company  for which she works or 
in some other acceptable manner, as long as she practices before the Commission in this capacity, 
and/or 
 
       2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that: 
 
               (a)    Baker, or the public accounting firm with which she is associated, is 
registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the “Board”) in accordance with 
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective;  
 
               (b)    Baker, or the registered accounting firm with which she is associated, has 
been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of or potential 
defects in Baker’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that Baker will not 
receive appropriate supervision or, if the Board has not conducted an inspection, has received an  
unqualified report relating to her, or the firm’s, most recent peer review conducted in accordance  
with the guidelines adopted by the former SEC Practice Section of the American Institute of  
Certified Public Accountants Division for CPA Firms or an organization providing equivalent 
oversight and quality control functions; 
 
               (c)    Baker has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has complied 
with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than reinstatement by 
the Commission); and 
 
               (d)    Baker acknowledges her responsibility,                        as long as she appears or practices 
before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all requirements of the 
Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, 
inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.    

                                                15
  
---------------------Page 16---------------------

 
F.       The Commission will consider an application by Baker to resume appearing or practicing 
before the Commission provided that her state CPA license is current and she has resolved all other 
disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, if state licensure is  
dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an application on 
its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters 
referenced above, any other matters relating to Baker’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
       Jonathan                                                                  G. Katz
       Secretary                                                               

                                                            16
  
