---------------------Page 1---------------------

   

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  

                                        Before the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 57339 / February 15, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No.  2787 / February 15, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-10354 

                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                          :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE
In the Matter of 
                          :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                          :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Jeffrey M. Yonkers, CPA 
                          :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                          :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION  
                          
        

       On July 27, 2001, Jeffrey M. Yonkers, CPA (“Yonkers”) was denied the privilege of 
appearing or practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of 
the Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                    Yonkers consented to the entry of the order without 
admitting or denying the findings therein.  This order is issued in response to Yonkers’ 
application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant 
responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed with the 
Commission. 

        The Commission alleged that the financial statements of <comp.>Detour Magazine, Inc.</> 
(“Detour”) contained in their filings with the Commission during <date.>1997</> and <date.>1998</>, as audited by 
Yonkers and others, materially misrepresented the company’s <item.>financial condition</> and <item.>results of 
operation</>.  Based upon his conduct during the audits of Detour’s financial statement, the 
Commission determined that Yonkers had willfully violated Section 10A of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and willfully aided and abetted Detour’s violations of 
Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder.  The Commission 
also determined that Yonkers engaged in improper professional conduct under Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice.  
 

                                                 
1 
 See  Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 1428 dated July 27, 2001.  Yonkers was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after one year upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                     

       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Yonkers 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Yonkers is not, at this time, seeking to appear 
or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume  
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be      
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Yonkers’ 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 
        
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Yonkers, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the July 27, 2001 order suspending 
him from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no information 
has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character,  integrity, professional 
conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis for adverse 
action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, and that 
Yonkers, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of any 
company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in his 
practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly,  
        
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Jeffrey M. Yonkers, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as 
an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                               
                                               
                                              Nancy M. Morris 
                                              Secretary 

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3)  
of this section may be made at any time, and the applic ant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated                         
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i).                        
 

                                                 2
 
