---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                             
 UNITED                              STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                       the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  54048 / June 27, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2447 / June 27, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12343 
 
                                                 
                                                 
In the Matter of                                ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE- 
      ACCOUNTING                           AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT 
      CONSULTANTS, INC., and                    TO SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                                EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND RULE 
      CAROL L. MCATEE, CPA,                     102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES 
                                                OF PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS AND 
Respondents.                                    IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND 
                                                A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER  
 
                                                
                                           I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Accounting 
Consultants, Inc., and Carol L. McAtee, CPA (collectively, “Respondents”), pursuant to Section 
21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice.1
                                             
                                           II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
                                                 
1
      Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before it . . . to 
any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over Respondents and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative 
and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds2
                                                                                  that:  
 
                                         Respondents 
 
       Carol L. McAtee (“McAtee”), age 43, of St. Petersburg, Florida, is a certified public 
accountant duly licensed in Florida.  She is the sole owner of Accounting Consultants, Inc., and 
was responsible for the year-end audits and quarterly reviews of PowerLinx, Inc.’s financial 
statements from June 1999 until November 2001.   
 
       Accounting Consultants, Inc. (“Accounting Consultants”), is a Florida corporation 
located in St. Petersburg, Florida.  Accounting Consultants was PowerLinx’s independent auditor 
for its fiscal years ended December 1999 and 2000.   
 
                                    Other Relevant Entity  
 
       <comp.>PowerLinx, Inc.</> (“PowerLinx”), is a Nevada corporation based in St. Petersburg, Florida.  
The company, which was known as SeaView Video Technology, Inc. during the relevant period, 
manufactures security video cameras, underwater cameras, and accessories.  PowerLinx is a 
reporting public company pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and is quoted on the OTC 
Bulletin Board under the symbol “PWNX.” 
                                                 
                                           Summary 
 
       During <date.>the first three quarters of 2000</>, PowerLinx improperly recognized nearly ninety 
percent of its reported <item.>revenues</> from fictitious sales.  The company initiated consignment 
arrangements with numerous third-party dealers and recorded the consignment order amounts as 
revenue before any products were actually shipped to dealers or sold to consumers pursuant to the 
consignment terms.  PowerLinx publicized its false revenues in almost-weekly press releases and 
in three consecutive quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Commission.  In April 2001, 
following a management change, PowerLinx restated its second- and third-quarter revenues as part 
of its 2000 annual report on Form 10-K.  However, PowerLinx’s restatement was incomplete and 

                                                 
2
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
 
                                               2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

misleading, and the financial statements included in its annual report contained other material 
instances of improper accounting.   
 
       Respondents performed quarterly reviews and a year-end audit of PowerLinx’s fiscal year 
2000 financial statements, but failed to conduct their review and audit procedures in accordance 
with Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (“GAAS”).  Accordingly, Respondents were a cause 
of PowerLinx’s violations of Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and Rules 15d-1, 15d-13, and 12b-
20 thereunder, and also engaged in improper professional conduct within the meaning of Rule 
102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
                          PowerLinx’s Improper Revenue Recognition 
 
              From 1999 through 2001 (the “relevant period”), PowerLinx’s business consisted of 
manufacturing and selling underwater video cameras and accessories, and it sold and shipped its 
products directly to consumers, mostly at boat shows.  3
                                                          During the first three quarters of fiscal year 
2000, PowerLinx fraudulently recognized nearly ninety percent of its reported revenues based on 
fictitious sales of its cameras.  Most of the cameras in question were neither manufactured nor 
shipped during the relevant period.   
 
              As part of its fraudulent scheme, PowerLinx utilized a sales program known as “dealer 
floor plans,” which were consignment arrangements whereby dealers agreed to display 
PowerLinx’s camera products without actually purchasing them (i.e., without accepting title and 
the risks/rewards of ownership).  PowerLinx recorded dealer floor plan order amounts as sales – 
specifically, as accounts receivable – before any cameras were manufactured, shipped to the 
dealers, or sold to customers 
                             .  However, even if PowerLinx had shipped the cameras on time, the 
company could not have recognized revenue on those shipments in accordance with Generally 
Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) because the cameras would have been shipped 
pursuant to consignment arrangements.   4
                                            
 
       PowerLinx publicly announced its fictitious “revenues” in press releases issued on an 
almost-weekly basis, often accompanying those figures with unsubstantiated and materially 
misleading revenue forecasts.  PowerLinx never revealed, in its press releases or otherwise, that its 

                                                 
3
       In late 1999, PowerLinx began developing a video surveillance product known as “SecureView,” which 
used a “camera in a light bulb” technology to transmit video signals through electrical wiring to a television monitor.  
During the relevant period, PowerLinx only produced approximately two dozen functioning SecureView cameras, 
primarily prototypes for testing purposes. 
 
4
       Under GAAP, revenue recognition is inappropriate on products delivered pursuant to a consignment 
arrangement because the consignor retains the risks and rewards of ownership of the product and title has not passed 
to the consignee.  See Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) 48, Revenue Recognition When Right 
of Return Exists; Statement of Position (“SOP”) 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, ¶ 25; Statement of Financial 
Accounting Concepts (“SFAC”) 5, Recognition and Measurement in Financial Statements of Business Enterprises, 
¶¶ 83-84; SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) 101, Revenue Recognition.  Financial statements filed as part of 
an issuer’s periodic reports under Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Exchange Act must be prepared in accordance 
with GAAP.  See Regulation S-X §§ 210.4-01, 210.1-01(a)(2). 
 
                                                  3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

fast-growing “revenues” derived from dealer floor plans or consignment arrangements.  In 
addition, PowerLinx materially overstated its year-to-date revenues for the first three quarters of 
fiscal year 2000 by $232,705 (124 percent), $1,220,972 (410 percent), and $2,315,638 (1,546 
percent), respectively.  The company also reported net income ranging from $280,000 to $420,000 
in those quarters, when it should have been reporting substantial losses. 
  
              In late February 2001, PowerLinx hired a new accounting officer who, while preparing for 
the fiscal year 2000 audit, determined that PowerLinx had materially overstated revenues and 
accounts receivable during 2000.  In April 2001, in its 2000 annual report on Form 10-K, 
PowerLinx restated its financial results for the second and third quarters and amended its 
corresponding quarterly filings. 
 
                      Respondents’ Fiscal Year 2000 Quarterly Reviews  
 
       Respondents performed reviews of PowerLinx’s quarterly financial statements during fiscal 
year 2000, but their reviews failed to comply with GAAS.  Pursuant to GAAS, reviewers of public 
company interim financial statements are required to perform inquiries and analytical procedures to 
obtain a basis for reporting whether material modifications are necessary for the financial 
information to conform with GAAP.   5
                                        
        
       As part of their first-, second-, and third-quarter 2000 reviews, Respondents failed to 
exercise heightened skepticism and perform sufficient inquiries and procedures to understand the 
basis for PowerLinx’s accounts receivable and revenue balances.  Respondents should have made 
appropriate inquiries to obtain an understanding of how PowerLinx’s accounting practices, 
business activities, and internal controls may have changed since Respondents’ most recent audit in 
March 2000, and to understand the impact of those changes on PowerLinx’s reporting.  Such 
inquiries were particularly necessary in light of the sudden and material increases in PowerLinx’s 
accounts receivable since Respondents’ most recent audit.6
                                                            When Respondents had completed 
their audit of PowerLinx’s 1999 annual financial statements, PowerLinx had not been extending 
credit or financing to customers and did not report any trade-based accounts receivable.  
PowerLinx’s 1999 annual report explicitly stated that the company “required all sales [to] be 
conducted on a cash basis.”7
                              However, PowerLinx’s balance sheet for the quarter ended March 
31, 2000 showed that the company’s accounts receivable had increased from zero to approximately 
$232,705, which represented fifty-five percent of PowerLinx’s total reported revenue of $421,068.  
PowerLinx’s second- and third-quarter accounts receivables also showed similar dramatic 
increases.  Despite these trends, Respondents failed to ensure that PowerLinx understood and was 
properly applying the accounting principles for extensions of credit.  Moreover, although 
Respondents knew that PowerLinx was selling cameras to dealers, they did not ask PowerLinx 
about the terms of those dealer arrangements.   
                                                 
5
       See Codification of Statements on Auditing Standards (“AU”) § 722.09 (current version at AU § 722.07).   
 
6
       See AU § 722.13(a), (f) (current version at AU § 722.11). 
 
7
       SeaView Underwater Research, Inc., 1999 Annual Report on Form 10-K, at 7 (filed March 30, 2000).  
 
                                                4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

        
       Respondents also failed to perform sufficient analytical procedures during their quarterly 
reviews to check PowerLinx’s purported accounts receivable and revenue balances against certain 
other elements of PowerLinx’s financial statements.8
                                                     Respondents relied on information contained 
in PowerLinx’s draft Forms 10-Q, but should have performed additi onal analytical procedures to 
determine whether PowerLinx’s cash flow, inventory, and accounts payable balances correlated 
with the company’s purported sales.   
        
       Finally, as part of their reviews, Respondents also requested that PowerLinx provide a 
listing of current accounts receivable balances, but PowerLinx failed to provide such information.  
Respondents should have questioned PowerLinx’s failure to respond, particularly in light of the 
rapid growth of the company’s accounts receivable during 2000.         
 
                             Respondents’ Fiscal Year 2000 Audit 
  
       Respondents issued an audit report containing an unqualified opinion on PowerLinx’s 
fiscal 2000 financial statements, which included PowerLinx’s restatement of accounts receivable 
and revenue.  As described below, Respondents’ audit failed to comply with GAAS in several 
material respects and contributed to PowerLinx’s issuance of an inaccurate annual report on Form 
10-K. 
        
       Accounts Receivable and Revenue
 
       In April 2001, PowerLinx restated its financial results for the second and third quarters as 
part of its Form 10-K for fiscal year 2000.  However, even after the restatement, PowerLinx’s 
year-end 2000 accounts receivable balances and revenue amounts continued to be materially 
overstated due to revenues that were improperly recognized from consignment transactions.  In 
addition, as for the second- and third-quarter accounts receivable and revenues that it did restate, 
PowerLinx failed to disclose that these restated amounts were the result of PowerLinx’s practice 
of improperly recording consignment orders as revenue.   
 
       Respondents’ audit procedures were insufficient to ensure that PowerLinx’s year-end 2000 
accounts receivable and revenue balances were fairly presented in accordance with GAAP.  9
                                                                                            
Respondents sent accounts receivable confirmation letters to seven of PowerLinx’s purported 
dealers, but received no responses from those dealers and failed to perform adequate alternate 
procedures as required by GAAS.     
 

                                                 
8
       See AU § 722.13(b) (current version at AU § 722.16). 
 
9
       See AU § 330.31-.32. 
 
                                                5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       Issuance of Convertible Debentures
 
       During the first quarter of 2000, PowerLinx issued convertible debentures, raising cash 
proceeds of over $2.5 million.  The debentures entitled the holder to an eight percent return and, at 
the holder’s option, were convertible at any time into restricted common stock at prices ranging 
from $.50 to $8.00 per share.  At that time, those conversion prices represented a substantial 
discount (at least eighty percent, on average) to the prevailing price of PowerLinx’s stock traded on 
the OTC Bulletin Board. 
 
       Under GAAP, when a company issues convertible debentures that can be converted to the 
issuer’s securities at a deep discount to the current market price, the issuer must account for the 
discount as an expense. 10
                            PowerLinx failed to account for the discount as an expense – a material 
error in the company’s income statement.  In addition, PowerLinx failed to keep adequate records 
documenting the precise discount it had given to each debenture holder. 
 
       Respondents’ audit of the convertible debentures departed from GAAS.  Respondents did 
not obtain sufficient competent evidential matter concerning the terms of the debentures, and, as a 
consequence, they were unable to apply audit procedures to determine reasonably the amounts of 
the discounts provided to PowerLinx’s debenture holders.    11
                                                                Respondents improperly relied on 
management’s representations about the discounts as a basis for issuing an unqualified audit report.   
 
       Recording of a Deferred Tax Asset
 
       Under GAAP, a company may record a deferred tax asset based on its reasonable 
expectation that current net tax operating losses will, in future years, offset expected future profits, 
thereby reducing the company’s future income tax liability.   12
                                                                 GAAP requires that the deferred tax 
asset be reduced by a “valuation allowance” to account for any likelihood that the company will 
fail to be profitable as expected. 
        

                                                 
10
       See Emerging Issues Task Force Consensus (“EITF”) 98-5, Accounting for Convertible Securities with 
Beneficial Conversion Features or Contingently Adjustable Conversion Ratios. 
 
11
       GAAS requires that an auditor obtain sufficient competent evidential matter through inspection, 
observation, inquiries, and confirmations to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion on the subject financial 
statements.  See AU § 326.01.   
 
12
       See SFAS 109, Accounting for Income Taxes.  The specific value of a deferred tax asset is determined by 
multiplying a company’s annual net loss by its estimated tax rate.  For example, if a company has a $1 million net 
loss in year one, and anticipates future net profits of $1 million in year two, then, at a marginal tax rate of thirty-six 
percent, the value of its deferred tax asset would be $360,000.  Thus, the current loss would save the company from 
paying $360,000 in future income taxes on the $1 million in expected profits. 
 
                                                   6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

       PowerLinx improperly recorded on its fiscal year 2000 balance sheet a deferred tax asset of 
$1,439,322 with no valuation allowance.  This amount was material, representing approximately 
thirty-eight percent of PowerLinx’s $3,841,944 in total assets.13
 
       PowerLinx lacked a legitimate basis for recording the deferred tax assets.  The company 
had accumulated significant losses in 2000 and had no historical operating basis from which to 
conclude that it would be profitable in future years.  Underwater camera sales had declined 
significantly, and the company had devoted most of its resources to developing its SecureView 
product.  The sole basis for PowerLinx’s “expectation” of future profitability was a purported $9 
million backlog of dealer orders for its new security video product, which the company’s new 
management team assumed would generate taxable income.  However, that purported backlog was 
unsupported and, as management later determined, unlikely to be realized.  The purported backlog 
consisted primarily of orders with consignment terms, not orders to purchase cameras, and thus 
was not reflective of actual demand for PowerLinx’s products. 
 
       Respondents approved of PowerLinx’s recording of the deferred tax asset based on oral 
representations from management that PowerLinx expected to be profitable and would soon realize 
taxable income from the $9 million backlog.  However, Respondents should have reviewed 
supporting documentation and tested whether PowerLinx had a reasonable expectation of 
profitability prior to issuing their audit report.  Respondents also should have verified the existence 
of the $9 million backlog or the terms of the orders that purportedly comprised the backlog. 
 
       In late 2001, PowerLinx’s new management determined that the orders comprising the 
purported $9 million backlog were unlikely to be realized.  In April 2002, after hiring a new audit 
firm, PowerLinx restated its 2000 financial results, reducing the value of the deferred tax asset on 
its balance sheet from $1,439,322 to zero. 
 
       Accounting for an Investment
 
       On July 12, 2000, PowerLinx exchanged 150,000 restricted common shares for a twenty 
percent voting interest in Golden Springs, LLC (“Golden Springs”), owner and operator of a spa 
and mineral spring located in Florida.14
                                          PowerLinx materially overstated the value of this 
partnership interest in its third-quarter and year-end financial statements for fiscal year 2000. 
 

                                                 
13
       PowerLinx also recorded deferred tax assets of $180,613, $72,907, and $44,921, respectively, in its 
financial statements for the first three quarters of 2000. 
 
14
              This transaction was facilitated by PowerLinx’s issuance of 150,000 shares to Golden Springs with the 
agreement that PowerLinx’s former chief executive officer and president, Richard L. McBride (“McBride”), would 
promptly replace the shares with his personal holdings.  Upon replacement of the shares by McBride, the common 
shares were immediately cancelled by PowerLinx.  This did not, however, affect PowerLinx’s obligation to properly 
account for the investment on its books and records.  GAAP provides that when a corporation implicitly benefits 
from transactions made on its behalf by a principal stockholder, the corporation should account for the transaction.  
See AICPA Accounting Interpretation 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees: Accounting Interpretations of 
APB Opinion No. 25; SAB 79, Accounting for Expenses or Liabilities paid by Principal Stockholder(s).  
 
                                                  7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

       Under GAAP, consideration received for the issuance of equity instruments is accounted 
for based on the fair value of the consideration received or the fair value of the equity instruments 
issued, whichever is more reliably measurable. 15
                                                  Additionally, if the fair value of restricted stock 
serves as the basis for measuring the consideration received, such a valuation should be determined 
in good faith and also reflect a discount from the market price of unrestricted securities of the same 
class.16
         GAAP also requires that the equity method of accounting be employed by an investor 
whose investment gives it the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial 
policies of an investee.17
                          Pursuant to the equity method, the carrying amount of an investment is 
periodically adjusted to recognize the investor’s share of the investee’s earnings or losses.  The 
amount of the adjustment is also recorded in the investor’s income statement.  Because PowerLinx 
held a twenty percent interest in Golden Springs’s voting stock and exercised significant influence, 
PowerLinx was required to apply the equity method after determining the initial carrying value.    
        
       PowerLinx determined that the fair value of the restricted shares issued was the more 
reliable measure in establishing the initial carrying value of the investment.  PowerLinx recorded 
the initial carrying value of the restricted shares at approximately $1 million, which was the same 
amount that Golden Springs had recorded on its balance sheet for the third quarter of fiscal year 
2000.  While this value represented a discount of approximately forty-seven percent from 
PowerLinx’s stock price of $12.88 on July 12, 2000 (the closing date of the transaction), the 
discount departed from the higher discount rate applied to contemporaneous sales of restricted 
stock by PowerLinx to other third parties.  In addition, the $12.88 per share price of PowerLinx’s 
freely-tradable stock was inherently inflated as a result of the company’s contemporaneous 
fraudulent conduct. 
 
       Respondents’ audit of the Golden Springs investment was deficient for several reasons.  
First, in valuing the 150,000 restricted shares that Golden Springs received in this transaction, 
PowerLinx was required under GAAP to apply a good faith discount to the reported price of its 
stock on the OTC Bulletin Board.  In determining the appropriate discount to apply to the 150,000 
restricted shares, PowerLinx should have looked to contemporaneous sales of restricted stock by 
the company to third parties.  There were many such sales of restricted stock during the first and 
second quarters of fiscal year 2000.  As Respondents were aware, during these periods PowerLinx 
had sold debentures that were convertible to restricted shares, and had valued the underlying 
restricted shares at an eighty percent discount, on average, to the prevailing market price.  
However, despite the availability of such contemporaneous valuations of restricted stock, 
Respondents failed to require that PowerLinx apply a similar eighty percent discount as a 
benchmark for assessing PowerLinx’s valuation of the restricted stock. 
 

                                                 
15
       See SFAS 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, ¶ 8. 
 
16
       See SEC Codification of Financial Reporting Policies 404.04, “Restricted” Securities. 
 
17
       See Accounting Principles Board Opinion 18, The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in 
Common Stock. 
 
                                                 8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

       Second, in corroborating PowerLinx’s valuation of its interest in Golden Springs, 
Respondents relied on an oral representation from PowerLinx’s management that Golden Springs’s 
real estate, based on a purported appraisal, was worth approximately $6.5 million and that, as a 
result, PowerLinx’s twenty percent interest was worth $1.3 million.  After comparing the purported 
$1.3 million “appraised” amount with the carrying amount reflected in PowerLinx’s third-quarter 
financial statements (approximately $1 million), Respondents concluded that the carrying amount 
was appropriate, if not conservative.  Respondents’ reliance on management’s oral representation, 
without reviewing the appraisal or ascertaining its basis, was a departure from GAAS.18
 
       Finally, Respondents failed to consider that PowerLinx’s valuation of Golden Springs was 
based on an inflated stock price ($12.88 per share at the closing date of the transaction) as a result 
of the company’s materially overstated revenue and receivables.  By the time of Respondents’ 
2000 year-end audit, PowerLinx’s stock price had declined to less than $2 per share on public 
reports suggesting that PowerLinx had engaged in improper revenue recognition. 
        
              In its 2001 Form 10-K, PowerLinx disclosed that the initial carrying value of its interest in 
Golden Springs had been reduced from approximately $1 million to $146,000.  After adjusting this 
revised carrying value for PowerLinx’s share of Golden Springs’s losses in fiscal year 2000 under 
the equity method of accounting, the carrying amount of the investment was restated to $8,618 as 
of December 31, 2000. 
        
                  Departures from Generally Accepted Auditing Standards 
                                                 
       Commission regulations require that audits of public company financial statements be 
conducted in accordance with GAAS.                     See Regulation S-X § 210.2-02(b).  Under GAAS, an 
auditor must be proficient in accounting (AU § 210) and exercise due professional care while 
conducting an audit and in preparing the audit report. (AU § 230.01).  Under AU § 230.04, “due 
professional care concerns what the independent auditor does and how well he does it.”  AU § 
326.01 requires an auditor to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter through inspection, 
observation, inquiries and confirmations to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion on the subject 
financial statements.  Similarly, an auditor is required to maintain an attitude of professional 
skepticism (AU § 230.07) and cannot simply rely on management representations (AU § 333.02).  
When an auditor relies on the work of a specialist, GAAS requires that the auditor evaluate the 
qualifications, independence, work, and findings of the specialist.  (AU § 336.08-.09.)  As set forth 
above, Respondents’ audit of PowerLinx’s financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 
31, 2000 failed to comply with GAAS.  Respondents also issued an audit report containing an 
unqualified opinion and a representation that the audit was conducted in accordance with GAAS, 
when such was not the case, in departure from AU § 508.07.   
        
       In addition, Respondents’ quarterly reviews of PowerLinx’s financial statements for fiscal 
year 2000 failed to comply with AU § 722.09, which requires the reviewer of public company 
interim financial statements to perform inquiries and analytical procedures (AU §§ 722.13-.19) to 
                                                 
18
       AU § 336 requires an auditor relying on a specialist to confirm that the specialist is competent and 
objective, and to gain an understanding of the basis of the appraisal. 
 
                                                9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

obtain a basis for reporting whether material modifications are necessary for the financial 
information to conform with GAAP.   
 
                                       Reporting Violations 
 
       Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and Rules 15d-1, 15d-13, and 12b-20 thereunder require 
issuers reporting pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act to file accurate periodic reports on 
Forms 10-K and 10-Q.  Such reports must be accurate and not misleading.   
        
       PowerLinx violated Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and Rules 15d-1, 15d-13, and 12b-
20 thereunder by filing false and misleading annual and quarterly reports with the Commission for 
fiscal year 2000. 
 
       As a result of the conduct described above, Respondents were a cause of PowerLinx’s 
violations of Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and Rules 15d-1, 15d-13, and 12b-20 thereunder 
by failing to conduct their quarterly reviews and year-end audit for fiscal year 2000 in accordance 
with GAAS.     
 
                                 Improper Professional Conduct 
 
       Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice allows the Commission to censure a 
person, or deny such person, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing 
before the Commission, if it finds that such person has engaged in improper professional conduct.  
See Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) (now codifi  ed in 15 U.S.C. § 78d-3(a)(2)).19
                                                                      
 
       As described above, Respondents engaged in improper professional conduct within the 
meaning of Rule 102(e)(1) by failing, in repeated instances, to comply with GAAS in performing 
their quarterly reviews and fiscal year 2000 audit of PowerLinx’s financial statements. 
 
                                                IV. 
 
       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondents were a cause of 
PowerLinx’s violations of Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and Rules 15d-1, 15d-13, and 12b-20 
promulgated thereunder. 
 
       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondents engaged in improper 
professional conduct within the meaning of Rule 102(e)(1) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
 

                                                 
19
       For accountants, the rule defines improper professional conduct to mean either: “[i]ntentional or knowing 
conduct, including reckless conduct, that results in a violation of applicable professional standards,” a “single 
instance of highly unreasonable conduct that results in a violation of applicable professional standards,” or 
“[r]epeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards, that 
indicate a lack of competence to practice before the Commission.”  See Rule 102(e)(1)(iv). 
 
                                                 10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

                                               V. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
              A.          Accounting Consultants and McAtee shall cease and desist from causing any 
violations and any future violations of Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and Rules 15d-1, 15d-13, 
and 12b-20 promulgated thereunder;  
 
              B.          Accounting Consultants and McAtee are denied the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before the Commission as accountants.   
 
              C.          After two (2) years from the date of this order, Accounting Consultants and 
McAtee may request that the Commission consider their reinstatement by submitting an 
application (attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing 
before the Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondents’ work in their practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which they work or in some other acceptable manner, as long as they practice before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
 
                      (a)     Accounting Consultants, or the public accounting firm with 
which McAtee is associated, is registered with the Public Compa  ny Accounting Oversight 
Board (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration 
continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)    McAtee, or the public accounting firm with which she is 
associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any 
criticisms of or potential defects in McAtee’s or the firm’s quality control system that 
would indicate that McAtee will not receive appropriate supervision; 
 
                      (c)     Respondents have resolved all disciplinary issues with the 
Board, and have complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the 
Board (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                      (d)    Respondents acknowledge their responsibility, as long as 
Respondents appear or practice before the Commission as independent accountants, to 

                                               11 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited 
to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and 
quality control standards.   
      
         D.          The Commission will consider an application by Respondents to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that Respondents’ state CPA licenses 
are current and they have resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the 
Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may 
include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating 
to Respondents’ character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice 
before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

                                                          12 
