---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                         
 UNITED                              STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                       the 

                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 52041 / July 15, 2005 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2278 / July 15, 2005                                              
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-11984 
                                             ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
In the Matter of                             DESIST PROCEEDINGS, MAKING 
                                             FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE-
      Comerica, Inc.,                        AND-DESIST ORDER PURSUANT TO 
                                             SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
Respondent.                                  EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
 
 
 
 
                                           I.  
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease­
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against <comp.>Comerica, Inc.</> (“Comerica” or “Respondent”).   
                                             
                                           II.  
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over Respondent and the subject matter of these  
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease­
and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to 
Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.    
                                             
 
 
                                             
                                             

 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                
                                              III. 
                                                
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
        
       A. Facts 
        
       1. Summary 
        
       This matter involves the filing of an inaccurate quarterly report with the Commission by 
Comerica.  During the quarter ended <date.>June 30, 2002</>, Comerica failed to establish an appropriate 
allowance for <item.>loan</> and <item.>lease losses</> (“ALLL”) for its subsidiary Comerica Bank-California.  This 
failure stemmed from the flawed  methodology that Comerica used for determining the ALLL.  As 
a consequence of understating the ALLL, Comerica’s net income was materially overstated for the 
quarter ended June 30, 2002 and not in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
(“GAAP”).  Accordingly, on October 2, 2002, Comerica restated the financial statements included 
in its Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2002.  The restatement reflected that Comerica’s 
second quarter income before income taxes had been overstat ed by approximately 14.8%.  
Following the announcement of the restatement and two larger unrelated charges being taken in the  
third quarter, the closing price of Comerica’s stock fell 20% from the previous day’s close.  
Accordingly, Comerica violated the reporting provisions of the Exchange Act.  Moreover, by 
failing to document the ALLL in accordance with GAAP, Comerica violated the recordkeeping 
and internal controls provisions of the Exchange Act.   
        
       2.      Respondent  
        
       Comerica is a Delaware corporation headquartered in Detroit, Michigan.  Comerica is a 
holding company for business, consumer, and investment banks with operations in the United 
States, Canada, and Mexico.  During the relevant period, Comerica had three primary U.S. 
subsidiary banks: (1) Comerica Bank-Michigan; (2) Comerica Bank-Texas; and (3) Comerica 
Bank-California.  Comerica’s common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to 
Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange under 
the stock symbol “CMA.” 
        
       3.     General Description of ALLL 
        
       Regardless of how well a bank’s lending is done, the bank will have loan and lease losses.  
To absorb these losses, banks are  required to maintain an ALLL, which is also referred to as an 
“allowance for credit losses” or “loan-loss reserve.”  The ALLL represents the bank’s assessment 
of probable credit losses inherent in its loan portfolio as of a specific balance sheet date, whether 
related to specifically identified loans or not.   
        
       The ALLL is established and adjusted by charges against the bank’s operating income.  
The ALLL is presented on the balance sheet as a contra-asset account that reduces the amount of 
the loan portfolio reported on the balance sheet.  The ALLL must be adjusted to reflect the current  

                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                                  
level of probable estimated credit losses through a provision for loan and lease losses.  This 
provision appears as an expense item on the bank’s income statement and decreases the net income 
for that period.   
        
       4. Comerica’s Methodology          for Determining its ALLL 
        
       Comerica’s ALLL was comprised of the loan loss reserves for its three U.S. subsidiary 
banks.  Each subsidiary bank’s ALLL was comprised of standard, specific, and unallocated 
reserves. 
        
       Every commercial loan made by a Comerica subsidiary bank was rated by the subsidiary’s 
credit officers on a scale from 1 to 8 based on risk characteristics.  A loan rated 1 (called a “grade 1 
loan”) had little or no risk and a loan rated 8 was a non-performing loan that was a confirmed loss 
requiring a charge off.1
                        Standard reserves for all loans were determined by grouping together loans  
with the same loan grades, then applying to each loan grade projected loss ratios set by Comerica 
based on numerous factors. 
        
       As to specific reserves, every quarter Credit Quality Review (“CQR”) meetings were 
convened at each subsidiary to review the subsidiary’s loan portfolio.  The attendees of these 
meetings were known as the “CQR committee.”  The committee would review the bank’s large 
grade 5, 6, and 7 loans for individual impairment every quarter to determine whether they required 
a specific reserve as opposed to the standard reserve allocation.  The CQR committee’s 
determination of the reserve amount for a specific loan was recorded in a one or two page 
summary called the “CQR report.”  These reports include a short synopsis of the borrower, the 
loan, the loan grade, action plans to reduce the risk of the bank, and developments at the borrower.   
However, the CQR reports often did not provide any narrative explanation for why the CQR 
committee assigned a particular loan grade or specific reserve allocation to a certain loan.  The 
CQR committee would also review the loan grades for the large grade 5, 6, and 7 loans in  
Comerica Bank-California’s loan portfolio and, as necessary, revise the grade and recommend 
charge-offs. 
 
       Unallocated reserves were intended to cover potential losses on categories of loan 
portfolios that had been identified as having specific loss characteristics that had not otherwise 
been considered.  Comerica determined its unallocated reserve by first setting a separate range of 
minimum and maximum reserve percentages for each portfolio category, based on industry, 
geographic, and economic factors.  Comerica used the same percentages for all three of its 
subsidiaries, notwithstanding the different factors that might have applied to the loan portfolios of 
Comerica Bank-Texas, Comerica Bank-Michigan, and Comerica Bank-California.    
        

                                                 
1 
       Comerica used a separate methodology for determining its reserves for retail loans.  For 
the period ended June 30, 2002, the reserves for retail loans accounted for less than 2% of 
Comerica’s entire ALLL. 
                                                3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                                                                                 
       For each subsidiary, the uniform minimum and maximum percentages for each portfolio 
category were multiplied by the aggregate loan amounts in each portfolio category.  The 
minimum and maximum figures for each portfolio  category at each subsidiary were then added 
together to create the total minimum and maximum limit for each subsidiary's unallocated reserve.  
This process created three separate minimum and maximum ranges corresponding to the three 
subsidiaries.  Comerica's chief credit officer would then select  a number within the minimum and 
maximum range for each subsidiary bank to be the preliminary unallocated reserve for that 
subsidiary.  The unallocated reserve  figures for all three subsidiary banks were then totaled to form 
Comerica's preliminary unallocated reserve.  That was the final component to determining 
Comerica's preliminary ALLL.  Later, Comerica's management    would either accept that 
preliminary figure as the final unallocated reserve  for all three subsidiary banks, or decrease or 
increase it, to determine Comerica's final ALLL. 
        
       The calculation of Comerica’s ALLL was partially documented each quarter in a binder  
titled “Credit Loss Reserve Analysis” (“Credit Loss Reserve binder”).   First, a preliminary version 
of the binder was prepared by Comerica’s credit department.  It set forth the results of the above-
described quarterly procedure through the determination of the preliminary ALLL.  Within a few 
days after the end of each quarter, a group of Comerica’s senior officers would meet to review the  
adequacy of the ALLL, as reflected in the preliminary Credit Loss Reserve binder.  At this 
meeting, Comerica’s management would, as described above, determine the final unallocated 
reserve and the final quarterly ALLL figure.  The results of the quarterly meeting were reflected in 
the final Credit Loss Reserve binder, but meeting minutes were not maintained.   
        
       5.     Problems Relating to Comerica Bank-California’s ALLL 
        
       Comerica Bank-California’s ALLL process was not properly documented and there was an 
insufficient link between the CQR process and the quarterly ALLL figure recorded in the Call 
Report.2
         Furthermore, Comerica Bank-California’s methodology was not sufficiently auditable, 
allocated losses were not representative of current conditions, the documentation of unallocated 
reserves was inadequate, and recognition of loan losses, and downgrades were delayed.  With  
respect to this last point, Comerica Bank-California’s CQR committee meetings were held during 
the second month of each financial quarter.  At those meetings, certain incremental probable credit 
losses were measured, but Comerica Bank-California did not always reflect the incremental losses 
in its Call Report for that quarter.   
        

                                                 
2 
       Federal law requires all banks to file quarterly with the appropriate federal banking 
agency a Report of Condition and Income (or “Call Report”).  See 12 U.S.C. §161 (National 
banks), 12 U.S.C. §324 (State member banks), and 12 U.S.C. §1817 (State nonmember banks).  
This report collects basic financial data from banks in the form of a balance sheet, an income  
statement, and supporting schedules.  It is a primary source of financial data used for the 
supervision and regulation of banks. 
 
                                               4
  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                                                                               
       In late 2001 and early 2002, the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco (“Federal Reserve-
San Francisco”) expressed concerns regarding Comerica Bank-California’s increased credit risk 
profile and that the methodology used by Comerica Bank-California appeared inadequate to ensure  
that the ALLL kept pace with the deterioration of the bank’s loan portfolio.  At a preliminary 
meeting held on July 31, 2002, during a regularly scheduled examination, Federal Reserve-San 
Francisco examiners told Comerica Bank-California’s management and Comerica’s chief credit 
officer that they had preliminarily identified an addition to the provision for loan losses relating to 
specifically identified loans and additional charge-offs that were required for the period ended June  
30, 2002.  The Federal Reserve-San Francisco examiners and Comerica Bank-California 
management agreed to discuss the issues further.  
        
       On or about August 5, 2002, at a meeting of Comerica’s senior management, Comerica’s  
chief credit officer reported that discussions with the Federal Reserve-San Francisco concerning 
additional provisions and charge-offs were ongoing. 
        
       6. 	   Comerica Files a Form 10-Q for the Period Ended June 30, 2002 Containing a 
              Materially Understated ALLL 
        
       On the evening of August 12, 2002, Comerica filed its second quarter Form 10-Q, which 
reported a materially understated ALLL and overstated net income figures for the period ended  
June 30, 2002.  Comerica did not disclose in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) section of the Form 10-Q any information 
concerning Comerica Bank-California’s increased risk profile. 
        
       7. 	   Restatement of the Second Quarter 2002 Comerica Bank-California Call 
              Report 
 
       After several additional communications between Comerica and the Federal Reserve-San 
Francisco examiners, the Federal Reserve-San Francisco and Comerica Bank-California met on 
September 18, 2002.  The regulators directed Comerica Bank-California to restate the June 30, 
2002 Call Report to reflect an incremental $40 million provision for credit losses, which included 
$22 million in charge-offs.  
 
       8. 	   Restatement of the Financial Statements Contained in Comerica’s June 30, 
              2002 Form 10-Q 
 
       Comerica restated the Call Report as directed.  As a result of restating the Call Report, on 
October 2, 2002, Comerica filed an amended quarterly report on Form 10-Q/A for the period ended 
June 30, 2002.  Comerica restated its second quarter income before income taxes from $272 million 
to $237 million, reflecting an overstatement of about 14.8%, and its second quarter diluted net 
income per share from $1.03 to $0.90, reflecting an overstatement of about 14.4%.  The 
overstatements in income before income taxes and diluted net income per share were caused  
primarily by Comerica’s failure to make the incremental credit loss provision of $40 million. 
  

                                              5
  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                                                                                                 
       The day before the amended filing, on October 1, 2002, Comerica’s stock price had closed 
at $50.19 per share.  After the press release on the morning of October 2, 2002 announcing the  
restatement and two larger unrelated charges taken in the third quarter, Comerica’s stock traded as 
low as $39.11 per share and closed the day at $40.00 per share, a decrease of about 20% from the 
previous day’s closing price.  Trading volume increased from 903,300 shares on October 1 to 
10,855,200 on October 2 and market  capitalization decreased from $8,767,685,629 on October 1 to  
$6,987,595,640 on October 2. 
 
       B.     Legal Analysis 
 
       1.     Violations of the Reporting Provisions of the Exchange Act 
 
       Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-13 thereunder require issuers with 
securities registered under Section 12 of the Securities Act of 1933 to file quarterly reports with 
the Commission.  The obligation to file such reports embodies the requirement  
that they be true and correct.  See SEC v. Savoy Indus., Inc., 587 F.2d 1149, 1165 (D.C. Cir. 
1978), cert. denied sub nom. Zimmerman v. SEC, 440 U.S. 913 (1979).  Article 4 of Regulation 
S-X requires that financial statements filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act be prepared in accordance with GAAP or such statements will be presumed to be 
misleading or inaccurate.  17 CFR § 210.4-01(a)(1).  Furthermore, Articles 9 and 10 of 
Regulation S-X require creditors to disclose their ALLL in the interim financial statements 
included in their quarterly reports.  17 CFR §§ 210.9-03(7) & 210.10-01(a).  Therefore, banks 
filing quarterly reports with the Commission must disclose their ALLL in the interim financial 
statements and the ALLL must be calculated in accordance with GAAP.    
        
       Guidance under GAAP for recognition of loan losses is provided by Statement of 
Financial Accounting Standards No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies (FAS 5), and Statement of 
Accounting Standards No. 114, Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan (FAS 114).  
See SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin 102 (“SAB 102”).  FAS 5 provides that an estimated loss 
from the collectibility of a loan should be accrued when, based on information available prior to 
the issuance of the financial statements, it is probable the loan has been impaired at the date of 
the financial statements and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.  FAS 114 
provides specific guidance on the measurement of loan impairment and related disclosures, but 
does not change the fundamental recognition criteria for loan losses provided by FAS 5.   
 
       On July 6, 2001, the Commission staff issued interpretive guidance on FAS 5 and 114 in 
the form of SAB 102.  In SAB 102, the staff expressed the view that it normally would expect a 
registrant that engages in lending activities to develop a systematic methodology to determine its 
ALLL in accordance with GAAP as of each financial reporting date.  Comerica failed to develop 
a systematic methodology for determining the ALLL in accordance with GAAP.  Under GAAP, 
if an issuer can measure a reasonably estimable and incremental probable credit loss in a 
particular financial quarter, the issuer must recognize the loss in that same quarter.  See FAS 5, ¶ 
8.  Although Comerica’s loan review process measured incremental probable credit losses in the 
second month of a financial quarter, Comerica sometimes did not recognize those incremental 

                                               6
  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                                                                                                  
probable credit losses until the following quarter.  This practice contradicts FAS 5, FAS 114, and 
Commission staff guidance.  The failure to recognize incremental probable credit losses inherent 
in Comerica Bank-California’s loan portfolio in a timely manner resulted in Comerica’s filing of 
financial statements with the Commission that contained material departures from GAAP.  By 
understating its ALLL in the Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2002, Comerica 
materially overstated its income before income taxes by $35 million and diluted net income per 
share by $0.13.  In percentage terms, Comerica overstated its income before income taxes and 
diluted net income per share by 14.8% and 14.4%, respectively.   
 
       In addition to the above reporting requirements, Item 303 of Regulation S-K requires a  
registrant to describe in the MD&A section of the Form 10-Q any known uncertainties that it 
reasonably expects will have a materially unfavorable impact on revenues or income from 
continuing operations.  Comerica failed to comply with the disclosure requirements contained in  
Item 303 by failing to disclose in the MD&A section of its Form 10-Q for the period ended June 
30, 2002 the known uncertainty associated with Comerica Bank-California’s increased risk profile  
(specifically, the deteriorating trend of the subsidiary bank’s loan portfolio), which should have 
been expected by Comerica to have a materially unfavorable impact on income.   3 
                                                                                 
        
       Furthermore, Exchange Act Rule 12b-20 provides: “In addition to the information 
expressly required to be included in a statement or report, there shall be added such further 
material information, if any, as may be necessary  to make the required statements, in light of the 
circumstances under which they are made not misleading.”  Comerica failed to comply with this 
rule by failing to add material information necessary to make the financial statements included in  
its Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2002 not misleading. 
        
       Accordingly, Comerica violated Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act    
Rules 12b-20 and 13a-13.   
        
       2.     Violations of the Recordkeeping Provisions of the Exchange Act 
        
       Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to make and keep books, records, 
and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 

                                                 
3 
       This Order does not address whether Comerica, as a bank holding company supervised 
and regulated by the Federal Reserve Board, was required by Item 303 to disclose “confidential 
supervisory information” as defined in 12 CFR § 261.2(c).  The Commission understands that 
the Board considers documentation obtained from financial institutions during the course of  
examinations or inspections, as well as examiner workpapers, memoranda, and reports of 
examination or inspection, to be confidential supervisory information, and that it is the Board's 
practice to protect confidential supervisory information from disclosure to third parties to the 
greatest extent possible consistent with applicable law and the public interest.  See, e.g., SR 97­
17 (SUP) (June 6, 1997) (Access to Books and Records of Financial Institutions During 
Examinations and Inspections).   
 
                                                7
  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

                                                                                                 
dispositions of the assets of the issuer.  Comerica’s filing of an inaccurate Form 10-Q on August 
12, 2002 evidenced a failure to maintain books and records that accurately and fairly reflected the 
ALLL, income before income taxes, and diluted net income per sh are figures for the period ended 
June 30, 2002.  Accordingly, Comerica violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act. 
 
       3.     Violations of the Internal Controls Provisions of the Exchange Act 
 
       Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to devise and maintain a system  
of internal controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that, among other things, 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity  
with GAAP and to maintain the accountability of assets.  Pursuant to SAB 102, a registrant is 
expected to maintain documentation of the rationale supporting each period’s determination that 
the reported ALLL figures were adequate.  A financial institution is expected to maintain 
documentation supporting its ALLL policies and procedures, the loan grading system or process,  
the summary or consolidation of the ALLL balance, the validation of the ALLL methodology, and 
the periodic adjustments to the ALLL process.  See SAB 102. 
        
       Comerica failed to adequately document the underlying rationale for making adjustments to 
the ALLL.  Moreover, Comerica did not maintain documentation that linked the components of the 
loan review process to the final ALLL reported in the financial statements.  As a consequence of 
these practices, Comerica recorded its June 30, 2002 ALLL, income before income taxes, and 
diluted net income per share in a manner that was not in conformity with GAAP.  Based on the 
foregoing conduct, Comerica violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act.  
 
                                              IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Comerica’s Offer. 
 
  
 
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        

                                               8
  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

                                                                                                                                                                                                 
              Accordingly, it is hereby  ORDERED that: 
 
 Respondent Comerica cease                                            and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 
12b-20 and 13a-13 thereunder.   
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       Jonathan                                                                                                            G.   Katz
       Secretary                                                                                                          
 

                                                                                               9
  
