---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  

                                        Before the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 57560 / March 26, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 2804 / March 26, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-9516 

                          :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                          :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE
In the Matter of 
                          :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                          :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Lynn R. Michl, CPA 
                          :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                          :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 

       On December 23, 1997, Lynn R. Michl, CPA (“Michl”) was denied the privilege of 
appearing or practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of 
the Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                    Michl consented to the entry of the order without 
admitting or denying the findings therein.  This order is issued in response to Michl’s application 
for reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant responsible for 
the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed with the Commission. 

       During <date.>1992</>, <date.>1993</> and <date.>the first half of 1994</>, the Commission found that, while Michl 
was serving as CFO, <comp.>Terrano Corporation</> (“Terrano”) improperly recorded <item.>sales of certain 
software enhancement modules</> that were not yet available for use.  In the course of the audits of 
Terrano’s financial statements for fiscal 1992 and 1993, Michl provided Terrano’s independent 
auditor with management representation documents which falsely stated that the software 
enhancement modules were available for delivery.  In addition, during the same time period, 
Terrano improperly recorded, as <item.>software revenue</> and <item.>accounts</> receivable, sales of software that 
was available for delivery, but which had not been delivered at the time the revenue and accounts 
receivable were recorded.  Michl either knew or should have known that revenue and accounts 
receivable on these sales had been improperly recorded.  Based on the foregoing, Michl engaged 
in improper professional conduct and willfully violated the provisions of the Federal securities 

1 
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 999 dated December 23, 1997.  Michl was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after five years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

laws and the rules thereunder within the meaning of Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice. 

       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Michl 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Michl is not, at this time, seeking to appear or 
practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume 
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be 
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original order in this regard.  Therefore, the denial of Michl’s 
privilege of appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant 
continues in effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in 
this regard in accordance with the terms of the original order. 

       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 

       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Michl, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the December 23, 1997 order denying 
him the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 
and that Michl, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in his 
practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 

2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 

“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 

                                                 2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Lynn R. Michl, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 

       By the Commission. 

                                           Nancy M. Morris 
                                           Secretary 

                                              3

