---------------------Page 1---------------------

Counsel of Record: 
Mark  K. Schonfeld (MS-2798) 
Attorney for Plaintiff 
SECURITIES   AND   EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
New York Regional Office                                          I/ *a 
                                                                              (7 ".- 
3 World Financial Center, Room 4300 
New York,  NY 1028 1 
(2 12) 336-0068 (William Finkel) 
(212) 336-1320 (fax) 

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT 
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK 

                                                    - - u.sm37fi.x.y. 
                                                           CASHIERS 
SECURITIES   AND  EXCHANGE COMMISSION, 

                                 Plaintiff,                 08CV      (  ) 

SALVATORE LAGRECA and       BRIAN   WATSON, 

                                                            COMPLAINT 

                                 Defendants. 

      Plaintiff, Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"), alleges the 

following against defendants Salvatore LaGreca ("LaGreca") and Brian Watson ("Watson") 

(collectively, the "Defendants"): 

                                     SUMMARY 

       1.    This case arises out of Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc.'s ("IPG) failure to 

reconcile its intercompany accounts and expense its intercompany charges.  In the Fall of 2002, 

IPG restated its financial results in an amount of $181 million for the period <date.>1997</> to <date.>2002</>.  The 

largest component of this restatement (approximately $1 01 million) was attributable largely to 

the fact that <comp.>McCann Erickson Worldwide, Inc.</> ("McCann"), IPG's largest subsidiary, recorded 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 as receivables intercompany charges that should have been expensed. 

        2.     McCann officers and employees, including LaGreca, McCann's Vice-Chairman, 

Finance and Operations and Chief Financial Officer ("CFO"), and Watson, the Chief Operating 

Officer of the Europe-Middle East-Ahca  region ("EMEA"), failed to ensure McCann reconciled 

its intercompany <item.>accounts</> for at least six years.  At times, LaGreca and Watson purposely 

delayed reconciling intercompany accounts because they knew a reconciliation would result in 

write-offs that would interfere with McCann's efforts to hit internal annual profit targets. 

Because McCann never fully reconciled its intercompany accounts and failed to expense 

properly intercompany <item.>charges</>, McCann's financial results were inaccurate.  While LaGreca and 

Watson did not know the extent of the intercompany exposures that existed, or that the resulting 

write-offs would be material to IPGYs financial statements, they ignored the red flags that IPG's 

financial results were misstated. By 2002, McCann7s intercompany accounts were misstated by 

approximately $101 million. As LaGreca and Watson knew, IPG then incorporated McCann's 

financial results in IPG's consolidated financial statements. 

       3.     Through this conduct, LaGreca and Watson aided and abetted McCann's 

violations of Sections 10(b), 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) and (B) of the Securities Exchange Act of 

1934 ("Exchange Act") [15 U.S.C. §§78j(b), 78m(a) and 78m(b)(2)(A) and (B)] and Rules lob- 

5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 [17 C.F.R. §§240.10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a- 

131. 

                              JURISDICTION AND VENUE 

       4.     The Commission brings this action pursuant to authority conferred by Section 

21 (d)(l)  of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 8 78u(d)(l).  The Commission is seeking permanent 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

injunctive relief, disgorgement and prejudgment interest thereon from LaGreca and Watson.  The 

Commission also seeks civil penalties pursuant to Section 21(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, 15 

U.S.C.  5 78u(d)(3), against LaGreca and Watson.  Finally, the Commission seeks all other just 

and appropriate relief. 

       5.      This Court has subject matter jurisdiction over this action pursuant to Section 27 

of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 5 78aa. 

       6.      Venue lies in this court pursuant to Section 27 of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 5 

78aa.  Certain of the transactions, acts, practices and courses of business occurred within the 

Southern District of New York. For example, PG7s and McCannYs headquarters are located in 

New York, New York. 

       7.     LaGreca and Watson, directly and indirectly, singly and in concert, made use of 

the means or instruments of transportation or communication in, and the means or 

instrumentalities of, interstate commerce, or of the mails, in connection with the transactions, 

acts, practices, and courses of business alleged herein. 

                                    THE DEFENDANTS 

       8.     Salvatore  LaGreca,  55, a resident of Port Washington, New York, served as 

McCannYs Vice-Chairman, Finance and Operations and CFO from January 1996 to October 

2002.  LaGreca is a CPA licensed in the State of New York.  LaGreca, among other things, 

oversaw McCannYs accounting, financial reporting, strategic planning, mergers and acquisitions, 

and budgeting. 

       9.     Brian Watson,  age 60, a resident of the United Kingdom, joined EMEA as 

Director of Operations in 1996, from 2000 served as Chief Operating Officer and in 

                                              3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

approximately May 2002 became Deputy Regional Director of EMEA.  Watson has no formal 

training in accounting and has never been a certified public accountant. Although Watson was 

not an accountant, from approximately the middle of 1998 until January 2000, and from early 

2001 to May 2002, when EMEA did not have a Finance Director, Watson handled many aspects 

of the Finance Director's responsibilities. 

                             OTHER RELEVANT PARTIES 

       10.    IPG  is an advertising and media holding company that owns over 600 advertising 

agencies and other companies in approximately 130 countries. IPG is headquartered in New 

York, New York, and its stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. 

       11.    McCann   is a Delaware corporation that IPG wholly owns.  McCann maintains its 

headquarters in New York. McCann's revenues during the relevant period constituted 

approximately one-third to over one-half of IPG's revenues. McCann is organized into regional 

subsidiaries: North America, EMEA, Asia Pacific and Latin America. In terms of number of 

operating agencies, EMEA was McCann's largest region with 193 operating agencies in 40 

countries. McCann grew dramatically between 1996 and 2001, including acquiring over 100 

companies. During this period, McCann's revenues increased from approximately $1.1 billion to 

$2.1 billion.  McCann Advertising, Ltd. ("MEA"), McCann's advertising agency in London, was 

one of EMEA's largest agencies. 

       12.    PriceWaterhouseCoopers,   LLP  ("PwC US") served as the global auditing firm 

to IPG throughout the relevant period. PricewaterhouseCoopers7 UK affiliate ("PwC UK") 

served as the external auditor for EMEA's headquarters and MEA.               - 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                           FACTS 

                                         Background 

IPG's  Corporate Culture 

        13.    IPG and McCann had a deep-rooted culture that emphasized profits as the 

company's prime objective. 

       14.    MEAYs Finance Director from 1997 through early 2000 described the drive to 

deliver profits as very aggressive. 

       15.       Every year from 1997 through 2001, PWC UK  listed "pressure from parent 

company to produce results in line with budget" as a risk factor at MEA, McCannYs advertising 

agency in London, in PWCYs internal audit strategy memorandum. 

       16.       Every fall, McCann conducted "Forward Planning Meetings." At these meetings, 

McCann management met with regional management and local heads of agencies and proposed 

budgets and profit targets for the following year.  McCann management then either accepted or 

rejected the budget. If rejected, the agencies had to return with a higher number to attain.  After 

McCann management accepted the budget for all of its agencies, McCann management then 

submitted the budget on a consolidated basis to IPG management, who then either accepted or 

rejected it. 

       17.    This planning process was updated twice throughout the year -- in the Spring and 

Summer  -- based on actual profits achieved by the agencies and any other developments. During 

the updating process, new profit targets were set, often above the original target set in the 

Forward Planning Meeting.  These targets were called "stretch targets." 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

        18.    IPG too insisted on aggressive profit targets. Failure to meet profit targets would 

result in lower bonuses for officers and employees, and potentially termination. 

        19.    IPGYs and McCannYs focus on profits, and lack of attention to balance sheet 

issues, as well as IPG7s and McCann7s inadequate internal controls and books and records, 

contributed to IPG7s and McCann7s intercompany problems. 

Intercompany Transactions 

       20.     McCann utilized intercompany accounts to record and account for activity 

conducted between its hundreds of agencies. 

       2 1.    When handled properly, intercompany transactions would be booked through a 

corresponding entry by each side of a given transaction, and would have no impact on McCann7s 

consolidated assets, liabilities, expenses or revenues. 

       22.     Imbalances occurred, however, for a variety of reasons, including instances where 

there was a delay in processing of the invoice, or the McCann agency being charged (or its 

client) disputed the amount of the charge. 

       23.     In some cases, rather than record an expense, local agencies placed offsetting 

debits designated as "in dispute" or "in transit" in various suspense accounts on the balance 

sheets, including an account called "AR-Other" (typically, these accounts were non- 

intercompany accounts).  If the relevant McCann agencies could not then resolve the discrepancy 

or disputes in intercompany accounts, McCann should have written the amounts off in a 

reasonable period of time. 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

        24.    IPGYs Standard Policies & Procedures ("SP&Pm) included a provision for 

 intercompany transactions that applied to all operating agencies, including McCann agencies. 

The policy required that an intercompany invoice be issued for all amounts exceeding $250 and 

be recorded by the receiving agency in the month received whether or not the invoice was 

disputed. According to the SP&P, the Controller's office was responsible for resolving disputes 

that the financial or operational staff of the relevant agencies could not. 

       25.     IPG also required agencies to complete Schedules A and B to confirm 

intercompany balances.  Schedule A listed an agency's intercompany receivables and Schedule 

B its payables. 

      LaGreca and Watson Failed to Ensure Intercompany Accounts Were Reconciled 

       26.    From at least 1997 through August 2002, McCann7s financial management, 

including LaGreca, knew that IPG7s intercompany policies were not being followed. 

       27.    During this period, McCann management, including, LaGreca and Watson, hew 

that intercompany disputes were not being resolved, and intercompany accounts were not being 

hlly  reconciled. Moreover, over time, LaGreca and Watson learned that certain intercompany 

receivables would need to be written off, although they did not know the full extent of the write- 

offs.  Despite this awareness, year after year, LaGreca and Watson failed to address and resolve 

these intercompany problems, and ignored the red flags that IPGYs financial results would be 

misstated. 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

       28.     During the relevant period, LaGreca and Watson also failed to devise a system of 

adequate internal controls to ensure that intercompany accounts were reconciled on a timely 

basis and expensed properly. 

       29.        Similarly, LaGreca and Watson also failed to ensure that McCann kept books and 

records that accurately and fairly reflected intercompany charges and transactions. 

                   McCann's Early Awareness of Intercompany Problems 

       30.    As early as 1997, McCann's financial management knew of intercompany 

problems, which were the most severe within EMEA, and in particular at MEA.  For example, 

MEA served as a European and global coordinator of "club dues" and other expenses.  "Club 

dues" are one type of intercompany transaction.  It represented costs that were incurred by one 

agency when coordinating services for a global client. The agency that incurred such costs 

subsequently re-charged a portion to the agencies whose business was enhanced. 

       3 1.   In 1997, MEA's Finance Director met with LaGreca and McCann's controller and 

expressed concesfis regarding the lack of a system to handle intercompany disputes. 

Additionally, MEA's Finance Director pointed out that intercompany policies were not being 

followed. LaGreca responded that he was aware of these problems and it was on his agenda to 

be resolved. 

       32.    By 1998, McCann's financial management was aware of intercompany 

imbalances and that disputes in intercompany accounts would result in write-offs. 

       33.    On or about June 3, 1998, EMEAYs outgoing Finance Director sent an email to 

McCann's deputy controller that stated:  "[I] see as a critical weakness in they (sic) way that our 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

 people handle intercompany transactions. They do not resolve disputes, they are left to stagnate, 

 and the (sic) we have writeoffs." 

     .  34.    Additionally, on or about July 30, 1998, a senior financial staffer at EMEA sent 

an email to European finance directors, copied to Watson, among others, stating in part that "I 

believe that we are all in agreement that the level of intercompany invoices now held in dispute 

has reached an unacceptable level." 

        35.    The EMEA financial staffer's July 30 email contained a plan to address the 

intercompany problem, and set a September 18, 1998 deadline for reconciling intercompany 

accounts. The email then stated, however, that "it is agreed that any write-offs of a material 

value not be expensed until January 1999." 

       36.     In a follow-up email to McCann's controller and deputy controller dated August 

6, 1998, the EMEA financial staffer noted "I hope the information you are receiving on 

differences on intercompany balances will enable you to resolve the outstanding issues.  Hey, 

what's a $28M discrepancy amongst   friends." 

       37.     On or about September 28, 1998, McCann's deputy controller sent a 

memorandum to all McCann finance directors,   copied to LaGreca, stating that "[olver the last 

year intercompany differences have become increasingly material, individually and in the 

aggregate. In June, as a group, McCann was out an astonishing $40 million.  To put this in 

perspective, IPG as a whole has never had an out of balance that large." 

       38.     The deputy controller's September 28, 1998 memorandum stated that all disputed 

items were to be resolved by October 3 1, 1998. 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

        39.        Despite the controller's office directive to resolve intercompany disputes, this 

 never occurred.  Additionally, whle  the controller's office performed quarterly reconciliations of 

the consolidated intercompany imbalances, and to some extent reconciled the imbalances, their 

efforts were wholly inadequate.  The controller's office failed to obtain information from 

McCann agencies that showed the actual extent of the intercompany imbalances (e.g., Schedules 

A and  B). The controller's office also failed to review the growing balance in the AR-Other and 

additional intercompany accounts in which agencies recorded numerous charges. 

                   McCann Failed to Resolve the Intercompany Problem      In 1998 

       40.     McCann did not address its intercompany problems in 1998 at least in part so that 

McCann could hit its annual profit targets. 

       41.     EMEAYs agencies never completed the intercompany exercise described above 

because various offices asked for additional time to compile the necessary information, and then 

agencies had to begin preparing for the annual McCann Forward Planning Meeting.  McCannYs 

financial management, iiicluding EMEAYs financial mxlagement, never ensured that  the 

agencies circled back to complete the intercompany project. 

       42.    PwC also raised the intercompany issue with McCannYs financial management. 

During the 1997 and 1998 audit years, PwC UK,  MEA7s external auditors, listed intercompany 

as a significant internal accounting control weakness. PwC UK qualified its opinion with respect 

to intercompany balances in its Audit Summary Memorandum concerning MEA. 

       43.    Additionally, in or around November 1998, PwC US7 global audit partner 

informed IPGYs Audit Committee that "[i]ntercompany accounts should be reconciled and 

confirmed on a timely basis." 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

       McCann Failed to Resolve the Intercompany Problems in 1999 

       44.    Throughout 1999, intercompany problems at McCann continued to persist. 

       45.    In approximately September 1999, Watson assigned a member of EMEA's 

financial staff to investigate the reasons intercompany accounts were not being settled and to 

resolve the underlying problems. 

       46.    Despite initiating this project, EMEA's financial staff failed to resolve the 

intercompany problems. 

       47.    At this time, EMEA was under pressure to hit increased profit targets. In 1999, 

McCann senior management increased EMEA's profit target by 20% from its profit target in 

1998. 

       48.    As a result, in or around August 1999, Watson sent an e-mail to EMEA's 

agencies' finance directors instructing them to develop a specific plan to reach their targets 

because EMEA had: "a serious problem ahead of us with reference to achieving our regional 

profit target for ths  year." (Emphasis in orizinal). 

       49.     Watson and others understood that reconciling intercompany accounts would 

result in write-offs.  Based on a preliminary analysis, EMEA's financial staff concluded that 

there were numerous disputes about intercompany invoices that had to be resolved and that 

resolving theses disputes would create losses that would affect EMEA's profit and loss ("P&L"). 

       50.    Watson, therefore, did not schedule the intercompany reconciliation during 1999 

so that EMEA would not miss hitting its profit targets.  On or about November 12, 1999, Watson 

sent an e-mail to the EMEA staff that stated: "I have chosen January as the date for the 

[intercompany] meeting as there are likely to be write-offs which I suspect we would want to 

                                             11 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

make next year rather than this." 

       5 1.   In November 1999, McCannYs financial staff was scheduled to attend a Forward 

Planning Meeting. 

       52.    Prior to this planning meeting, MEA7s Finance Director discussed the 

intercompany imbalances with LaGreca and Watson and told them there were significant 

amounts of unpaid intercompany receivables that were causing MEA7s cash position to 

deteriorate.  LaGreca and Watson insisted that the intercompany problem would be sorted out, 

and that Watson would soon adjudicate disputed invoices. 

       53.    Throughout 1999, PwC flagged intercompany as an area of risk.  PwC  UK 

qualified its opinion on intercompany accounts at MEA in its 1999 MEA Audit Summary 

Memorandum. PwC     UK   noted that MEA continued to have difficulties in reconciling 

intercompany balances due to the volume of affiliates and the age of a number of disputed items. 

       54.    PwC US also alerted IPG management and its Audit Committee regarding 

problems with intercompany recoilciliations. In its Internal Accaunting Controls and Accounti~~g 

Procedures for the year ended December 3 1, 1999, PwC US characterized intercompany as a 

priority one risk and stated: 

       PG'  s intercompany out-of-balance has increased dramatically since year-end and 
       analysis and reconciliations are not performed at each period and to ensure that 
       intercompany accounts are properly stated. We noted that intercompany invoices 
       are not consistently recorded properly and in accordance with IPG policy at the 
       agency level.  All agencies must record all invoices when received, regardless of 
       disputed items.  However, disputed invoices are often not recorded by agencies 
       and invoices often remain outstanding. We noticed several intercompany 
       invoices dating back as far as 1989. In addition, some agencies record the 
       invoices within trade payable and receivable accounts other than intercompany 
       accounts. 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

        55.    PwC  US  characterized the risk arising from intercompany accounts as "failure to 

reconcile these amounts could result in misstated account. Lack of consistency in recording 

intercompany invoices can lead to an intercompany out-of-balance situation and ultimately result 

in misstatements to the consolidated financial statements." 

            LaGreca and Watson Continued to Fail to Resolve McCann's Intercompany 
                                    Problems in 2000- Early 2001 

        56.        McCann's financial management, including LaGreca, continued to fail to address 

its intercompany problems in 2000, despite receiving further warnings that intercompany 

problems remained. 

       57.     MEA's Finance Director resigned his position in early 2000, and described his 

"fi-ustration" in his resignation letter to MEA's Managing Director stating: 

       I have highlighted major problems with the intercompany system and 
       implementation of our new computer systems, only to be instructed not to discuss 
       these matters further as they are not issues. I understand that the intercompany is 
       being reviewed next year, this was tried last year and absolutely nothing 
       happened. 

     ' 58.        The resignation letter was forwarded to LaGreca and Watson, among others. 

       59.        Additionally, in or around January 2000, a McCann treasury staff report prepared 

for LaGreca and reviewed in draft form by McCann's controller, noted the existence of "[mlany 

outstanding intercompany invoices (both receivable and payable) are several years old -most 

notably between London and New York     . . . . It appears likely that many of these accounts will 

not be settled in full . . . yet a reserve has not been established against which to eventually write 

them off.?' 

       60.    In late January or early February of 2000, an EMEA financial staff member 

reported on his project to identify EMEA7s intercompany exposures to Watson and McCann's 
                                              13 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

controller. The staff member estimated that the exposures may be as high as $20-30 million. 

       61.     In late March 2000, Watson and members of EMEA7s financial staff 

corresponded by e-mail with McCann's controller that the next step would be "agree with 

[McCann's controller on] the accounting treatment of these write offs." 

       62.        However, questions quickly surfaced concerning the thoroughness and accuracy 

of the EMEA's financial staff member's report. 

       63.     In early 2000, McCann hired a new Finance Director for EMEA. 

       64.        Watson told the EMEA Finance Director, that his priorities should be 

acquisitions, not financial reporting. 

       65.        EMEA's new Finance Director learned of the EMEA's financial staffs 

intercompany project.  After reviewing the work that had been done, the new Finance Director 

immediately concluded the intercompany project was inadequate and that a proper intercompany 

reconciliation required collecting all Schedules A and B which reflected each offices7 individual 

intercompny  receivabies and payables, and that the EiVIEA financial staff had not doce this. 

       66.    The EMEA Finance Director then initiated his own exercise to quantify 

intercompany exposures. 

       67.    Subsequently, the EMEA Finance Director warned Watson and McCann's 

controller that his staff did not receive the required schedules from markets to prepare the 

reconciliations.  On or about June 15,2000, EMEA's Finance Director sent an e-mail to 

McCannYs controller, with a copy to Watson, that stated: 

       for the last month we here in europe hq have been working on reconciling the 
       intercompany. We have made progress but still having difficulty getting local 
       schedules to tie into schedules submitted to ny and do not have schedules of any 
       kind from some offices.  Care to guess the last time the intercompany was 
                                              14 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

        actually reconciled?  Care to guess what we are finding so far?  Should I ask why 
        schedules A and B are not reconciled to balance sheets in ny on a quarterlylannual 
        basis. 

        68.    Watson responded "We have been dancing around this subject for years. Nobody 

want[ed] to address it." 

        69.    By the end of August 2000, EMEA's Finance Director still had been unable to 

complete the intercompany reconciliation project. 

        70.    In 2000 and 2001, McCann's management and employees resisted reconciliation 

of intercompany accounts and avoided addressing intercompany exposures due to the pressure to 

hit profit targets. 

       71.     In or around March 2000, Watson directed that sending intercompany disputes to 

local agencies for resolution be deferred while new stretch targets for profits were being sent to 

those agencies because this would increase the amount of profitability the agency had to deliver 

because they would have to cover any write-offs associateti with intercompany adjustments. 

       72.     In or around July 2000, concerned that EMEA would faii to reach profit targets, 

Watson wrote to EMEA's finance directors that: 

       Overall, the message is that we     to make the stretch goal.    will be held 
       responsible if we do not. . . . Put simply, the stretch goal is not a "goal", it is a 
       mandate and we are the people who make it   . . . by whatever means we can dream 
       up! (emphasis in original). 

       73.    Watson discussed with LaGreca the proposed timing of write-offs and his 

concerns that intercompany write-offs would affect his ability to deliver on the profit target in 

the EMEA region. 

       74.    In November 2000, Watson sent an e-mail to EMEA's Finance Director that 
                                              15 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

 summarized his conversations with LaGreca, and suggested that intercompany write-offs be 

 taken in 2001 rather than in 2000: 

        we want to implement this exercise at a time when people will have time to pick 
        up any itnercompany (sic) costs that are 'in dispute' and the best time to do this is 
        not now but rather at the beginning of 2001 (you will remember that we planned 
        to do this in the 1'' quarter in 2000 to leave the rest of the year for people to make 
        up any shortfalls resulting from this exercise). 

        75.    McCann financial management continued to be aware of the intercompany 

problem and they expressed concerns about intercompany related write-offs in 2001. 

        76.    In approximately the Spring of 2000, Watson and EMEA's controller suggested to 

McCann's controller that any intercompany write-offs should be treated as non-operating for 

purposes of bonus calculations for the European region. 

       77.     On February 12,2001, Watson e-mailed EMEA's controller (and others) and, 

indicated that LaGreca wanted to hold a meeting to analyze intercompany exposures and that: 

       to the extent we can afford it, to book them in the same quarter . . . we cannot 
       afford heavy write offs this year with reference to the intercompany problem. 
       This is something we are going to have to 'manage'  as, against my and 
       [McCann's controller's] wishes, our target for Europe profit this year has been 
       increased from our original submission. 

       78.    In early 200 1, McCann's Controller discussed with LaGreca an intercompany 

reconciliation plan that his deputy proposed.   This plan included recording older intercompany 

exposures as non-operating expenses. 

       79.     According to McCann's controller, LaGreca rejected the proposal because he 

wanted to first get a better understanding of the issue at hand, and the exposures themselves, and 

he did not agree with the treatment the controller's office was proposing. 

       80.        LaGreca did not specify what additional information he needed and did not 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

instruct his controller to conduct the exercise differently.  This intercompany project, like the 

earlier projects, was simply never completed. 

        81.    PwC continued to flag intercompany issues in 2000. For example, PwC US' 2000 

Audit Plan provided to IPG's Audit Committee identified intercompany activity as  an "area of 

higher risk" and noted that intercompany activity would be an area of audit focus for the year. 

        82.        Similarly, as in previous years, PwC UK, in its Audit Summary Memorandum, 

concluded that it was unable to state an opinion whether MEA intercompany balances were fairly 

stated. 

       83.     During the 2000 year end closing for MEA, PWC    UK  auditors discussed with 

McCannYs controller that the intercompany reconciliation remained in a "poor state." 

       84.     PWC UKYs Audit Summary Memorandum also flagged a significant £1 1 million 

intercompany in -transit entry in the "AR-Other" account and noted that intercompany balances 

in that account should be reclassified. 

                       IPG's  2001  Restructuring  2nd  Other Ass2t  Write-off 

       85.        During the second and third quarters of 2001, faced with a sharp downturn in the 

advertising market and problems arising fiom a recent significant acquisition, IPG initiated a 

restructuring exercise that led IPG to record a total charge of $645.6 million in the third quarter 

of 2001 ("Restructuring"). The Restructuring focused on write-offs primarily associated with 

severance costs, headcount reductions, and real estate lease terminations. 

       86.    Additionally, IPG wrote off $85.4 million of various unrealizable assets in the 

third quarter of 2001 ("Other Asset Write-off'). 

       87.        During the planning for the Restructuring and Other Asset Write-off in or around 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

May 2001, PG  requested that its subsidiaries, including McCann, provide information on all 

balance sheet exposures so that the company could address them as part of this exercise. 

        88.    In anticipation of this exercise, McCann agencies submitted information on 

intercompany exposures. For example, on or about May 22,2001, McCann's controller 

requested that McCann worldwide financial staff complete a template for certain balance sheet 

accounts, including amounts identified as "A/R Other Intercompany In-Transit" and "A/R Other 

Intercompany In Dispute." 

       89.     In response to these requests, on or about June 4,2001, EMEA's controller 

submitted to McCann's controller a schedule that showed $42 million in intercompany exposures 

for periods prior to January 1,2000. 

       90.    In approximately May or June 2001, IPG executives, including IPGYs CFO and 

the Head of IPG's Internal Audit, met with McCannYs financial management, including LaGreca 

and McCann's controller. 

       91.    During  these meetings, LaGreca and h4cC~mnYs controller produced schzdules 

that showed an approximately $20-$30 million intercompany write-off at McCann. 

       92.    IPGYs CFO and Head of Internal Audit reviewed these schedules and referred to 

McCannYs write-off submission as a "wish list" or "Christmas in July."  IPGYs CFO and Head of 

Internal Audit felt that McCann wanted to write-off assets without having to do any work and "to 

get relief and a free ride in terms of recovery of assets that they didn't know whether they were 

impaired or not ." 

       93.    IPGYs CFO then determined that the Restructuring would not include 

intercompany exposures because these exposures reflected operating expenses that were not 

                                             18 
---------------------Page 19---------------------

appropriate for restructuring under General Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"). 

       94.    Further, IPG's CFO and Head of Internal Audit told LaGreca and McCann7s 

controller that McCann needed further detailed support to show that intercompany assets were 

impaired and should be written off as part of the Other Asset Write-Off. 

       95.    Despite knowledge of this potential exposure, neither LaGreca nor McCann7s 

controller provided the additional information to IPG in 2001, nor did they set any reserves or 

write-off these amounts. 

                  A "Fundamental Breakdown of Internal Controls"      at McCann 

       96.    Due to the magnitude of write-offs at McCann in the Restructuring and Other 

Asset Write-off, during August and September 2001, IPG internal audit and PwC embarked on 

an extensive review of balance sheet exposures at McCann, with a particular focus on EMEA. 

       97.    PwC then expressed concerns about the exposures and related internal controls 

within McCann directly to the IPG Audit Zorxnittee. PwC  US'  worldwide engagement partner 

circulated a document to the Audit Cornittee  at its October 11,2001 meeting entitled 

"Opportunities to Enhance The Company's Internal Control Framework." The document stated: 

       [tlhe extent of full scope external audits has only been increased incrementally in 
       line with the continued growth of IPG based upon an assessment that the control 
       environment was sufficient to support the level of growth experienced. Recent 
       events, however, have revealed a fundamental breakdown of internal controls at a 
       minimum of two operating moups. [One of which was McCann.] (emphasis 
       added). 

       98.    PwC US' worldwide engagement partner later described one of the internal 

control weaknesses as a lack of timely reconciliation of inter and intra company activities. 

       99.    Following additional discussions, IPG7s CFO and Head of Internal Audit assured 
                                             19 
---------------------Page 20---------------------

PwC that remedial measures, including new financial staff and improved intercompany 

reconciliation processes, hlly  addressed any internal control issues. 

       100.   In the Fall of 2001, IPG and McCann removed McCannYs controller and 

transferred him to another hction  within IPGYs headquarters. 

       101.   During his job transition in or around September 2001, McCannys outgoing 

controller met with IPGys CFO and Head of Internal Audit and proposed a $30 million reserve 

for intercompany exposures. 

       102.   Other McCann executives, including LaGreca and McCannYs new controller, 

generally agreed with this proposal to set reserves, despite the fact a thorough intercompany 

reconciliation still had not been performed. 

       103.   IPGYs CFO believed, however, that the reserve request lacked detailed support 

and therefore could not be taken. 

       104.   During late 2001 and early 2002, PwC UK  continued to express concerns that 

intercompany tra:?sactions were iinproperly recorcied. 

       105.   As in previous years, for the year ended December 3 1,200 1, PwC UK qualified 

its opinion regarding MEAYs intercompany accounts in its Audit Summary Memorandum. PWC 

UKYs Audit Summary Memorandum also commented on intercompany amounts included in the 

"AR-Other" account, in addition to approximately $22 million of club dues that were recorded in 

an "AR-Current" account instead of intercompany accounts. 

                     IPG and McCann Finally Resolve Intercompany Issues 

       106.   In 2002, PGys Audit Committee summoned LaGreca to appear    at its meeting in 

April and directed that all PG  subsidiaries reconcile their intercompany accounts by September 

                                            20 
---------------------Page 21---------------------

 30,2002. 

        107.   As a result of this directive, on or about May 3,2002, McCann's new Controller 

announced that agencies had to reconcile all intercompany amounts by September 30,2002. 

        108.   The May 3 announcement also provided that agencies who did not eliminate their 

intercompany out-of-balance by June 10,2002 would be charged 10% of that amount, which 

would affect operating incentive amounts. 

        109.   In approximately late July 2002, EMEA claimed to have discovered that many 

receivables were aged and not collectible, and therefore required write-offs. 

        1 10.   During early August, IPG and PwC attempted to quantify exposures. 

        11 1.   On August 13,2002, IPG announced that it would restate its financial statements 

for the periods 1997 to March 3 1,2002, because it found a total of $68.5 million of charges, 

primarily in Europe, which had not been properly expensed over these years. Approximately 

$58 million of its proposed $68.5 million restatement was due to improperly expensed charges . 

for illtercompany activity within EMEA. 

       112.   On October 16,2002, IPG issued a press release announcing that it had uncovered 

$50 million in additional charges that had to be restated over the same period. Approximately 

$40 million of these additional charges reflected intercompany transactions withn  EMEA, 

including charges for club dues that needed to be written-off. 

       1 13.   On November 13,2002, IPG issued a press release announcing that it would 

restate an additional $60 million of charges in its restatement and that the final amount to be 

restated would be $18 1.3 million for the period 1997 through the quarter ended June 30,2002. 

       1 14.  In total, $10 1 million of the $18 1 related to intercompany transactions, and 
---------------------Page 22---------------------

approximately 71% of the intercompany charge was attributable to MEA and EMEA. 

                  Reason for Intercompany Misstatements     - The Drive for Profits 

        1 15.     Shortly before the restatement announcements, McCann officials drafted various 

documents that attempted to explain the cause of the intercompany problems. For example, in 

June 2002, EMEA's Managing Director requested that Watson draft an e-mail to explain how 

EMEA would not be able to reach its target if certain items were expensed and that EMEA 

should not be penalized for these write-offs. 

        116.     Watson drafted this document, which EMEA's Managing Director sent on or 

about June 5,2002.   In the intercompany section, the e-mail stated: 

       In common with other McCann regions, there are a large number of intercompany 
       accounts in EMEA that have not been reconciled for at least 10 years. This is 
       something that has built up over a long period of time.  It has nothing to do with 
       our performance  this year and quite fiankly, is something that should have been 
       cleared up a long time ago. As you know, it wasn't addressed earlier because of 
       its potential firstly, to expose seilsitive issues like the Russia problem and 
       secondly, to ~uldernline the pro:fit imperative that required ENfEA to use any 
       reserves it may have had to help deliver the 20-30% annual profit growth that we 
       have produced for the last several years. 

       11 7.   On or about August 9,2002, EMEA's controller faxed a memorandum to 

EMEA's Managing Director describing the reasons for the intercompany exposures at EMEA. 

The memorandum stated: "Throughout the late 1990's and into 2000, the ME system and Europe 

in particular did not address intercompany issues, partly due to a lack of cash in the region (there 

was little clear down of items) but more specifically due to the P&L impact." 

       11 8.   Finally, McCannYs controller, in his handwritten notes regarding intercompany 

taken on or about July 29,2002,  wrote: "Drive for Profits! ! Caused this." 
---------------------Page 23---------------------

                                   FIRST CLAIM FOR RELIEF 

                             Aiding and Abetting McCann's Violations 
                          of the Antifraud Provisions of the Exchange Act 
                   (Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule lob-5 thereunder) 

        119.     The Commission repeats and realleges each and every allegation contained in 

paragraphs 1 through 1 18, as if fully set forth herein. 

        120.   As alleged more fully above, McCann, by the use of the means and instruments of 

transportation and communication in interstate commerce and by the use of the mails, directly 

and indirectly: (a) employed devices, schemes and artifices to defraud; (b) made untrue 

statements of material facts or omitted to state material facts necessary in order to make the 

statements made, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; or 

(c) engaged in acts, practices or courses of business which operated or would operate as a fraud 

or deceit upon purchasers of securities. 

       121.   By  reason of the conduct described above, McCann violated Section lO(b) of the 

Exchange Act  [I 5 U.S.C. $ 78j(b)] and Rule 1%-5 [17 C.F.R. 5 240.10b-51 thereunder. 

       122.   By reason of the conduct described above, LaGreca and Watson, pursuant to 

Section 20(e) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. fj 78(t)(e)], aided and abetted McCann's violations 

of  Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 5 78j(b)] and Rule lob-5 [17 C.F.R. 5 240.10b- 

51 thereunder. 
---------------------Page 24---------------------

                                 SECOND CLAIM FOR  RELIEF 
                               Aiding and Abetting IPG's  Violations 
                          of the Reporting Provisions of the Exchange Act 
          (Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20,13a-1,13a-11  and 13a-13 
                                        thereunder) 

       123.   The Commission realleges and incorporates paragraphs 1 through 122 by 

reference as if fully set forth herein. 

       124.   IPG, whose securities are registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act, 

failed to file annual, quarterly and current reports with the Commission that were true and 

correct, and failed to disclose additional information to make the required statements not 

misleading. 

       125.   By reason of the conduct described above, IPG violated Section 13(a) of the 

Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.  4 78m(a)] and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 [17 C.F.R. 

54240.12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-131 thereunder. 

       126.   By reason of the conduct described above, LaG:-eca and Watso;:, pursuant to 

Section 20(e) of the Exchange Act 115 U.S.C. $7S(t)(e)], aided and abetted PG's violations of 

Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 4 78m(a)] and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 

13a-13 [17 C.F.R. 44240.12b-20, 13a-1,13a-11 and 13a-131 thereunder. 

                                  THIRD CLAIM FOR RELIEF 
                           Aiding and Abetting IPG's  Violations of the 
             Books and Records and Internal Control  Provisions of the Exchange Act 
                        (Section 13(b)(2)(A) and (B) of the Exchange Act) 

       127.   The Commission realleges and incorporates paragraphs 1 through 126 by 

reference as if fully set forth herein. 
                                            24 
---------------------Page 25---------------------

       128.   From at least 1997 through 2002, IPG, failed to make and keep books, records, 

and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflected the transactions and 

dispositions of its assets. 

       129.   From at least 1997 through 2002, IPG failed to devise and maintain a system of 

internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances, to record transactions, 

maintain accountability of its assets, and permit financial statements to be prepared in conformity 

with GAAP. 

       130.   By reason of the conduct described above, IPG violated Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 

(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. $78m(b)(2)(A) and (B)]. 

       13 1.   By reason of the conduct described above, LaGreca and Watson, pursuant to 

Section 20(e) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 5 78(t)(e)], aided and abetted IPGYs violation of 

Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and (B) [15 U.S.C. $ 78m(b)(2)(A) and (B)]. 

                                  PRAYER FOR RELIEF 

 TV'HEREFOE,      The Commission respectfully  requests that this Court enter 2. Fi~;ai Judgment: 

                                              I. 
       Permanently restraining and enjoining LaGreca and Watson, their agents, officers, 

servants, employees, attorneys, assigns and all those persons in active concert or participation 

with them, who receive actual notice of the Judgment by personal service or otherwise, and each 

of them £?om violating Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. $78j(b)] and Rule lob-5 

thereunder [ 17 C.F.R. $240.10b-51 and fiom aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 

13(b)(2)(A) and (B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S .C. $ $78m(a) and 78m(b)(2)(A) and (B)] and 

Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, 13a-13 [17 C.F.R. $$12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-131. 
---------------------Page 26---------------------

                                            11. 

       Ordering LaGreca and Watson to disgorge all gains, derived directly or indirectly, from 

their violative conduct alleged herein and to pay prejudgment interest thereon. 

                                            111. 

       Ordering LaGreca and Watson to pay a civil penalty pursuant to Section 21 (d)(3) of the 

Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §78u(d)(3)]. 

                                            IV. 

       Granting such other relief as this Court may deem just and proper. 

Dated:        3~,2008 

       New York, New York 

                                          Respectfully submitted, 

                                          Mark K. Schonfeld (WE-2792) 
                                          Attorney for Plaintiff 
                                          SECURITIES   AND   EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
                                          New York Regional Office 
                                          3 World Financial Center, Room 4300 
                                          New York, NY   1028 1 
                                          (212) 336-0068 (William Finkel) 
                                          (212) 336-1320 (fax) 

Of Counsel: 
Kay L. Lackey (Not admitted in New York) 
Robert Murphy 
William Finkel 
Amelia Cottrell 
                                            26 
