---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED                          STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                  the 

                  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No.  9116 / April 7, 2010 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 61856 / April 7, 2010 
 
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940 
Release No. 3009 / April 7, 2010 
 
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940 
Release No. 29203 / April 7, 2010 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3125 / April 7, 2010 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13847 
 
                                        ORDER INSTITUTING 
                                        ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-AND-
In the Matter of 
                      DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
                                        SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT 
MORGAN ASSET MANAGEMENT, INC.; 
 OF 1933, SECTIONS 4C, 15(b) AND 21C 
MORGAN KEEGAN & COMPANY, INC.; 
 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
JAMES C. KELSOE, JR.; and 
             OF 1934,  SECTIONS 9(b) AND 9(f) OF 
JOSEPH THOMPSON WELLER, CPA, 
          THE INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 
                                        1940, SECTIONS 203(e), 203(f) AND 203(k) 
Respondents. 
                          OF THE INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT 
                                        OF 1940 AND RULE 102(e)(1)(iii) OF THE 
                                        COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE  
                                                              
  
                                       I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in 
the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby 
are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Section 
21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and Sections 9(b) and 9(f) of the 
Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”) against Morgan Asset 
Management, Inc. (“Morgan Asset”); Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. (“Morgan Keegan”); 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

James C. Kelsoe, Jr. (“Kelsoe”); and Joseph Thompson Weller, CPA (“   Weller”) (collectively 
“Respondents”); pursuant to Section 15(b)(4) of the Exchange Act against Morgan Keegan; 
pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of  the Exchange Act against Morgan Asset, Kelsoe and Weller; 
pursuant to Sections 203(e) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) 
against Morgan Asset and Morgan Keegan; pursuant to Sections 203(f) and 203(k) of the Advisers  
Act against Kelsoe and Weller; and pursuant to Section 4C 1
                                                            of the Exchange Act and Rule 
102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice against Weller.2 
                                                                     
 
                                                II. 
                                                  
       After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that: 
                                                  
A.     RESPONDENTS  
 
       1. Morgan Asset       , incorporated in Tennessee on April 10, 1986, has been an 
investment adviser registered with the Commission at all relevant times.  Morgan Asset’s principal 
place of business is in Memphis, Tennessee.  Morgan Asset is a wholly-owned subsidiary of MK 
Holding, Inc., which in turn is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Regions Financial Corporation.   
 
       2. Morgan Keegan        , incorporated in Tennessee on June 27, 1969, has been registered 
with the Commission as a broker-dealer at all relevant times and as an investment adviser since  
July 27, 1992.  During the relevant time period, Morgan Keegan served as the principal 
underwriter and sole distributor of shares of the open-end Funds.  Morgan Keegan’s principal place  
of business is in Memphis, Tennessee.   
        
       3. Kelsoe      , 46 years of age, is a resident of Memphis, Tennessee.  During 2007, Kelsoe 
was a senior portfolio manager for Morgan Asset. He also was a Managing Director of Morgan 
Keegan.  Kelsoe is a Chartered Financial Analyst and previously held Series 7 and 65 licenses.  

                                                 
1
 Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:   
 
       The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any 
person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person 
is found . . . (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking 
in character or integrity, or to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) 
to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the 
securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
2
 Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
       The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . .  to have willfully violated, or willfully 
aided and abetted the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules and 
regulations thereunder. 
 
                                                2
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

Kelsoe was associated with Morgan Keegan at all relevant times, and was a registered  
representative of the firm from August 1994 through November 2008. 
        
       4. Weller     , 44 years of age, is a resident of Memphis, Tennessee. Weller has been 
employed by Morgan Keegan since 1992.  During the relevant period, he was Morgan Keegan’s 
Controller and head of its Fund Accounting Department.  He holds Series 7, 27, and 66 licenses 
and is a CPA who was previously  licensed in the State of Tennessee.  That license is currently 
lapsed.  Since at least January 1, 1993, Weller has been associated with the investment adviser arm 
of Morgan Keegan.  Additionally, from at least December 1997 through the present, Weller has 
been a registered representative associated with the broker-dealer arm of Morgan Keegan.   
 
B. OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES              
 
       5.     Helios Select Fund, Inc., formerly known as Morgan Keegan Select Fund, Inc. 
(“Select Fund”), incorporated in Maryland on October 27, 1998, has been an investment company 
registered with the Commission since its inception.  In 2007, the Select Fund contained three open-
end portfolios:  the Select High Income portfolio, the Select Intermediate Bond portfolio, and the  
Select Short Term Bond portfolio.   
        
       6.     Helios High Income Fund, Inc., formerly known as RMK High Income Fund, Inc., 
a closed-end fund incorporated in Maryland on April 16, 2003, has been an investment company 
registered with the Commission since its inception. 
        
       7.     Helios Multi-Sector High Income Fund, Inc., formerly known as RMK Multi-
Sector High Income Fund, Inc., a closed-end fund incorporated in Maryland on November 14, 
2005 and has been an investment company registered with the Commission since its inception.   
        
       8.     Helios Strategic Income Fund, Inc., formerly known as RMK Strategic Income  
Fund, Inc., a closed-end fund incorporated in Maryland on January 16, 2004 has been an 
investment company registered with the Commission since its inception.   
        
       9.     Helios Advantage Income Fund, Inc., formerly known as RMK Advantage Income 
Fund, Inc., a closed-end fund incorporated September 7, 2004, has been an investment company 
registered with the Commission since its inception.  
        
       10.    <comp.>Morgan Asset, through Kelsoe, managed the Helios Select Fund, Inc., the Helios 
High Income Fund, Inc., the Helios Multi-Sector High Income Fund, Inc., the Helios Strategic 
Income Fund, Inc., and the Helios Advantage Income Fund, Inc.</> (collectively, the “Funds”) from 
at least November 2004 through July 29, 2008.   

                                              3
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
C. THE FRAUDULENT SCHEME                
        
                                           Overview  
 
       11.    During various periods between at least <date.>January 2007</> and <date.>July 2007</>, the daily <item.>net 
asset value3</>
            (“NAV”) of each of the Funds was materially inflated as a result of the fraudulent 
conduct of Respondents.  Kelsoe, an employee of Morgan Asset and Morgan Keegan, was the 
portfolio manager for the Funds. Weller was an officer and treasurer of the Funds and signed and 
certified their periodic reports to the Commission.   
        
       12.    Respondent Morgan Keegan, a registered broker-dealer and registered investment  
adviser, was the principal underwriter and exclusive distributor of the Funds’ shares. Morgan 
Keegan was designated in each of the Funds’ prospectuses as authorized to consummate 
transactions in the securities of the respective Fund.  The Funds’ Boards of Directors were 
responsible for pricing the Funds’ securities in accordance with the Funds’ valuation policies and 
procedures.  Each Fund’s Board of Directors delegated this pricing responsibility to Morgan 
Keegan, by contract.  Morgan Keegan priced each portfolio’s securities and calculated its daily 
NAV through its Fund Accounting Department (“Fund Accounting”).  Weller, Morgan Keegan’s 
Controller and Head of Fund Accounting, along with other Morgan Keegan personnel, staffed a 
“Valuation Committee” that purportedly oversaw Fund Accounting’s processes and evaluated the 
prices assigned to securities.  Morgan Keegan and Weller failed, despite multiple red flags, to 
adequately fulfill Morgan Keegan’s responsibilities, as delegated to it by the Funds’ Boards of 
Directors, to price the Funds’ securities in accordance with their valuation policies and procedures 
regarding valuation.  For example, Fund Accounting accepted unsubstantiated “price adjustments” 
submitted by Kelsoe that inaccurately inflated the price of certain securities, contrary to the Funds’  
policies and procedures.  Fund Accounting failed to document justifications for such pricing 
adjustments.   
        
       13.    The Funds’ valuation policies and procedures required that dealer quotes be 
obtained for certain securities.  Unbeknownst to Fund Accounting and the Funds’ independent 
auditor (“Independent Auditor”), Kelsoe actively screened and manipulated the dealer quotes that 
Fund Accounting and the Independent Auditor obtained from at least one broker-dealer.  Kelsoe 
also failed to advise Fund Accounting or the Funds’ Boards of Directors when he received 
information indicating that the Funds’ prices for certain securities should be reduced.   
        
       14.    Each Fund held securities backed by subprime mortgages, and the market for such 
securities deteriorated in the first half of 2007.  Kelsoe’s actions fraudulently forestalled declines in 
the NAVs of the Funds that would have occurred as a result of the deteriorating market, absent his 
intervention.  Morgan Keegan fraudulently published NAVs for the Funds without following 
procedures reasonably designed to determine that the NAVs were accurate. 

                                                 
3 
       The “net asset value” or “NAV” of an investment company is the company’s total assets 
minus its total liabilities.  An investment company calculates the NAV of a single share (or the 
“per share NAV”) by dividing its NAV by the number of shares that are outstanding. 
                                               4
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                 Acting Contrary to Disclosures  
 
       15.     Each Fund held, in varying amounts, securities backed by subprime mortgages.  
Many of these securities lacked readily available market quotations and, as a result, were to be 
internally priced by the Funds’ Boards of Directors, using “fair value” methods.  Under Section 
2(a)(41)(B) of the Investment  Company Act, the Funds must use market values for portfolio 
securities with readily available market quotations and determine fair value for all other portfolio 
assets.  The fair value of securities for which market quotations are not readily available is the 
price the Funds would reasonably expect to receive on a current sale of the security.4 
                                                                                      
 
       16.     The Funds adopted valuation procedures for pricing the Funds’ portfolio securities 
and, by contract, assigned the task of following those procedures to Morgan Keegan. The Funds’  
valuation procedures for fair-valued securities mandated that such securities should be valued in 
“good faith” by the Valuation Committee, considering a series of general and specific factors 
including “fundamental analytical data relating to the investment,” “an evaluation of the forces 
which influence the market in which the securities are purchased or sold” and “events affecting the 
security.”  The procedures, as set forth in the prospectus, required the Valuation Committee to 
maintain a written report “documenting the manner in which the fair value of a security was 
determined and the accuracy of the valuation made based on the next reliable public price 
quotation for that security.”  The procedures also required that prices assigned to securities be 
periodically validated through, among other means, broker-dealer quotes.  The procedures 
specified that prices obtained from a broker-dealer could only be overridden when there was “a  
reasonable basis to believe that the price provided [did] not accurately reflect the fair value of the 
portfolio security.”  Whenever a price was overridden, the procedures mandated the basis for 
overriding the price to be “documented and provided to the Valuation Committee for its review.”   
 
       17.     In filings with the Commission, the Funds stated that the fair value of securities 
would be determined by Morgan Asset’s Valuation Committee using procedures adopted by the 
Funds.  In fact, the responsibility was delegated to Morgan Keegan, which primarily staffed the 
Valuation Committee.  Morgan Keegan and the Valuation Committee failed to comply with the 
Funds’ procedures in several ways.  Among other things: (1) the Valuation Committee left pricing 
decisions to lower level employees in Fund Accounting who did not  have the training or 
qualifications to make fair value pricing determinations; (ii) Fund Accounting personnel relied on 
Kelsoe’s “price adjustments” to determine the prices assigned to portfolio assets, without obtaining 
any basis for or documentation supporting the price adjustments or applying the factors set forth in 
the procedures; (iii) Fund Accounting personnel gave Kelsoe excessive discretion in validating the 
prices of portfolio securities by allowing him to determine which dealer quotes to use and which to 
ignore, without obtaining documentation to support his adjustments; and (iv) the Valuation 

                                                 
4
  See AICPA Audit and Accounting Guide - Investment Companies (Sect. 2.35-2.39), which 
incorporates Accounting Series Release No. 118 (“ASR 118”). The Commission has provided 
interpretative guidance related to financial reporting in the Accounting Series Releases, which is 
included in the Codification of Financial Reporting Policies. Thus, conformity with the ASR 118 
is required by Commission rules and complies with GAAP. See also     Articles 1-01(a) and 6.03 of 
Regulation S-X. 
                                                5
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

Committee and Fund Accounting did not ensure that the fair value prices assigned to many of the 
portfolio securities were periodically re-evaluated, allowing them to be carried at stale values for 
many months at a time.   
        
       18.     Morgan Asset adopted its own procedures to determine the actual fair value to 
assign to portfolio securities and to “validate” those values “periodically.”   Among other things, 
those procedures provided that  “[q]uarterly reports listing all securities held by the Funds that 
were fair valued during the quarter under review, along with explanatory notes for the fair values 
assigned to the securities, shall be presented to the Board for its review.”   Morgan Asset failed to 
fully implement this provision of its pricing policy. 
 
       19.     Between at least January 2007 and July 2007, Kelsoe had his assistant send 
approximately 262 “price adjustments” to Fund Accounting.  These adjustments were contained in  
approximately 40 emails sent by the assistant to a staff accountant in Fund Accounting who 
calculated the Funds’ NAVs.  The adjustments were communications by Kelsoe to Fund 
Accounting concerning the price of specific portfolio securities. In many instances, these 
adjustments were arbitrary and did not reflect fair value.   
 
       20.     Kelsoe’s price adjustments were routinely entered upon receipt by the staff 
accountant into a spreadsheet used to calculate the NAVs of the Funds.    
        
       21.     Kelsoe knew his prices were being used to compute the Funds’ NAVs.  Among 
other things, he received bi-weekly reports on the Funds’ holdings and their prices which, by 
comparison with previous reports, indicated that his price adjustments were being used and were 
directly affecting the NAVs.   
        
       22.     Fund Accounting did not request, and Kelsoe did not supply, supporting 
documentation for his price adjustments.  Fund Accounting and the Funds did not record which 
securities had been assigned prices by Kelsoe. 
 
       23.     As part of the Funds’ valuation procedures, Fund Accounting sometimes requested 
third party broker-dealer quotes as a means to validate the prices it had assigned to the Funds’ 
securities.  The Funds’ Independent Auditor used similar requests for third party broker-dealer 
quotes as part of its annual year-end audits of the Funds. Fund Accounting or the Independent 
Auditor would periodically send such requests to  broker-dealers asking them to provide quotations 
for various portfolio securities.   
 
       24.     When month-end dealer   quotes were received by Fund Accounting, an employee of 
Fund Accounting performed a cursory review to estimate whether they contained any securities 
prices that varied from current portfolio prices by more than five percent.  If so, then Kelsoe 
determined whether the current price should be maintained or a new price—which may or may not 
have been the price given by the broker-dealer—should be assigned to the security.  Thus, Fund 
Accounting routinely allowed Kelsoe to determine whether dealer quotes were used or ignored.    
 

                                                6
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

       25.    Fund Accounting did not record which dealer quotes had been overridden at  
Kelsoe’s instruction.   
 
       26.    Weller was the head of Fund Accounting and a member of the Valuation 
Committee.  He knew, or was highly reckless in not knowing, of the deficiencies in the 
implementation of valuation procedures set forth above, and did nothing to remedy them or 
otherwise to make sure fair-valued securities were accurately priced and the Funds’ NAVs were 
accurately calculated. Among other things, Weller knew that: (i) the Valuation Committee did not 
supervise Fund Accounting’s application of the valuation factors; (ii) Kelsoe was supplying fair 
value price adjustments for specific securities to Fund Accounting; (iii) the members of the 
Valuation Committee did not  know which securities Kelsoe supplied fair values for or what those 
fair values were, and did not receive supporting documentation for those values; and (iv) the only 
pricing test regularly applied by the Valuation Committee  was the “look back” test, which 
compared the sales price of any security sold by a Fund to the valuation of that security used in the 
NAV calculation for the five business days preceding the sale.  The test only covered securities 
after they were sold; thus, at any given time, the Valuation Committee never knew how many 
securities’ prices could ultimately be validated by it.   Weller nevertheless signed the Funds’  
annual and semi-annual financial reports on Forms N-CSR, filed with the Commission, including 
certifications pursuant to Sections 302 and 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   
 
       27.    Morgan Keegan, acting through Weller and Fund Accounting, failed to employ 
reasonable procedures to price the Funds’ portfolio securities and, as a result of that failure, did not 
calculate accurate NAVs for the Funds.  Despite these failures, Morgan Keegan recklessly 
published daily NAVs of the Funds which it could not know were accurate and, as distributor of 
the Funds’ shares, sold shares to investors based on those NAVs.   
 
              Kelsoe’s Fraudulent Manipulation of the Funds’ Securities Prices  
 
       28.    Between at least January 2007 and July  2007, Kelsoe manipulated the dealer quotes  
obtained from at least one broker-dealer (“the Submitting Firm”).  At about the time Fund 
Accounting or the Independent Auditor sent requests for dealer quotes to the Submitting Firm, 
Kelsoe would confer by e-mail or phone with his contact there (the “Salesman”) regarding the 
quotes.  Among other times, Kelsoe had such conversations concerning the month-end quotes for  
December 31, 2006, February 28, 2007, and March 31, 2007.   
        
       29.    In some instances, even after causing the Submitting Firm to increase its quotes, 
Kelsoe subsequently provided price adjustments to Fund Accounting that were higher than even 
the Submitting Firm’s increased quotes.  These adjustments were not consistent with the Funds’ 
procedures.  Kelsoe and the Salesman also discussed, and the Submitting Firm frequently 
provided, interim quotes that were lower than the prices at which the Funds were valuing certain 
bonds, but higher than the initial quotes that the  Submitting Firm had intended to provide.  The  
interim quotes were accommodations to Kelsoe to enable him to avoid marking down the securities 
to the fair value in one adjustment.  Kelsoe knew that the interim quotes did not reflect fair value, 
that the Submitting Firm would provide lower quotes in response to future pricing validation 
requests, and that he would be required to mark down the securities over time, but he did not 

                                               7
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

disclose that information to Fund Accounting, the  Funds’ Boards of Directors or the Independent 
Auditor.     
 
       30.    For example, on April 25, 2007, the Salesman and Kelsoe spoke by phone about 
dealer quotes that would be submitted in connection with the March 31, 2007 audit by the 
Independent Auditor.  The Salesman then told Kelsoe that the Submitting Firm’s trading desk had 
priced down many of the bonds in the Funds.  Kelsoe asked the Salesman not to provide low dealer  
quotes that reflected actual bid prices.  
        
       31.    As a result of the conversation, on April 30, 2007, the Submitting Firm provided 
quotes to the Independent Auditor reflecting interim prices for certain bonds, which were higher  
than the quotes the Submitting Firm originally intended to supply, but lower than the Funds’ then 
current values.  For example, the Submitting Firm priced down one bond (“the Long Beach bond”) 
from the previous confirmation price of $81 to $65 as an “interim” step.   This interim reduction to  
$65 was approximately half of the mark-down to $50 that the Submitting Firm’s trading desk 
initially had told the Salesman to communicate to the Independent Auditor for the Long Beach 
bond.  On April 26, 2007, Kelsoe sent a price adjustment  to Fund Accounting marking down the  
price of the Long Beach bond from $78, the price at which the Funds’ were valuing the bond at 
that time, to $72.  Fund Accounting promptly entered the $72 price, which was substantially higher  
than fair value, into the spreadsheet used to calculate the Funds’ NAV. 
        
       32.      The Submitting Firm also refrained from submitting certain quotes to Fund 
Accounting, where the quotes would have been lower than the current valuations being used by the 
Funds, as the result of conversations between Kelsoe and the Salesman.   
        
       33.    Kelsoe did not disclose to Fund Accounting or the Funds’ Boards that he had 
received quotes from the Submitting Firm which were lower than the current valuations recorded 
by the Funds, and that the Submitting Firm had refrained from submitting quotes to Fund 
Accounting or had submitted quotes at higher prices than it had originally planned.  Kelsoe also 
did not disclose that he caused the Submitting Firm to alter or withhold quotes. 
                                                 
                                    The Knollwood Bonds  
                                                 
       34.    In July 2006, Kelsoe purchased from the Submitting Firm, for one or more of the 
Funds, a Knollwood Collateralized Debt Obligation (“Knollwood bond”), with the guarantee that 
the Submitting Firm would make a “locked market” and buy it back in six months at the same 
price, less two coupon payments that the Funds were to receive in the interim.  In January 2007, 
Kelsoe agreed with the Submitting Firm to continue holding the Knollwood bond. On March 30, 
2007, the Independent Auditor requested quotes from the Submitting Firm on a number of the  
Funds’ bonds, including the Knollwood bond, for its year-end audit.  On April 30, 2007, the 
Submitting Firm returned the requested quotes to both the Independent Auditor and Kelsoe; 
however, it did not provide a quote for the Knollwood bond.  Consequently, the Knollwood bond 
continued to be maintained at $92, a price higher than fair value, in the NAV of the relevant Funds.   
        

                                               8
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

       35.    On May 16, 2007, when Morgan Keegan was still valuing the Knollwood bond at 
$92, Kelsoe and the Salesman discussed the fact that Morgan Keegan would be requesting another 
quote for it from the Submitting Firm.  Kelsoe told  the Salesman not to provide a quote to Morgan  
Keegan unless it was $87.50 or higher.  On May 18, 2007, the Salesman advised Kelsoe that he  
had obtained a $65 quote from the Submitting Firm’s trading desk for the Knollwood bond.  On 
June 5, 2007, Kelsoe communicated his unhappiness about the $65 quote to the Submitting Firm, 
and threatened to stop doing business with it.  On June 7, Kelsoe provided a price adjustment for 
the Knollwood bond at $88, which was not consistent with fair  value. On June 22, as a result of 
Kelsoe’s comments, the Submitting firm provided a list of requested quotes to Morgan Keegan, but 
left the space for the Knollwood quote blank. As a result, the Funds continued to price the 
Knollwood bond at $88, substantially higher than fair value. Kelsoe did not advise Fund 
Accounting, the Independent Auditor or the Funds’ Boards of Directors that the Submitting Firm 
had provided to Kelsoe a quote lower than the price at which the Funds were holding the bonds, or 
that he had prevailed upon the Submitting Firm not to supply the quotes to Fund Accounting or the 
Independent Auditor. 
 
                                      The Terwin Bonds  
 
       36.    In addition to engaging in affirmative misconduct to inflate the NAVs of the Funds, 
Kelsoe also failed to inform Fund Accounting in March 2007—in breach of his fiduciary duty as 
portfolio manager to the Funds—that he had become aware that seven Terwin Mortgage Trust  
bonds (“Terwin bonds”) held by the Funds had declined substantially in value. 
        
       37.    On or about March 15, 2007, Kelsoe placed a call to a broker-dealer that was the 
issuer, distributor, and market maker for the Terwin bonds, to discuss a swap transaction.  In  
discussing the terms of the swap, Kelsoe learned that the values of the Terwin bonds had decreased 
substantially and that the Submitting Firm would be lowering its dealer quotes in response to a 
request that would shortly be sent out by Fund Accounting in connection with the Funds’ audit, for 
prices as of March 31, 2007.   
        
       38.    Despite receiving this news in mid-March 2007, Kelsoe’s first communication with 
Fund Accounting concerning reducing the price of certain Terwin bonds came in the form of a 
price adjustment submitted to Fund Accounting by Kelsoe’s assistant via e-mail on Thursday, 
March 29, 2007.  Over the next day and weekend, Kelsoe informed Fund Accounting of the news 
he had heard two weeks earlier. On April 2, 2007, before the market opened, Fund Accounting 
lowered the value of all seven of the Terwin bonds effective as of March 31, 2007.   
        
       39.    As the result of Kelsoe’s delay, the bonds were materially overvalued by the Funds 
during the last two weeks of March 2007. 
 
               Misrepresentations to Investors and the Funds’ Boards of Directors  
   
       40.    Kelsoe also made fraudulent misrepresentations and omissions of material fact  
directly to the Funds’ investors concerning the Funds’ performance.  Specifically, in each of the 
Funds annual and semi-annual reports filed with the Commission on Forms N-CSR during the  

                                               9
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

relevant period (including, among others, the Annual Report for the Morgan Keegan Select Fund, 
Inc. for the year-ended June 30, 2007 filed with the Commission on October 4, 2007), Kelsoe  
included a signed letter to investors reporting on the Funds’ performance “based on net asset 
value.”  Given his actions to manipulate the Funds’ NAVs, Kelsoe knew the performance he 
reported was materially misstated.  Kelsoe and, through him, Morgan Asset made untrue 
statements of material fact concerning the Funds’ performance in the Funds’ annual and semi-
annual reports filed with the Commission on Forms N-CSR.  Morgan Asset,   through Kelsoe, also 
defrauded the Funds by providing a quarterly valuation packet reflecting inflated prices for certain 
securities to the Funds’ Boards, failing to disclose  to the Funds’ Boards information indicating that 
the Funds’ NAVs were inflated, and that Kelsoe  was actively screening and manipulating  dealer 
quotes and providing Fund Accounting with unsubstantiated price adjustments.  In addition, the 
prospectuses described Morgan Asset as responsible for fair valuation of the Funds’ portfolios. 
 
D. VIOLATIONS          
 
       41.    As a result of the conduct described above, Respondents Morgan Asset, Kelsoe, 
Morgan Keegan and Weller willfully violated Section 17(a) of the Securities Act; Section 10(b) of  
the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5, thereunder; which prohibit fraudulent conduct in the offer and 
sale of securities and in connection with the purchase or sale of securities.   
        
       42. Alternatively, Morgan Asse    t and Morgan Keegan willfully violated Section 17(a) 
of the Securities Act; Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and 
Respondents Kelsoe and Weller willfully aided and abetted and caused violations of Section 10(b) 
of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5, thereunder.  
        
       43.    As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent Morgan Asset willfully 
violated, and Respondent Kelsoe willfully aided and abetted and caused violations of, Section 
206(4) and of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-7 thereunder; which prohibit fraudulent, deceptive 
or manipulative practices or courses of business by an investment adviser, and requires investment 
advisers to adopt and implement written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent 
violation of the Advisers Act and the rules thereunder by their supervised persons, respectively. 
 
       44         As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent Morgan Asset willfully 
violated, and Respondents Kelsoe and Morgan Keegan willfully aided and abetted and caused 
violations of, Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act; which prohibit fraudulent conduct 
by an investment adviser.  
 
       45.    As a result of the conduct described above, Respondents Morgan Asset, Kelsoe and 
Weller willfully violated, and Respondent Morgan Keegan willfully aided and abetted and caused 
violations of, Section 34(b) of the Investment Company Act, which prohibits untrue statements of 
material fact or omissions to state facts necessary in order to make the stat ements made, in the light 
of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in any registration statement,  
report or other document filed pursuant to the Investment Company Act or the keeping of which is 
required pursuant to Section 31(a) of the Investment Company Act. 
 

                                              10
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

       46.    As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent Morgan Keegan willfully 
violated, and Respondents Morgan Asset, Kelsoe and Weller willfully aided and abetted and 
caused violations of, Rule 22c-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act, which makes it 
unlawful for registered investment companies issuing redeemable securities, persons designated in 
such issuer’s prospectus as authorized to consummate transactions in such securities, and principal 
underwriters of or dealers in such securities, to sell, redeem, or repurchase such securities except at 
prices based on their current net asset values. 
        
       47.    As a result of the conduct described above, Respondents Morgan Asset, Morgan 
Keegan, Kelsoe, and Weller willfully aided and abetted and caused violations of Rule 38a-1 
promulgated under the Investment Company Act, which requires that a registered investment  
company adopt and implement written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent 
violation of the federal securities laws, including policies and procedures that provide for oversight 
of compliance by the investment company’s investment adviser.   
        
                                              III. 
        
       In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement, the Commission deems it 
necessary and appropriate in the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist 
proceedings be instituted to determine: 
        
A.     Whether the allegations set forth in Section II are true and, in connection therewith, to afford 
Respondents an opportunity to establish any defenses to such allegations;  
 
B.     What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against Respondent 
Morgan Keegan pursuant to Section 15(b)(4) of the Exchange Act and against Morgan Asset, 
Kelsoe and Weller pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, including, but not limited to, 
disgorgement and civil penalties pursuant to Section 21B of the Exchange Act;  
 
C.     What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against Respondents  
Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset pursuant to Section   203(e) of the Advisers Act, and against 
Respondents Kelsoe and Weller pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, including, but not 
limited to, civil penalties pursuant to Section 203(i) of the Advisers Act;  
 
D.        What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against Respondents  
Morgan Keegan, Morgan Asset, Kelsoe and Weller pursuant to Section 9(b) of the Investment  
Company Act, including, but not limited to, civil penalties pursuant to Section 9(d) of the  
Investment Company Act;    
 
E.     Whether, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Section 21C of the Exchange Act, 
Section 203(k) of the Advisers Act, and Section 9(f) of the Investment Company Act, Respondents 
Morgan Asset, Kelsoe, Morgan Keegan and Weller should be ordered to cease and desist from 
committing or causing violations of and any future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, 
Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder;   
 

                                               11
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

F.     Whether, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Section 21C of the Exchange Act, 
Section 203(k) of the Advisers Act, and Section 9(f) of the Investment Company Act, Respondents  
Morgan Asset, Morgan Keegan, and Kelsoe should be ordered to cease and desist from committing 
or causing violations of and any future violations of Sections 206(1), 206(2) and 206(4) of the 
Advisers Act, Rule 206(4)-7 thereunder, and Section 34(b) of the Investment Company Act; 
 
G.     Whether, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Section 21C of the Exchange Act, 
Section 203(k) of the Advisers Act, and Section 9(f) of the Investment Company Act, Respondents  
Morgan Asset and Kelsoe should be ordered to cease and desist from committing or causing 
violations of and any future violations of Sections 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-7 
thereunder; 
 
H.     Whether, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Section 21C of the Exchange Act, 
Section 203(k) of the Advisers Act, and Section 9(f) of the Investment Company Act, Respondents  
Morgan Asset, Morgan Keegan, Kelsoe and Weller should be ordered to cease and desist from 
committing or causing violations of and any future violations of Rule 22c-1, promulgated under the 
Investment Company Act; 
 
I.     Whether, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Section 21C of the Exchange Act, 
Section 203(k) of the Advisers Act, and Section 9(f) of the Investment Company Act, Respondents  
Morgan Asset, Morgan Keegan, Kelsoe and Weller should be ordered to cease and desist from 
committing or causing violations of and any future violations of Rule 38a-1, promulgated under the 
Investment Company Act; 
 
J.     Whether, pursuant to Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, it is appropriate to censure or deny Respondent Weller the 
privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission; and 
 
K.      Whether Respondents should be ordered to pay disgorgement pursuant to Section 8A(e) of 
the Securities Act, Section 21C(e) of the Exchange Act, Section 203(i) of the Advisers Act and 
Section 9(e) of the Investment Company Act. 
                                                
                                              IV. 
        
       IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the questions 
set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened not earlier than 30 days and not later than 60 days 
from service of this Order at a time and place to be fixed, and before an Administrative Law Judge  
to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 
C.F.R. § 201.110.  
        
       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents shall file an Answer to the allegations 
contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as provided by Rule 220 
of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220.  
        

                                              12
 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

        If Respondent fails to file the directed answer, or fails to appear at a hearing after being duly 
notified, the Respondent may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be determined against 
him upon consideration of this  Order, the allegations of which may be deemed to be true as 
provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310      of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R.  
§§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f) and 201.310. 
         
        This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondent personally or by certified mail. 
         
        IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an initial 
decision no later than 300 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to Rule 360(a)(2) of 
the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  
         
        In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission engaged 
in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually related 
proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter, except as witness 
or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice.  Since this proceeding is not “rule making” within          
the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it is not deemed subject to the 
provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any final Commission action. 
         
 By the Commission. 
 
 
        Elizabeth                                                                   M. Murphy
        Secretary                                                              

                                                      13
 
