---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 68949 / February 19, 2013 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3445 / February 19, 2013 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-12938 

                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Michael Lowther, CPA 
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                          
        

       On January 28, 2008, Michael Lowther , CPA (“Lowther”) was denied the privilege of  
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against him pursuant to Rule 
102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                                   This order is issued in response to 
Lowther’s application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 

       The Commission found that Lowther   engaged in improper professional conduct in his 
role as the concurring reviewer for Arthur Andersen LLP’s (“Andersen”) audits and reviews of 
<comp.>Enron Corp.</>’s (“Enron”) financial statements for the year ended <date.>December 31, 1997</> through the 
third quarter ended <date.>September 30, 2001</>.  During this period, Enron senior executives engaged in 
a scheme to materially overstate the company’s <item.>earnings</> and <item.>cash flows</> while concealing <item.>debt</> 
through a variety of complex structured transactions, related party transactions, misleading 
disclosures, and a widespread abuse of generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).  For 
each year during this time period, Andersen issued an auditor’s report falsely stating that Enron’s 
financial statements were presented fairly, in all material respects, in conformity with GAAP, 
and that Andersen had conducted its audit of those financial statements in accordance with 
generally accepted auditing standards.  Lowther engaged in improper professional conduct by 
concurring with the audit engagement team’s faulty conclusions regarding Enron’s accounting 
                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2775 dated January 28, 2008.  Lowther was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after two  years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                     

for certain transactions and by authorizing the issuance by Andersen of unqualified audit reports 
that were materially false and misleading. 

       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Lowther     
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Lowther   is not, a t this time, seeking to appear 
or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume 
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be 
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Lowther’s   
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard    in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 

       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 

       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Lowther , it appears that he has complied with the terms of the January 28, 2008 order denying    
him the privilege of appearing or  practicing  before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct, or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
and that Lowther , by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee 
of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in 
his practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to 
be filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is 
accordingly, 

        
        
        
        
        
        

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this rule may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a hearing; 
however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated by the 
Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
 

                                                 2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                                

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice that 
Michael Lowther, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                            
                                            
                                           Elizabeth M. Murphy    
                                           Secretary  

                                              3 
