---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                                    
 UNITED                                STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                          the 

 SECURITIES                         AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 64184 / April 5, 2011 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3257 / April 5, 2011 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14321 
 
                                                   ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
In the Matter of
                                  ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-
                                             AND-DESIST PROC             EEDINGS PURSUANT 
Lovelock & Lewes,
                                 TO SECTIONS 4C AND 21C OF THE 
Price Waterhouse, Bangalore,  
                    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Price Waterhouse & Co., Bangalore,
                AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
Price Waterhouse, Calcutta, and  
                 COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
Price Waterhouse & Co., Calcutta, 
                MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                                   REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-
       Respondents.                                AND-DESIST ORDER  
 
        
                                                    
 
                                              I.  
        
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Lovelock & 
Lewes (“Lovelock”), Price Waterhouse, Bangalore (“PW Bangalore”), Price Waterhouse & Co., 
Bangalore (“PW Co. Bangalore”), Price Waterhouse Calcutta (“PW Calcutta”), and Price 
Waterhouse & Co., Calcutta (“PW  Co. Calcutta”) (collectively “PW India,” the “PW India Firms”  
or “Respondents”) pursuant to Sections 4C1
                                          and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

                                                        
1 
 Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:                            
   The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the privilege of                        
appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the requisite                          
qualifications to represent others; (2) to be lacking in ch  aracter or integrity, or to have engaged in unethical or                          
improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully viol            ated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any  
provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.  
                                                 1 

---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                     
(“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.   2 
                                                                                   
                                                   
                                                 II.  
        
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over Respondents and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting 
Public Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making 
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth 
below. 
                                                III.  
        
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offer, the Commission finds    3
                                                                                   that: 
        
A. SUMMARY     
 
       1.       This matter involves violations of federal securities laws and improper professional 
conduct by PW India  while PW Bangalore served as auditor of record for <comp.>Satyam Computer 
Services Limited</> (“Satyam”) from 2005 through January 2009.  In connection with Satyam’s <date.>2005</>­
<date.>2008</> publicly-filed financial statements, Satyam  engaged in fraudulent financial accounting by 
falsifying the company’s <item.>revenue</>, <item.>income</>, <item.>earnings per share</>, <item.>cash</>, and <item.>interest bearing deposits</>.  
Satyam acknowledged that it falsely reported over $1 billion in revenue and cash, among other 
items, in its publicly filed financial statements.  In January 2009, Satyam submitted a Form 6-K 
with the Commission indicating that “Price Waterhouse’s audit reports and opinions in relation to  
Satyam’s financial statements from the quarter ended June 30, 2000 until the quarter ended 
September 30, 2008 should no longer be relied upon.”  
 
       2.       Former officers and senior managers at Satyam, an Indian information technology 
service company with depository shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) during 
the relevant period, directed the creation of over 6,000 false invoices that they ensured were entered 
into the company’s general ledger and falsely recorded as, among other things, revenue, income, 
and accounts receivable in Satyam’s publicly filed financial statements.  Former senior management  
at Satyam manufactured scores of false bank statements, confirmations, and supporting documents  
                                                        
2
 Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that:  “[t]he Commission may censure a person or deny, temporarily                                                                       
or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged    
in unethical or improper professional conduct.”    
3 
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents' Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other    
person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   
                                                     2
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                                    
to reflect payment of the false invoices and created over $1 billion in fictitious cash balances and 
other interest bearing deposits.  This false information made Satyam appear to be substantially more 
profitable and financially sound than was actually the case.  When the fraud was revealed, the price  
of Satyam’s depository shares plummeted and institutional investors located in the United States  
sustained realized losses of over $450 million. 
 
       3.       PW Bangalore issued unqualified opinions on Satyam’s March 31, 2005, March 31, 
2006, March 31, 2007, and March 31, 2008 financial statements.  Each of these audit reports stated 
that “Price Waterhouse” conducted its audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards in the United States (“GAAS”) and that Satyam’s financial statements were presented in 
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).  Each audit report also stated  
that the underlying audit was conducted in accordance with Public Company Accounting 
Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) Standards.  Contrary to the audit reports, PW India did not conduct  
Satyam’s audits in accordance with PCAOB Standards, which is now understood to include 
GAAS.  4
          Specifically, the PW India partners and staff on the Satyam engagement team (“Satyam  
engagement team” or “engagement team”) failed to maintain control of the confirmation process 
with respect to cash and cash equivalent balances as well as Satyam’s accounts receivables.  The 
failure to properly execute third-party confirmation procedures resulted in the fraud at Satyam  
going undetected until the former chairman’s public confession in January 2009. 
 
       4.       The failures in the confirmation process on the Satyam audit were not limited to 
that engagement, but were indicative of a quality control failure throughout PW India.  During the 
relevant period, PW India’s quality control system failed to detect that engagement teams 
throughout PW India routinely relinquished control of the delivery and receipt of cash 
confirmations to their audit clients and rarely, if ever, questioned the integrity of the confirmation 
responses they received from the clients.  Despite annual quality reviews, PW India did not 
recognize this compliance failure until after January 2009. 
 
       5.       By failing to comply with PCAOB Standards, PW Bangalore issued audit reports 
in connection with the Satyam engagement that were not accurate and, as a result, the PW India 
Firms were a cause of Satyam’s issuing materially false and misleading financial statements and its 
violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rules 12b-20, 
13a-1 and 13a-16 thereunder.  The PW India Firms also violated Section 10A(a) of the Exchange 
Act by failing to conduct procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance of detecting illegal 
acts that would have a direct and material effect on the determination of financial statement  
amounts. 
 

                                                        
4
 References in Commission rules and staff guidance and in   the federal securities laws to GAAS or to specific 
standards under GAAS, as they related to issuers, should be understood to mean the standards of the PCAOB plus             
any applicable rules of the Commission.  See Release No s. 33-8422; 34-49708; FR-73 at http://www.sec.gov/rules/ 
interp/33-8422.htm. 
                                                    3
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                                                                                    
B. RESPONDENTS 
 
       6.       Lovelock & Lewes (“Lovelock”) is a public accounting firm organized as a 
partnership under the laws of the Republic of India, and headquartered in Kolkata, West Bengal, 
India. 
 
       7.       Price Waterhouse, Bangalore (“PW Bangalore”) is a public accounting firm  
organized as a partnership under the laws of the Republic of India, and headquartered in Bangalore, 
Karnataka, India.    
 
       8.       Price Waterhouse & Co., Bangalore (“PW Co. Bangalore”) is a public accounting 
firm organized as a partnership under the laws of the Republic of India, and headquartered in  
Bangalore, Karnataka, India.  
 
       9.       Price Waterhouse & Co., Calcutta (“PW Co. Calcutta”) is  a public accounting firm  
organized as a partnership under the laws of the Republic of India, and headquartered in Kolkata, 
West Bengal, India.  
 
       10.     Price Waterhouse, Calcutta (“PW Calcutta”) is a public accounting firm organized 
as a partnership under the laws of the Republic  of India, and headquartered in Kolkata, West  
Bengal, India. 
 
       11.     Lovelock, PW Bangalore, PW Co. Bangalore, PW Co. Calcutta, and PW Calcutta  
are member firms of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited, a United Kingdom-based 
private company. 5
                    Respondents are registered in the United States with the PCAOB and in India 
with the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”).  Section 102 of the Sarbanes-Oxley  
Act of 2002 (“SOX”) prohibits accounting firms that are not registered with the PCAOB from 
preparing or issuing audit reports  on United States public companies and from participating in such 
audits.  Section 106(a) of SOX further authorizes the PCAOB to require that non-US public 
accounting firms that do not issue such reports, but that play a substantial role in the preparation of 
the audit reports, register with the PCAOB. 
 
       12.     PW India, along with five other India-based PwC Network Firms,   6
                                                                                  operate as a 
domestic Indian network of related audit firms.   As such, these firms share common audit and other 
assurance and assurance risk management leadership and follow common audit and other assurance  
policies and procedures, including in the areas of audit and assurance risk management, training and 
supervision. 
 
                                                        
5
 Member firms of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (“PwC IL”), are collectively referred to herein as    
“PwC Network Firms.”   
6
 The five other India-based firms are registered with the ICAI but not with the PCAOB.  They do not perform audit                                    
work for SEC registrants.  
                                                    4
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                                                                                 
       13.     PW India and the five other India-based PwC Network Firms operate their audit  
practices under resource sharing arrangements that facilitate the provision of audit services as a 
network of related firms.  With respect to the PW India Firms, pursuant to these arrangements,  
Lovelock and PW Calcutta have  both partners and staff who perform audit procedures and provide 
staffing for their own audit engagements, as well as for engagements of the other PW India Firms.   
The partners of the remaining PW India Firms, PW Bangalore, PW Co. Bangalore, and PW Co. 
Calcutta, undertake audit engagements, oversee the audit work conducted by engagement personnel,  
and sign audit opinions.  PW India partners typically are affiliated with several firms within the 
domestic network of audit firms simultaneously.  During the relevant period, PW India and the 
other domestic India-based firms shared resources and settled inter-firm balances at the end of each 
fiscal year. 
 
       14.     PW India and the five other India-based PwC Network Firms operate in a manner 
that generally does not make any distinctions  among the individual firms in the network.  For  
example, the PW India Firms share office space and have identical telephone numbers.  In addition, 
the Respondents’ website makes no obvious distinction among the individual PwC Network Firms 
located in India. 
 
       15.     Satyam’s Forms 20-F during the relevant period list the company’s independent 
registered public accounting firm as “Price Waterhouse,” the name of PW Bangalore set forth in its  
partnership deed.  During the relevant period, the Satyam audit reports were signed by PW 
Bangalore engagement partners who were also partners at Lovelock.7
                                                                    Audit work on the Satyam  
engagement was performed predominately by partners and staff associated with these firms, 
although staff from PW Calcutta and partners of all five PW India firms billed time on the Satyam 
audits during the relevant period. 
 
C. ISSUER 
 
       16.     Satyam Computer Services Limited (“Satyam”) is a large information technology 
service company incorporated in India with its principal executive offices in Hyderabad.  Satyam’s  
equity shares trade on the Bombay Stock Exchange and the National Stock Exchange of India.  
Satyam also has 65 million American Depository Shares (“ADS”) representing approximately 11 
percent of the company’s equity shares.  At all relevant times, Satyam’s equity shares underlying 
the ADS were registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act, and Satyam’s ADS were  
listed on the NYSE.  On October 4, 2010, Satyam filed a Form 25 with the Commission 
voluntarily removing its securities from listing on the NYSE and from registration under Section 
12(b).  Satyam’s equity shares underlying the ADS are currently deemed registered pursuant to 
Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act, and Satyam’s ADS are currently quoted on the OTC Market 
under the symbol SAYCY.PK. 
 
                                                        
7 
 The lead engagement partner for the audit of Satyam’s fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 was also listed as a   
partner of PW Co. Calcutta . 
                                                   5
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                                                                                                 
       17.     Shortly after the fraud became public, the Government of India assumed control of 
the company.  In mid-February 2009, the Company Law Board of I   ndia authorized the company to  
select a strategic investor for Satyam.  As a result of the bidding process, Tech Mahindra Limited, 
an Indian information technology competitor, through its subsidiary Venturbay Consultants Private 
Limited, purchased approximately 42 percent of Satyam’s shares in India and became the new 
controlling shareholder of Satyam.  In June  2009, Satyam filed a press release announcing 
“Mahindra Satyam” as the company’s new “brand identity.”  The company continues to conduct 
business in the United States as Satyam and is registered as a corporation doing business in the  
State of New York  and as a foreign private issuer with the Commission under the name Satyam.  
 
D. FACTS        
 
       18.     In connection with fiscal years 2005 through 2008, as well as earlier years, Satyam  
engaged in certain practices relating to its revenue, income, cash, interest-bearing deposits, and 
accounts receivable that made its financial statements materially false and misleading.  PW India’s 
audits of Satyam’s financial statements for fiscal years 2005 through 2008 were deficient.  Among 
other things, PW India departed from applicable  PCAOB Standards by failing to maintain control of 
the confirmation process with respect to cash, interest bearing deposits, and accounts receivable 
balances.  As a result, PW India failed to uncover Satyam’s fraud an d, instead, issued unqualified 
audit opinions in connection with its audits of Satyam’s financial statements until its former 
Chairman admitted that the company had been engaged in a billion dollar financial fraud and 
Satyam publicly disclosed that admission in a Form 6-K.  As indicated herein, the failures PW India 
experienced on the Satyam audit were not limited to that engagement, but were indicative of a  
quality control failure throughout PW India. 
 
                                  Satyam’s Accounting Fraud  
 
       19.    Satyam falsified its reported revenue by manufacturing false invoices for services  
never provided and, in some cases, for customers that did not exist.  From at least 2005 through 
2008, Satyam’s former senior management instructed certain employees to generate thousands of 
false invoices and record them in the company’s invoice management  system.  The invoice 
management system exported the  fake invoices into Satyam’s financial system where the revenues 
were recorded in the company’s general ledger.  Based upon the fictitious invoices, Satyam 
materially overstated revenue and net income from at least fiscal year 2005 through the first two 
quarters of fiscal year 2009 by over $1 billion.   
        
       20.    To support the false revenue and income that Satyam was reporting in its financial 
statements, Satyam prepared materially false bank statements, from at least fiscal year 2005 through 
2008, reflecting materially false cash deposits in the company’s bank accounts at, among other 
places, the Bank of Baroda (“BOB”), which were recorded within the cash and cash equivalent 
balances in Satyam’s publicly-filed financial statements.  
        
       21.    To make it appear that Satyam was investing its false income during the relevant 
time period, Satyam’s former senior management manufactured scores of fa lse bank statements and 
                                                   6
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                                                                                                 
also materially falsified the company’s publicly filed financial statements with regard to the balance  
and fixed deposit receipts (hereinafter “interest bearing deposits”) and corresponding interest  
income in accounts held at HSBC, BNP Paribas, HDFC, Citibank, and ICICI. 
 
       22.     In Satyam’s 2005, 2006, 2007, and 2008 financial statements, the company reported, 
among other assets, balance sheet line items entitled (a) “cash and cash equivalents,” and (b) 
investments in bank deposits” (collectively, the “cash” line items).  During  these years, Satyam’s  
cash line items represented the largest asset on its reported balance sheet, making up 50% or more 
of Satyam’s total assets during the relevant period.  For example, in 2008, Satyam reported cash of 
$1.1 billion, constituting approximately 50 percent of total reported assets.  The vast majority of the 
cash purportedly was on deposit at BOB, HSBC, BNP Paribas, HDFC, Citibank, and ICICI.  
 
       23.     On January 7, 2009, Satyam submitted a Form 6-K with the Commission that 
included a letter prepared by the then-Chairman of Satyam, B. Ramalinga Raju (“Raju”), admitting 
that the company had been engaged in a billion dollar fraud.  According to Raju’s letter, as of  
September 30, 2008, Satyam’s balance sheet reflected over $1 billion in fictitious cash and bank 
balances when the actual amount was $66 million.  
 
       24.     On January 14, 2009, Satyam submitted a Form 6-K with the Commission 
indicating that “Price Waterhouse” had advised that all audit reports and opinions in relation to 
Satyam’s financial statements during the relevant period should no longer be relied upon. 
 
       25.     On February 21, 2009, Satyam submitted a Form 6-K with the Commission 
indicating that Satyam’s Board of Directors accepted the resignation of “Price Waterhouse” as 
Satyam’s independent auditor. 
 
       26.     The two PW India lead engagement partners for the Satyam audits during the 
relevant period are defendants, along with a significant number of former senior and mid-level 
executives of Satyam, including the former Chairman, the former Managing Director and Chief 
Executive Officer, and the former Chief Financial Officer, in a criminal trial in India arising out of  
the Satyam fraud.  The trial is underway.  The two PW India engagement partners have also been  
the subject of ongoing disciplinary matters in India before the ICAI and the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India involving their role in the Satyam audit.  The two PW India lead partners  
and the two PW India senior managers who were the engagement managers on the Satyam audits 
during the relevant period were relieved of all auditing responsibilities in January 2009.  The two 
engagement managers resigned in February 2010 and the lead engagement partner for the audits of 
Satyam’s fiscal years ended March 1999-2007 retired in March 2009.  The lead engagement  
partner for the audit of Satyam’s  fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 is on administrative leave from 
PW India pending the outcome of the various proceedings against him.  On March 16, 2010, the 
two former PW India engagement managers were barred by the PCAOB from being associated 
persons of a registered public accounting firm for their failure to comply with a demand requiring 
their testimony in a PCAOB-related investigation into the Satyam  audit engagements.  These PW 
India managers are also the subject of ongoing disciplinary proceedings before the ICAI. 
 
                                                   7
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

                                                                                                 
                    PW India’s Audits of Cash and Cash Equivalent Balances   
                  Were Not Performed in Accordance with PCAOB Standards  
                                  for Fiscal Years 2005-2008  
 
       27.     Respondents failed to identify the material overstatement of Satyam’s assets, in part, 
because the engagement team failed to carry out the confirmation processes and procedures related 
to cash and interest bearing deposits in accordance with PCAOB Standards -- and its own audit 
plan -- for fiscal years 2005-2008.  PCAOB Standards require, among other things, that auditors  
test the existence and valuation of reported cash and interest bearing deposit balances.  In order to 
test the cash and interest bearing deposit balances during the relevant period, the audit plans for 
each year during the relevant period called for the confirmation of Satyam’s major bank balances 
and interest bearing deposits with third parties.  The working papers for each year during the  
relevant period document that the engagement team confirmed cash balances and interest bearing 
deposits for all banks at which Satyam had “major” accounts. 
 
       28.     Respondents failed to make direct contact with either BOB, the New York branch 
that held Satyam’s purported largest bank account, or the five largest banks purportedly holding 
Satyam’s interest bearing deposits to confirm the cash and cash equivalent balances that Satyam  
reported in its financial statements.  Instead, and in violation of PCAOB Standards, the 
engagement team relied on the company’s senior management to mail out   confirmation requests to 
Satyam’s banks, and on the purported responses to those letters from the banks, including 
purported responses provided to the engagement team by Satyam management.  Respondents     
never attempted to contact the banks directly at any time during the audits.   
 
       29.     Respondents also failed to conduct appropriate inquiry after receiving 
confirmations directly from banks that were  potentially conflicting with those received from 
Satyam management.  During the fiscal year 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 audits, the Satyam  
engagement team received confirmations, in the requested format, directly from branches of certain 
banks that purportedly held Satyam’s largest interest bearing fixed deposit balances.  The 
engagement team also received confirmations from Satyam’s management that purported to 
confirm fixed deposit balances at a different branch of the same bank.  The confirmations received 
from Satyam management were not in the format requested by the engagement team.  The bank-
provided confirmation responses reflected significantly lesser cash balances than Satyam  
management represented to be held in fixed deposits at the same banks, and significantly lesser 
cash balances than what was reflected in the purported bank confirmations that Satyam provided to 
the engagement team.  The engagement team could have, but did not, contact the banks directly to 
determine the amounts that Satyam had on deposit with the banks.  Had the engagement team done  
so, such inquiry should have revealed that cash and cash equivalent balances reported in Satyam’s  
financial statements were significantly overstated.  The following chart provides several examples  
of these differences:  
 

                                                   8
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

                                                                                                     
          Period           Bank Confirmations PW                       Confirmations PW 
          Ending                          India Received Directly   India Received from 
                                          from Bank (in $ USD)          Satyam (in $ USD)  

        9/30/08 BNP Paribas              $1,860,280 $100,753,498 

        9/30/08 HSBC                     No balance identified        $172,000,153 

        6/30/08 BNP Paribas              $1,919,404 $109,014,675 

        3/31/08 Citibank                 $330,172                     $152,923,538 

        3/31/08 HDFC                     No balance identified        $175,952,024 

        3/31/07 BNP Paribas              $11,192,807 $108,584,687 

        3/31/06 BNP Pariba        s $13,082,509                       $96,830,036 

        3/31/06 HSBC                     No balance identified        $53,282,374 

 
       30.     Rather than contact the banks to obtain an explanation for the differences, the 
engagement team erroneously accepted both confirmations as genuine and purported to 
“corroborate” the interest bearing fixed deposit balances with fabricated fixed deposit receipts and 
other support supplied by Satyam.   
 
       31.     Respondents did not reconcile this potentially conflicting audit evidence during the  
fiscal years 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008.  After the fraud was revealed, members of the Satyam  
engagement team indicated that they had ceded control of the confirmation  process to the client 
and relied on Satyam’s representations, in large part, because they believed that Satyam’s former 
chairman and senior management were honest and that they did not suspect that Satyam was  
fabricating audit documents.  Members of the  Satyam engagement team conceded that, in 
hindsight, the confirmation process they employed for the Satyam audits was not in compliance 
with PCAOB Standards.  
 
       32.     During Satyam’s fiscal year 2008 audit, a partner from another PwC Network Firm      
outside of India (“The PwC Network Firm Partner”) alerted members of the Satyam engagement 
team that its cash confirmation procedures appeared substantially deficient.  Specifically, in May 
2008, in response to questions raised by the “Appendix K filing reviewer” of Satyam’s draft Form  
20-F,8
       PW India requested that the PwC Network Firm Partner review the electronic workpapers      
                                                        
8 
 Under Rule 3400T(b), Interim Quality Control Standards, audit firms must comply with portions of the  
Requirements of Membership of the AICPA SEC Practice Section (“SECPS”).  Audit firms associated with 
international firms are required to seek the adoption of       policies and procedures consistent with the objectives set 
                                                     9
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

                                                                                                     
for the 2008 Satyam audit.  In response to that request, the PwC Network Firm Partner provided 
the Satyam engagement team with a detailed set of comments, including remarks on the cash and 
interest bearing deposit confirmation workpapers.  In particular, the PwC Network Firm Partner 
informed the Satyam engagement team that their cash confirmation procedures appeared  
inadequate because the working papers indicated that “the confirmation was obtained either 
directly or from copies obtained from the client.  We can only take credit for confirms we send and 
receive directly.” 
 
       33.     Notwithstanding the above-described warnings it received from the PwC Network 
Firm Partner, the Satyam engagement team failed to take any corrective action to confirm 
Satyam’s cash and cash equivalent balances in a manner that complied with PCAOB Standards 
during the fiscal year 2008 audit.  Had direct confirmation of the BOB bank balances been 
performed in response to the PwC Network Firm  Partner’s comment, Satyam’s fraud could have 
been uncovered in the summer of 2008.   
 
       34.     Respondents failed to perform the 2005-2008 Satyam audits with respect to cash 
and cash equivalent balances in accordance with PCAOB Standards.  First, Respondents failed to 
maintain control over confirmation requests and responses by establishing direct communication 
between the intended recipient and the auditor to minimize the possibility that the results will be 
biased because of interception and alteration of the confirmation requests or responses, as required 
by PCAOB Standard AU § 330.28.  Second, Respondents failed to exercise appropriate 
professional skepticism throughout the confirmation process, as required by PCAOB Standard AU  
§ 330.15.  Third, Respondents failed to comply with PCAOB Standards AU § 333.02 and 326.01  
when it neglected to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to afford a reasonable basis to  
determine the accuracy and completeness of the cash and cash equivalent balances reported in the 
financial statements.  Instead, Respondents repeatedly substituted management representations for 
competent evidence, which also does not comply with PCAOB Standards AU § 333.02 and 
326.01. Fourth, Respondents failed to take appropriate action in response to warning signs 
regarding the sufficiency of the cash confirmation procedures and caused the issuance of 
inaccurate audit reports, which resulted from a failure to comply with the several PCAOB 
Standards, including AU § 230.07 (“[d]ue professional care requires the auditor to exercise 
professional skepticism.  Professional skepticism is an attitude that includes a questioning mind 
and a critical assessment of audit evidence.”) and AU § 230.09 (“[i]n exercising professional 
skepticism, the auditor should not be satisfied with less than persuasive evidence because of a 
belief that management is honest.”).9
                                       The failure to properly execute third-party confirmation 
procedures contributed to the fraud at Satyam going undetected for years.    

                                                                                                                                                                    

forth in the Requirements of Membership of the SECPS at Appendix K, SECPS Section 1000.45 (“Appendix K”).     
See SECPS Section 1000.08(n).  Those objectives include having policies and procedures for certain filings of SEC   
registrants which are the clients of foreign associated firms to be reviewed by persons knowledgeable in PCAOB                                          
standards.  
9 
 See also PCAOB Standards AU § 150.02 and AU § 230, which require due professional care to be exercised in the 
performance of the audit and preparation of the report.   
                                                    10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

                                                                                                  
 
                         Deficiencies in the Cash Confirmation Process 
 
                                 Occurred Throughout PW India
   
                                                 
       35.     From at least 2008 forward, the failures in the confirmation process on the Satyam 
audit were not limited to that engagement, but were indicative of a quality control failure 
throughout PW India.  In a large number of other audit engagements conducted by PW India, its  
auditors planned to test the existence and valuation of cash balances by performing direct  
confirmations, and then failed to control the confirmation process by relying on audit clients for 
confirmation requests and responses.  PW India’s quality control system failed to detect that, for 
several years, and on multiple audit engagements, audit personnel at PW India were not complying 
with PCAOB standards governing the cash confirmation process.   
        
       36.     PW India staff conceded that they routinely relinquished control of the delivery and 
receipt of cash confirmations entirely to their audit clients and rarely, if ever, questioned the 
integrity of the confirmation responses they received from the client by following up with the banks  
prior to January 2009.  Similarly, PW India partners, including a partner formerly responsible for 
audit risk and quality throughout  PW India, indicated that client involvement in the confirmation 
process during the relevant period was the norm because bankers rarely, if ever, responded directly  
to confirmation requests made by auditors. 
 
       37.     Despite annual quality reviews, PW India did not recognize the extensive nature of 
this quality control failure until after January 2009, when PW India conducted a firm-wide review  
of confirmation workpapers taken from completed and ongoing engagements for the current and 
prior fiscal year. 
        
                      PW India’s Audits of Accounts Receivable Balances
  
                  Were Not Performed in Accordance with PCAOB Standards 
 
                                   for Fiscal Years 2006-2008
  

       38.     During the relevant period, Satyam’s former senior management recorded fictitious 
receivables by exploiting weaknesses in the internal controls of the company’s accounts receivable 
system.  Specifically, the company’s invoicing system allowed for the manual entry of customer 
invoices via the intervention of a “super user,” acting outside the regular controls of the billing and 
invoicing process.  Satyam’s former senior management used this super user function to              create 
thousands of fake invoices totaling over $1 billion during the entirety of the fraud.   

       39.     For the 2006-2008 fiscal year audits, Respondents failed to carry out the audits of 
the accounts receivable balance in accordance with PCAOB Standards.  As with the cash 
confirmation process, the Satyam engagement team did not maintain control of the accounts 
receivable confirmations and did not perform adequate follow-up procedures on confirmations that 
were sent but not received from customers with purported accounts receivable balances recorded  
on Satyam’s 2006-2008 fiscal year end financial statements. 

                                                   11
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

                                                                                                  
       40.     For example, from the period March 31, 2006 through August 31, 2007, the Satyam  
engagement team prepared accounts receivable confirmation requests on five occasions but 
received few, if any, responses to those requests.  During the relevant period, Respondents made 
no attempt to follow up on those non-responses.  Further, as part of the 2007 fiscal year audit, the 
engagement team sent out confirmation requests to 22 customers with outstanding receivables 
balances on August 31, 2006, including seven that were later exposed as fictitious customers.  No 
customers responded to those requests.  Appropriate diligence and follow-up procedures could 
have exposed the true nature of these customers. 

       41.     In other periods, instead of employing confirmation procedures to verify accounts  
receivable balances, the Satyam engagement team purported to im plement “alternative procedures” 
to validate receivables through an attempt to verify their subsequent receipts.  The subsequent 
receipt totals were obtained from Satyam’s management and then divided by the total outstanding 
receivables as of the period end to arrive at a percentage of receivables that had been subsequently 
collected.  There was no other documented substantive analysis to go along with this calculation.  
The above-described alternative audit procedures performed during the 2006-2008 fiscal audit 
years did not provide adequate audit evidence to corroborate the existence of receivables because 
they were not designed to ensure that the subsequent receipts had any relationship to the actual 
outstanding receivables at the end of the respective fiscal year. 

       42.     Further, the engagement team was aware of factors that increased the potential for  
fraud at Satyam during at least the fiscal year 2007 audit, but failed to recognize the increased risk, 
and therefore did not alter its planning and execution of the Satyam audits to take these risks into 
account as required under PCAOB Standards.  In connection with the audit of  the company’s fiscal  
year ended March 31, 2007, PW India’s Systems and Process  Assurance (“SPA”) personnel tested  
Satyam’s Information Technology (“IT”) internal controls.  This testing revealed over 170 
deficiencies in those controls, including eight significant deficiencies identified by the SPA team.  
The nature of these deficiencies should have alerted the engagement team to a heightened risk with 
respect to receivables. 

       43.     In an area that called for increased audit vigilance, Respondents failed to develop an  
audit plan that addressed the increased risk of a material misstatement of the receivables balance.   
Instead, the 2007 and 2008 year-end audits excluded confirmation of the year-end receivables 
balances. 

       44.     Respondents failed to adequately plan and perform the 2006-2008 audits with  
respect to accounts receivable in accordance with relevant PCAOB Standards.  First, the 
engagement team ignored internal control deficiencies which should have alerted it to the 
heightened fraud risk with respect to receivables, as required by PCAOB Standards AU § 312.16 
(an auditor must consider the effect of an assessment of the risk of material misstatement due to 

                                                   12
 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

                                                                                                     
fraud on the overall audit strategy).10
                                      Second, the receivables audit plan failed to address an 
increased risk of a material misstatement of the receivables balance, as required by PCAOB 
Standard AU § 312.17 (higher risk may cause the auditor to expand or modify the extent or nature  
of procedures to obtain more persuasive evidence).  Third, the engagement team failed to follow up 
on confirmation requests that were not returned, which resulted in a failure to comply with several 
PCAOB Standards, including AU § 316.28 (describing instances in which audit procedures need to 
be changed to obtain evidence that is more  reliable or to obtain additional corroborative 
information, including from independent sources), §330.30 (describing follow-up confirmation 
request process),  and §330.32 (describing alternative procedures to be employed in the  
examination of accounts receivable, including the matching of subsequent cash receipts with the 
actual items being paid).  Fourth, Respondents did not obtain sufficient competent evidential 
matter to verify the existence of receivables, as required by PCAOB Standard AU § 326.01.   11 
                                                                                               

                              Failure to Issue Accurate Audit Reports  

       45.     PCAOB Standards require that the auditor’s report contain an opinion on the 
financial statements taken as a whole and contain a clear indication of the character of the auditor’s 
work.  PCAOB Standard AU § 508.04.  The auditor can determine that he or she is able to issue an 
audit report containing an unqualified opinion only if he has conducted his audit in accordance  
with PCAOB Standards and that the financial statements have been prepared in conformity with 
GAAP.  PCAOB Standard AU §§ 508.08, 508.14.       12 
                                                    

       46.     PW India acted unreasonably in rendering audit reports containing unqualified 
opinions for the fiscal year 2005-2008 publicly-filed financial  statements.  PW India issued audit 
reports on Satyam’s financial statements even though they should have known that Satyam’s audits  
had not been conducted in accordance with PCAOB Standards and that Satyam’s financial 
statements did not present fairly, in all material respects, Satyam’s financial position, operating 
results, and cash flows in conformity with GAAP. 

                    PW India Did Not Comply with PCAOB Auditing Standard No.3.  

       47.     PW India was notified by the PCAOB in November 20      07 that the PCAOB would 
perform an inspection of  PW India.  This inspection was to include a review of PW India’s 2007 
fiscal year audit of Satyam.  The audit opinion included in Satyam’s 2007 Form 20-F was dated 

                                                        
10 
  See  also PCAOB Standard AU § 110.02, which requires that an “auditor has the responsibility to plan and   
perform the audit to obtain  reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material 
misstatement, whether caused by error or fraud.”                   
11 
  See also PCAOB Standards AU § 150.02 and AU § 230, which require due professional care to be exercised in the 
performance of the audit and preparation of the report.   
12
  PCAOB Standard AU § 508.14  was in effect for reports issued from the beginning of the relevant period until   
November 15, 2008.  
                                                    13
 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

                                                                                                 
and released on April 27, 2007.  Satyam submitted its Form 20-F to the SEC on April 30, 2007.  
The PCAOB inspection began in February 2008.   

       48.     Under PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 3, Audit Documentation (“AS No. 3”), audit 
documentation may not be deleted after the document completion date (i.e, the date that the 
“complete and final set of audit documentation” has been assembled for retention, which must 
occur within 45 days after the audit report release date).  AS No. 3 ¶15.  AS No. 3 also requires 
that an auditor make certain written disclosures if the auditor adds or alters working papers after 
the documentation completion date.  In particular, AS No. 3 specifies, in relevant part, that any 
additions or alterations to audit documentation after the audit report release date “must indicate the 
date the information was added, the name of the person who prepared the additional 
documentation, and the reason for adding it.”  AS No. 3 ¶16. 

       49.     After the audit “documentation completion date,” but before the PCAOB inspection 
of the Satyam audit for fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, members of the Satyam engagement  
team created certain documents, and gathered other documents, none of which previously were in 
the 2007 Satyam audit workpapers.  The workpapers added by the Satyam engagement team     
included the management letter and debtor confirmation requests.  The added workpapers did not 
include any notations indicating that they were added or altered after the documentation 
completion date.  The added workpapers also neglected to provide the date the information was 
added, the name of the person who prepared the additional documentation, and the reason for  
adding it.  Accordingly, PW India failed to comply  with AS No.3 ¶¶ 15, 16. 

E.      VIOLATIONS  

                   Because of Its Failure to Comply With PCAOB Standards, 
 
              PW India Was a Cause of Satyam’s Violations of Sections 13(a) and
   
                13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Relevant Rules Thereunder
  

       50.     Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-16 thereunder require 
issuers with registered securities to file and furnish factually accurate annual and other reports.  
Rule 12b-20 of the Exchange Act requires that, in addition to the information expressly required 
to be included in such reports, the reports shall contain such further material information as may 
be necessary to ensure that the required statements are not misleading.  As a foreign private 
issuer, Satyam is required to file annual reports on Form 20-F pursuant to Rule 13a-1 under the 
Exchange Act and to furnish reports on Form 6-K pursuant to Rule 13a-16 under the Exchange 
Act.  The information required by Form 6-K is whatever information the registrant makes, or is 
required to make, public pursuant to the laws of the jurisdiction of its domicile or in which the 
registrant is incorporated or organized.  The obligation to furnish these periodic reports includes 
the obligation that they be true and correct in all material respects.  See, e.g., SEC v. IMC 
International, Inc., 384 F.Supp. 889, 893 (N.D. Texas), aff’d mem. 505 F.2d 733 (5th
                                                                                     Cir. 1974), 
cert. denied sub nom.  No showing of scienter is necessary to establish a violation of Section 
13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-16, and 12b-20 thereunder.   

                                                  14
 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

                                                                                                  
       51.     Under Section 21C of the Exchange Act, the Commission may “enter an order 
requiring such person, and any other person that is, was, or would be a cause of the violation, due 
to an act or omission the person knew or should have known would contribute to such violation, 
to cease and desist from committing or causing such violation and any future violation of the 
same provision, rule, or regulation.”  Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. § 78u-3.  Negligence is sufficient 
to establish liability for causing a primary violation that does not require scienter.  See KPMG 
Peat Marwick LLP, 74 SEC Docket 384, 421 (2001), recon. denied, 74 SEC Docket 1351 (Mar. 
8, 2001), pet. denied, 289 F.3d 109 (D.C. Cir. 2002), reh'g en banc denied, 2002 U.S. App. Lexis 
14543 (July 16, 2002). 

       52.     Satyam violated Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules  13a-1 and 13a-16 
thereunder by including in numerous of its periodic filings and submissions financial statements 
for the years 2005-2008 that were materially false and misleading.  For each of those years, PW  
India issued audit reports containing unqualified opinions stating that “Price Waterhouse” 
conducted an audit of the company’s annual financial statements in accordance with PCAOB 
Standards, that Satyam’s financial reporting was in conformity with GAAP, and that Satyam’s 
reporting results fairly represented the financial condition of the company.  PW India consented to 
the inclusion of these audit reports in Satyam’s Forms 20-F for fiscal years 2005 through 2008.  
However, PW India’s audit reports were inaccurate because PW India failed to conduct its audits in 
accordance with PCAOB Standards.  PW India’s failure to comply with PCAOB Standards was a        
cause of Satyam’s violations, including Satyam’s failure to disclose to investors that it was             
engaged in non-GAAP and other accounting actions that prevented Satyam’s reported financial 
results from fairly representing its financial  condition.   

       53.     In auditing Satyam’s accounts receivable and cash and cash equivalent balances, 
Respondents did not comply with PCAOB Standards by failing to exercise due professional care 
and skepticism, failing to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter and substituting 
management’s representations for those auditing procedures necessary to afford a reasonable basis  
for an opinion regarding the financial statements.  In fact, the engagement team never insisted on, 
nor obtained, direct third-party confirmations for Satyam’s largest cash account, nor did it perform 
sufficient audit procedures to determine whether Satyam’s accounts receivable and cash and cash 
equivalent balances were not materially misstated.  As a result, PW India was a cause of Satyam’s 
failure to file and furnish annual and other reports to the Commission that were complete and                                  
accurate in all material respects in violation of Section 13(a).  

       54.     Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires issuers of registered securities 
to make and keep books, records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly 
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the issuer.  Satyam violated Section 
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act by recording thousands of fictitious entries that resulted in the 
false reporting of over $1 billion in non-existent revenue and cash.  As described above, PW  
India failed to conduct its audits in accordance with PCAOB Standards, which allowed Satyam     
to utilize accounting devices that did not comply with GAAP.  Had it done so, PW India would 
have reasonably determined that Satyam failed to keep books and records that accurately 

                                                   15
 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

                                                                                                  
reflected transactions in violation of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act.  Accordingly, PW  
India’s actions were a cause of Satyam’s Section 13(b)(2)(A) violations.. 

                              Section 10A(a) of the Exchange Act  

       55.     Section 10A(a) of the Exchange Act requires each audit to include procedures 
designed to provide reasonable assurance of detecting illegal acts that would have a direct and 
material effect on the determination of financial statement amounts.  No showing of scienter is 
necessary to establish a violation of Section 10A.  SEC v. Solucorp Industries, Ltd., 197 F. Supp. 
2d 4 (S.D.N.Y. 2002). 

       56.     PW India violated Section 10A(a) of the Exchange Act by failing to conduct 
procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance of detecting illegal acts that would have a 
direct and material effect on the determination of financial statement amounts, particularly after 
PW India:  (1) failed to conduct the appropriate inquiry after receiving fixed deposit 
confirmations, in the requested format, directly from branches of certain banks that purportedly 
held Satyam’s largest interest bearing fixed deposit balances that were potentially conflicting 
with confirmations it received from Satyam management that did not conform to the format 
requested by the engagement team, a situation that should have alerted PW India to a heightened 
risk that Satyam’s reported deposit balances were materially overstated; and (2) discovered 
“significant deficiencies” in Satyam’s internal controls that should have caused PW India to take 
additional procedures to address the heightened risk of material misstatement of Satyam’s 
receivable balance during the 2007 fiscal year audit. 

                        Rule 102(e) and Section 4C of the Exchange Act  

       57.     Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Section 4C of the 
Exchange Act authorize the Commission to censure or deny, temporarily or permanently, the  
privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission to accountants who are found to have  
engaged in improper professional conduct.  Under Rule 102(e)(1)(iv), the term “improper 
professional conduct” means, in part, “repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting 
in a violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice 
before the Commission.”    

       58.     PW India caused Satyam to file and furnish materially inaccurate audit reports by 
representing that the audits were conducted in accordance with PCAOB Standards.  Based on their 
violations of applicable professional standards, PW India was a cause of Satyam issuing materially 
false financial statements.  This conduct supports an action against PW India under Rules 
102(e)(1)(ii) and 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) of the Rules of Practice.  

F. FINDINGS         

       59.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that PW India engaged in improper 
professional conduct in connection with the 2005-2008 Satyam audits pursuant to Rule  

                                                   16
 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

                                                                                                   
102(e)(1)(ii) and 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Section 4C of the  
Exchange Act.  Additionally, the  Commission finds that PW India violated Section 10A(a) of the 
Exchange Act and was a cause of Satyam’s violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the  
Exchange Act, and Rules 13a-1, 13a-16, and 12b-20 thereunder. 
 
G.      REMEDIAL ACTIONS  
    
       60.     After January 2009, but before entry of this Order, PW India has taken a series of 
remedial steps intended to enhance its audit quality controls in such areas as third-party 
confirmations, engagement training and staffing, engagement review, and risk management.  PW 
India has also engaged senior audit professionals from PwC Network Firms outside India to 
review completed and ongoing audit engagements to evaluate and assess PW India’s existing 
audit quality and to identify U.S.-related audit practice areas in need of improvement to be 
addressed by the undertakings set forth in this Order. 
 
       61.     In addition, PW India suspended its Satyam audit engagement partners from all 
work and removed from client service all senior audit professionals (i.e., managers and above) 
on the former Satyam audit team.  After January 2009, but before the entry of this Order, PW  
India replaced virtually all senior management responsible for audit matters (“Assurance 
Leadership Team”).  During this period, PW India also seconded several partners and other 
senior audit professionals from PwC Network Firms outside of India to add full-time audit 
infrastructure leadership and support throughout India. 
        
H.      UNDERTAKINGS       13 
                              
                                                      
   PW India undertakes the following: 

   1.   Acceptance of New SEC Issuer Audits.  From the date of this Order, PW India shall not 
accept any new SEC Issuer Audits prior to the Interim Certificate of Compliance Date (defined at 
Paragraph 11).  The term “SEC Issuer Audit(s)” is defined to mean an engagement to audit the 
consolidated financial statements filed with the Commission of an “Issuer” as that term is defined 
in Section 2(a)(7) of the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   Following the later of March 31, 2012 or  
the Interim Certificate of Compliance Date, PW India shall conduct any new SEC Issuer Audit 
pursuant to the Interim Conditions set forth in Paragraph 3 until the Final Certificate of  
Compliance Date  (defined at Paragraph 12).  Until the Final Certificate of Compliance Date, PW  
India agrees that the Lead Engagement Partner (“Lead Partner”) on any SEC Issuer Audit must be    
deemed not unacceptable to the Independent Monitor (defined at Paragraph 10) before PW India 
commences work on any SEC Issuer Audit.  
                                                        
13
  In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission further considered PW India’s representations that: (1) it had 
not accepted any new SEC Issuer Audits or SEC Issuer Referred Engagement Work since January 2009; and (2) it 
would voluntarily extend all relevant undertakings set forth in Section III.H to the five other India-based PwC              
Network Firms. 
                                                   17
 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

                                                                                                
   2.   Acceptance of SEC Issuer Referred Engagement Work   .  PW India shall not accept SEC 
Issuer Referred Engagement Work for a new client for a period of six months following the date of 
this Order.  The term “SEC Issuer Referred Engagement Work” is defined to mean instances in 
which PW India: (a) conducts a full scope audit and provides, or should provide, consistent with 
Applicable Professional Standards (defined at Paragraph 3.a.), an interoffice opinion for an SEC 
Issuer-affiliated entity in connection with the audit of the SEC Issuer’s consolidated financial 
statements filed with the Commission; or (b) provides audit work for an SEC Issuer-affiliated 
entity in connection with the audit of the SEC Issuer’s consolidated financial statements filed 
with the Commission that constitutes ten percent or more of the SEC Issuer’s consolidated 
assets, revenues, or expenses, as measured by the SEC Issuer’s most recent fiscal year financial 
statements filed with the Commission.  The          term SEC Issuer Referred Engagement Work  
excludes Indian statutory audits for SEC Issuer-affiliated clients, SAS 70 reports (or, after June 15, 
2011, SSAE No. 16 reports), and Shared Service Center Engagements (as defined in Paragraph 
14).  The term “new client” shall mean an SEC Issuer or a component of an SEC Issuer where PW  
India: (i) has not provided any audit or review services to the SEC Issuer or any of its components  
after January 1, 2010 through the date of this Order; and (ii) seeks to provide audit or review 
services to the SEC Issuer or any of its components after the date of this Order.  After a period of 
six months  following the date of this Order and until the Final Certificate of Compliance Date, PW  
India shall conduct SEC Issuer Referred Engagement Work for new clients pursuant to the Interim 
Conditions set forth in Paragraph 3.   

   3.   Interim Conditions.  From April 1, 2011 until the Final Certificate of Compliance Date, PW 
India shall conduct SEC Issuer Referred Engagement Work for current clients pursuant to the 
conditions set forth below (“Interim Conditions”).  Upon expiration of the relevant restricted 
periods specified in Paragraphs 1 and 2 above and until the Final Certificate of Compliance Date, 
PW India agrees that any new SEC Issuer Audit and any SEC Issuer Referred Engagement Work 
for a new client shall be subject to the following Interim Conditions:  

       a.	   Staffing and Selection of Lead Partners, Engagement Managers, and Quality Review 
           Partners.  PW India’s Assurance Leadership Team (“ALT”), a group which shall 
           include, among others, PW India’s Assurance Leader and Risk & Quality Leader, shall 
           select, as part of meeting their quality control requirements, the  Lead Partner, 
           Engagement Manager, and Quality Review Partner (“QRP”), if required, for each SEC 
           Issuer Audit and SEC Issuer Referred Engagement Work after taking into account his 
           or her respective performance on SEC Issuer Audits, SEC Issuer Referred Engagement  
           Work, and SEC Issuer-related client engagements that do not meet the thresholds 
           described in Paragraph 2 (collectively “SEC Issuer-Related Audit Engagements”) as  
           indicated by the results of the Real Time Review and Engagement Compliance Review  
           (“ECR”) programs (Paragraph 9 and 10) and the real time review program undertaken  
           by PW India during 2010.  PW India undertakes to engage the engagement partner 
           from the PwC Network Firm which is the lead auditor of the relevant SEC Issuer client  
           (“Global Engagement Partner”) to review the selection of any Lead Partner, 
           Engagement Manager, and QRP before the commencement of any SEC Issuer Referred 
           Engagement Work.  PW India shall provide the Global Engagement Partner with a 
                                                  18 
---------------------Page 19---------------------

                                                                                                  
           summary of the results of the engagement quality review conducted in October 2010, 
           any ECR conducted subsequent to the date of this Order, and any real time review 
           conducted during 2010 for each engagement on which the partner or manager served as  
           Lead Partner or Engagement Manager and shall provide the Global Engagement  
           Partner with access to any other relevant information upon request.  PW India agrees 
           that, in the event the Global Engagement  Partner informs PW India that he or she 
           objects to the selection of the Lead Partner, Engagement Manager or QRP to perform 
           such work, PW India will select an alternative candidate that meets the conditions 
           described in this Paragraph. 

           A QRP shall be assigned for all SEC Issuer Referred Engagement Work that meets the 
           10 percent of assets, revenues, or expenses threshold in Paragraph 2.  For SEC Issuer 
           Referred Engagement Work that does not meet the 10 percent of assets, revenues, or 
           expenses threshold, a QRP will be assigned, if requested by the Global Engagement 
           Partner.  The scope of the QRP’s role on such work shall be consistent with PCAOB 
           Auditing Standard No. 7, Engagement Quality Review.   

           Any PW India partner or manager who served as the Lead Partner or Engagement  
           Manager on any engagement that received an overall finding of unsatisfactory due to 
           departures from Applicable Professional Standards14
                                                               in connection with the 
           engagement quality review conducted in October 2010 or any ECR performed 
           subsequent to the date of this Order shall not be permitted to perform any SEC Issuer 
           Audit or SEC Issuer Referred Engagement  Work as a Lead Partner or Engagement 
           Manager for a period of two fiscal years following the date of an overall finding of 
           “unsatisfactory.”  Provided, however, that if PW India believes that an individual 
           partner or manager whose engagement received an “unsatisfactory” rating should be 
           exempt from the two-year practice restriction, then PW India, through its Assurance  
           Leader, may make a written submission to the Independent Monitor explaining the 
           reasons therefore and the Independent Monitor shall have the authority to exempt the  
           individual partner or manager if he or she believes it is appropriate to do so.  In no 
           event, however, shall a partner or manager who receives an overall rating of 
           “unsatisfactory” due to departures from Applicable Professional Standards in two 
           consecutive quality reviews be exempt from the two-year practice restriction. 

           If a partner has an engagement on which he or she served as Lead Partner assessed as  
           unsatisfactory due to departures from Applicable Professional Standards in an  
           engagement quality review or ECR, that partner shall not be permitted to serve as a 
           QRP on any SEC Issuer Audit  or SEC Referred Work Engagement for a period of two 
           fiscal years following the date of an overall finding of “unsatisfactory.”  

                                                        
14 
  The term “Applicable Professional Standards” means “professional standards” as defined in Section 2(a)(10) of   
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as amended.  
                                                  19
 
---------------------Page 20---------------------

                                                                                                   
           PW India shall comply with the conditions described in this Paragraph on a continuing 
           basis until the Final Certificate of Compliance Date. 

       b.	   Training.  In addition to the training-based undertakings set forth in Paragraph 5, PW  
           India agrees to require the Lead Partner, QRP, and Engagement Manager to complete at    
           least: (a) eight hours of ethics training on an annual basis; and (b) 40 hours of 
           specialized training in U.S. GAAP, PCAOB Standards,    15
                                                                    and International Financial 
           Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) before initiating any SEC Issuer Audit or SEC Issuer 
           Referred Engagement Work and at least 16 hours of such training in each subsequent 
           year that such work is performed.  Training programs completed   after June 2010 shall 
           be credited towards satisfying the 40 hour specialized training requirement of this 
           Paragraph.  The specialized training requirements of this Paragraph may also satisfy the 
           specialized training hours requirements of Paragraph 5(d).  All other PW India audit  
           staff on any SEC Issuer Audit or SEC Issuer Referred Engagement Work shall be  
           subject to the training undertakings set forth in Paragraph 5. 

       c.	   Consultations.  PW India undertakes to review  all consultations with PW India’s 
           National Office concerning Applicable Professional Standards required by PW India’s 
           consultation policy (“Required Consultations”) involving any SEC Issuer Referred 
           Engagement Work with the Global Engagement Partner.   

           Before accepting any SEC Issuer Audit, PW India undertakes to develop a process for 
           review of all Required Consultations by an auditor from a PwC Network Firm outside  
           of India.  Such process must be reviewed and deemed acceptable by the Independent 
           Monitor. 

           PW India further undertakes to resolve all Required Consultations in a manner 
           consistent with PW India policies and procedures prior to the issuance of any opinion, 
           report, or engagement completion document by PW India.  

       d.	   Pre-opinion Reviews.  PW India undertakes, prior to the issuance of any opinion, 
           report, or engagement completion document by PW India, to: (i) engage the Global 
           Engagement Partner, or his or her partner or manager designee, to conduct a review of 
           any PW India SEC Issuer Referred Engagement Work; and (ii) conduct a Real Time 
           Review (Paragraph 9) of all SEC Issuer Audits. 

   4. Ongoing Cooperation.  PW India (including its partners   , principals, officers, agents and 
employees) shall cooperate fully with the Commission with respect to this action and any related 
                                                        
15 
  References in Commission rules and staff guidance and in  the federal securities laws to GAAS or to specific 
standards under GAAS, as they relate to issuers, should be understood to mean the standards of the PCAOB plus any                    
applicable rules of the Commission.  See Release Nos. 33-8422; 34-49708; FR-73 at http://www.sec.gov/rules/interp  
/33-8422.htm. 
                                                    20
 
---------------------Page 21---------------------

                                                                                                   
judicial or administrative proceeding or investigation commenced by the Commission or to which 
the Commission is a party and subject to compliance with applicable law.  PW India agrees that 
such cooperation shall include, but is not limited to:   

       a. 	 Production of Information – at the Commission’s request, upon reasonable notice, and 
           without subpoena, PW India (including its partners, principals, officers, agents and 
           employees) shall truthfully and completely disclose all information requested by SEC 
           staff in connection with the Commission’s investigation, litigation or other proceedings, 
           except with respect to information related to clients other than Satyam, which 
           information shall be produced in response to subpoena or other appropriate legal 
           process; 

       b. 	 Production of Documents      -- at the Commission's request, upon reasonable notice, and 
           without subpoena, PW India (including its partners, principals, officers, agents and 
           employees) shall provide any document, record, or other tangible evidence requested             
           by SEC staff in connection with the Commission’s investigation, litigation or other 
           proceedings, except with respect to documents related to clients other than Satyam, 
           which documents shall be provided in response to subpoena or other appropriate legal  
           process; and 

       c.	   Production of Cooperative Personnel – at the Commission's request, upon reasonable 
           notice, and without subpoena, PW India (including its partners, principals, officers, 
           agents and employees) shall use its best efforts to secure the attendance and truthful 
           statements or testimony of any PW India partner, principal, officer, agent, or 
           employee, excluding any such person who is a party to litigation with the  
           Commission, at any meeting, interview, testimony, deposition, trial, or other legal 
           proceeding.  

   The foregoing obligations are subject to  PW India’s reservation of rights:    

               (i)   to claim that documents or information requested is subject to attorney-client 
                  privilege or attorney-work-product protection; and  

               (ii)  to seek entry of a confidentiality order as to (aa) sensitive business documents or 
                  information, (bb) sensitive personnel documents or information, or (cc) 
                  confidential information pertaining to clients other than Satyam.  

       PW India further agrees that, with respect to this action and any related judicial or 
   administrative proceeding or investigation commenced by the Commission or to which the 
   Commission is a party, it will:  (i) accept service by email, mail or facsimile transmission of 
   notices, requests, or subpoenas issued by the Commission for documents or testimony at 
   depositions, hearings, or trials, or in connection with any related investigation by the  
   Commission staff (“Commission Service”); (ii) appoint PW India’s undersigned attorney as 
   agent to receive Commission Service; (iii) with respect to Commission Service, waive the 
                                                   21
 
---------------------Page 22---------------------

                                                                                                  
   territorial limits upon service contained in Rule  45 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and 
   any applicable local rules, provided that the party requesting the testimony reimburses PW 
   India’s travel, lodging, and subsistence expenses at the then-prevailing U.S. Government per 
   diem rates; and (iv) consent to personal jurisdiction over PW India in any United States District 
   Court for purposes of enforcing any Commission Service. 

   5.  Training and Professional Development.  PW India shall evaluate its existing professional 
development policy and shall make such revisions deemed necessary in order to adopt, implement, 
and enforce written policies and procedures designed to provide its audit professionals with 
reasonable training and education to minimize the risk of future violations of Applicable  
Professional Standards and United States federal securities laws and regulations.  PW India agrees 
that such training and education shall include subjects relevant to  the audits of SEC Issuer-Related 
Audit Engagements.  To that end, PW India shall require that all audit professionals complete a  
training curriculum in the areas of traditional core audit and accounting, Applicable Professional  
Standards, professional skepticism, behavioral change management, technical audit competence, 
ethics standards, electronic and hard-copy audit documentation standards (including, as they relate 
to PCAOB inspections), acceptable and appropriate third-party confirmation procedures, and other                                                                           
relevant technical audit training. 

       a. Training Programs  .  Prior to March 31, 2011 and until the Final Certificate of  
           Compliance Date, PW India agrees and undertakes to provide annually, two-week 
           training programs covering the above-referenced audit topics as well as training and 
           presentation skills to select PW India audit professionals who thereafter will lead the 
           training of other PW India audit professionals.  After March 31, 2011, only PW India 
           audit professionals who have successfully completed a two-week training program will 
           be permitted to lead training of other PW India audit professionals. 

       b. 	 Mandatory Annual Training.  Prior to December 31, 2011 and until the Final Certificate 
           of Compliance Date, PW India agrees and undertakes to require that all audit 
           professionals complete an annual three-day program that includes training on the  
           following topics: (i) audit basics; (ii) new audit and accounting standards; (iii) 
           emerging issues in the profession; (iv) specific audit and accounting challenges 
           identified in prior years’ PW India audits; and (v) the role of the engagement quality 
           reviewer. 

       c. 	 Professional Skepticism Training.  Prior to December 31, 2011, PW India agrees and 
           undertakes to require that all audit professionals complete an eight-hour program that 
           covers acceptable and appropriate professional skepticism and fraud detection.  The  
           course will be offered annually thereafter to new hires, through the Final Certificate of 
           Compliance Date. 

       d. Specialized Training .  In addition to the training and education described in Sections 
           5.b. and 5.c., all PW India audit professionals   must complete successfully the following 
           core audit curriculum and specialized training before they commence audit work for 
                                                   22 
---------------------Page 23---------------------

                                                                                                 
           any SEC Issuer Audit or SEC Issuer Referred Engagement Work for financial 
           statements after March 31, 2011:  

           (i)   Minimum of 24 Hours of Audit-Related Training.  The audit-related training 
              requirement shall address the following topics: (1) assessing risks of material  
              misstatements and developing responsive audit plans; (2) determining and 
              documenting appropriate sampling methods and sample sizes, selecting samples,  
              and evaluating and documenting results; (3) audit documentation; (4) obtaining and 
              evaluating sufficient competent evidential matter; (5) acceptable and appropriate 
              third-party confirmation procedures; (6) professional skepticism and corroboration 
              of management’s representations; (7) technical audit training; and (8) fraud 
              detection.  Training courses completed after June 2010 shall be credited towards  
              satisfying the specialized audit training requirements of this Paragraph. 

           (ii)  Minimum of 12 Hours of Specialized Training and Examination.  Of the 24 hours  
              of required audit-related training described above, a minimum of 12 hours shall 
              involve live training taught by senior audit professionals from PwC Network Firms 
              outside India, including those who have been seconded to PW India, who are 
              experienced in auditing SEC Issuers and shall cover U.S. GAAP and PCAOB 
              Standards.  The live training shall be followed by an examination of the topics 
              covered.  PW India audit professionals must complete a minimum of 6 hours of 
              such live training before they commence audit work for any SEC Issuer Audit or 
              SEC Issuer Referred Engagement Work in each subsequent year.  

       e. 	 Additional Training Programs.  PW India agrees to consult with the Independent 
           Monitor in designing its training and education program, and to submit to the 
           Independent Monitor a detailed proposal within 60 days after retention of the  
           Independent Monitor that describes the content and implementation of the training and 
           education program.  PW India undertakes and agrees to provide such additional training 
           and workshops for its audit professionals on topics that include, but are not limited to: 
           IFRS training; additional workpaper documentation standards; behavioral instruction; 
           audit planning; PW India audit partner and manager supervisory training; audit quality 
           training for all PW India audit partners; and other training deemed necessary to rectify 
           deficiencies identified during the Quality Control Management Review and 
           Engagement Compliance Review programs (described in Paragraph 9).  The 
           Independent Monitor shall review PW India’s proposal describing the content and 
           implementation of the training and education program; such program must be deemed  
           not unacceptable to the Independent Monitor.   

   6.  Ethical Code of Conduct and Associated Training.  PW India has represented that it has a 
Code of Ethical Business Conduct (the “Ethics Code”) that defines standards of behavior for PW  
India audit professionals.  PW India undertakes to:  (a) adopt procedures designed to ensure that 
the Ethics Code is disseminated to PW India audit professionals; (b) conduct appropriate ethics 
training; (c) review the Ethics Code on a regular basis and update it as needed; (d) adopt an 
                                                  23
 
---------------------Page 24---------------------

                                                                                                 
appropriate system of penalties to discourage and punish any violations of the Ethics Code; and (e) 
adopt procedures designed to verify, on a regular basis, compliance with the Ethics Code. In 
addition, PW India shall provide annual ethics training to PW India audit professionals deemed 
most likely to perform SEC Issuer-Related Audit Engagements. 

   7. 	 Undertakings Concerning Staffing   

       a. 	 Audit Infrastructure Support.  PW India undertakes to increase the size and improve the 
           expertise of its audit support personnel by adding full-time or full-time equivalent 
           senior professionals (i.e., managers and above) trained in and knowledgeable about 
           U.S. GAAP and PCAOB Standards from w      ithin PW India and from PwC Network 
           Firms outside India in all areas of audit support.  

       b. Engagement Staffing  .  PW India shall undertake to alter the structure of its engagement  
           teams on SEC Issuer-Related Audit Engagements.  Such measures shall include: (i) 
           policies and procedures designed to address the detection and resolution of potential 
           issues concerning the quality of audit work performed by senior audit professionals; (ii) 
           policies and procedures designed to ensure the QRP’s role is in compliance with 
           PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 7; (iii) greater emphasis on partner and manager time 
           and attention; (iv) regular coaching of junior audit professionals by experienced senior 
           audit professionals; and (v) as indicated below, recruitment of client service partners  
           and other senior audit professionals from PwC Network Firms outside India to increase 
           the size and improve the expertise of PW India’s audit personnel.  

       c. Secondment.  PW India undertakes to   increase the number of senior audit professionals  
           seconded from PwC Network Firms outside India that are trained in and knowledgeable 
           about U.S. GAAP and PCAOB Standards who will, among other responsibilities, be  
           involved in the training of PW India audit professionals most likely to perform SEC 
           Issuer-Related Audit Engagements.  PW India also shall initiate an audit engagement 
           exchange program for junior audit professionals to and from PW India with a 
           particularized focus on the performance of integrated audit procedures on the financial  
           statements of clients affiliated with an SEC Issuer.  

   8.  Undertakings Concerning Audit Quality Management System.  Prior to December 31, 
2011, PW India shall revise as may be necessary, and then engage in steps to implement and 
enforce, such policies and procedures so as to provide reasonable assurance that PW India will 
comply with its obligations under professional, regulatory and firm requirements with respect to 
SEC Issuer-Related Audit Engagements.  To that end, PW India agrees and undertakes to provide 
to the Independent Monitor for review and recommendation, its policies and procedures, including 
evidence of their implementation, concerning the following:  

       a. Completion of Planning   Prior to the Commencement of Audit Fieldwork.  Such 
           policies and procedures shall provide reasonable assurance that, prior to the  
           commencement of any significant audit procedures:  (i)  workpapers identify all  
                                                  24 
---------------------Page 25---------------------

                                                                                                       
           significant risks requiring additional testing; (ii) workpapers identify all significant  
           accounts and disclosures and their relevant assertions; (iii) workpapers document the  
           risks of material misstatements, and that the planned nature, timing, and extent of 
           testing are finalized and reviewed and approved by the Lead Partner, and, when  
           appropriate, the QRP; and (iv) workpapers ar   e tailored to address identified risks of  
           material misstatement.  

       b. Third-Party Confirmations    .  Such policies and procedures shall be designed to provide 
           reasonable assurance that all audit personnel perform third-party confirmation 
           procedures in compliance with PCAOB Standards.  

       c. Consultations .  Such policies and procedures shall  set forth consultation procedures and 
           documentation requirements regarding procedures for external review of PW India 
           National Office Required Consultations, as well as for the resolution of such  
           consultations. 

       d. Documentation    .  Such policies and procedures shall be designed to provide 
           reasonable assurance that PW India’s SEC Issuer-Related Audit Engagements comply 
           with Auditing Standard No. 3, Audit Documentation.  Such procedures shall 
           emphasize that documentation must be prepared in sufficient detail for an     
           experienced auditor, without prior knowledge of the engagement, to be able to 
           reperform the work and require that any additions made after the documentation 
           date 16
                  must identify the date the information was added, the name of the person who 
           prepared the additional documentation, and the reason for adding it.  Additionally, 
           PW India shall adopt a policy making it mandatory that a Lead Partner on an SEC 
           Issuer-Related Audit  Engagement review each audit area designated by the 
           engagement team as having a significant risk of material misstatement (whether due 
           to fraud or error) for compliance with both PCAOB Standards and related rules and 
           firm policies and procedures. 

       e. 	 Detection and Reporting of Illegal Client Activity (“Section 10A Compliance”)      . 
           Such policies and procedures shall be designed to provide reasonable assurance that 
           PW India complies with Section 10A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as 
           amended, including without limitation, for each audit subject to Section 10A, 
           procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance of detecting illegal acts that 
           would have a direct and material effect on the determination of financial statement 

                                                        
16 
  PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 3, Paragraph 15, states, “A complete and final set of audit documentation should                   
be assembled for retention as of a date not more than 45 days after the report release date (documentation   
completion date). If a report is not issued in connection with an engagement, then the documentation completion                         
date should not be more than 45 days from the date that                       fieldwork was substantially completed. If the auditor was  
unable to complete the engagement, then the documentation completion date should not be more than 45 days from                             
the date the engagement ceased.”  
                                                     25
 
---------------------Page 26---------------------

                                                                                               
          amounts, and to comply with all requirements under the standards of the Commission, 
          the PCAOB, and Section 10A to evaluate and report suspected illegal acts.  

       f.	   Engagement Quality Control.  Such policies and procedures shall be designed to 
          provide reasonable assurance that PW India complies with the PCAOB’s Auditing 
          Standard No. 7, Engagement Quality Review.  

       g. Audit Opinions .  Such policies and procedures shall be designed to provide 
          reasonable assurance that the firm signing the audit report or opinion for an SEC 
          Issuer-Related Audit Engagement shall uniquely identify itself by, at a minimum, its 
          PCAOB-registered name, and the location of the registered office.  

   9. 	 Audit Quality Environment   

       a. 	 Real Time Reviews.  From the date of this Order through at least the Interim Certificate 
          of Compliance Date, PW India shall engage senior audit professionals from PwC 
          Network Firms outside India with experience in both U.S. GAAP and PCAOB 
          Standards to lead pre-opinion reviews of certain SEC Issuer-Related Audit  
          Engagements (“Real Time Reviews”).   All SEC Issuer  Audits and a sample of other 
          SEC Issuer-Related Audit Engagements, including at least one other SEC Issuer-
          Related Audit Engagement for each partner serving as Lead Partner on such an 
          engagement, shall be subject to a Real Time Review each year.  These reviews shall be  
          designed to identify areas for improvement and to provide support to PW India audit  
          engagement teams working on SEC Issuer-Related Audit Engagements.  SEC Issuer 
          Referred Engagement Work is subject to the pre-opinion reviews described in 
          Paragraph 3(d) and shall be excluded from the Real Time Reviews.   

       b. 	 Engagement Compliance Review.  PW India shall engage senior audit professionals 
          from PwC Network Firms outside India with experience in both U.S. GAAP and 
          PCAOB Standards to review selected, completed PW India SEC Issuer-Related Audit 
          Engagement workpapers as part of the ECR program in order to assess PW India’s 
          compliance with Applicable Professional Standards.  The Independent Team Leader  
          (“ITL”) will select the engagements for review, which selection shall be part of the 
          ECR planning and scope subject to review and recommendation by the Independent 
          Monitor.   As part of their engagement by PW India, these senior audit professionals 
          shall develop an engagement quality review program designed to measure and assess 
          compliance with Applicable Professional Standards and PW India partner performance 
          on SEC Issuer-Related Audit Engagements through annual post-opi                       nion evaluations of 
          selected SEC Issuer-Related Audit Engagements.  The ECR program will also  identify 
          remedial needs on an ongoing basis.  As described further in Paragraph 10, the planning 
          and scope of the ECR program shall incorporate recommendations made by the 
          Independent Monitor.  The ECR program shall be overseen by an ITL experienced in 
          U.S GAAP and PCAOB Standards and will continue on an annual basis until the Final 

                                                 26
 
---------------------Page 27---------------------

                                                                                                     
           Certificate of Compliance Date.  All SEC Issuer Audits and SEC Issuer Referred 
           Engagement Work shall be included as part of the annual ECR.   

       c. Quality Control   Management Review.  PW India shall engage senior audit 
           professionals from PwC Network Firms outside India experienced in PCAOB 
           Standards to devise and implement a quality control review program to measure and 
           assess whether, and to what extent, PW India has in place systems, policies, and 
           procedures to provide reasonable assurance that its audit personnel comply with 
           applicable professional standards and PW India’s standards of quality as defined by 
           PCAOB Quality Control Standards     17
                                                 when performing work on SEC Issuer-Related 
           Audit Engagements (herein referred to as “Quality Control Management Review or 
           “QCMR”).   18
                          As described further in Paragraph 10, PW India’s QCMR program shall 
           include an annual review of completed audit work measured against a series of key 
           performance indicators that shall be developed, assessed, and updated on an ongoing 
           basis.  The planning and scope of the QCMR shall be overseen by the ITL and shall 
           incorporate recommendations made by the Independent Monitor.  The QCMR program  
           shall continue on an annual basis until  the Final Certificate of Compliance Date. 

   10. Undertakings Related to Reporting Requirements and the Role of the Independent Monitor  

       a. 	 Independent Monitor Selection and Retention.  PW India shall retain and pay for an 
           independent third-party not unacceptable to PCAOB staff and Commission staff who 
           has experience with public company reporting in the United States and is 
           knowledgeable in Applicable Professional Standards ("Independent Monitor") to 
           review PW India’s compliance with the undertakings set forth in this Order.  Within 
           60 days after the entry of this Order, PW India shall submit to PCAOB staff and 
           Commission staff a proposal setting forth the identity, qualifications, and proposed 
           terms of retention of the Independent Monitor.  PW India may not retain as the   
           Independent Monitor any individual or entity that has provided legal, auditing, or other 
           services to, or has had any affiliation with, Satyam, PwC IL, or any PwC Network Firm 
           during the prior two years.    
        
           PW India agrees that its engagement agreement with the Independent Monitor shall 
           require the Independent Monitor to agree that, for the period of engagement and for a 
                                                        
17 
  References to “PCAOB Quality Control Standards” throughout this Order mean, collectively, QC Sec. 20, System  
of Quality Control for a CPA Firm's Accounting and Auditing Practice;                      QC Sec. 30, Monitoring a CPA Firm's 
Accounting and Auditing Practice                ; QC Sec. 40, The Personnel Management Element of a Firm's System of Quality 
Control-Competencies Required by a Practitioner-in-Charge of an Attest Engagement                             ; all amendments thereto, and 
any subsequently enacted related standards of the PCAOB.  
18 
  Staff recognizes that, subject to review and recommendation of the Independent Monitor, PW India also may                           
develop procedures and measurements designed to review and evaluate the firm’s quality control compliance with   
International Standard on Quality Control 1, which PW   India represents may prove relevant in determining PW                           
India’s overall quality control environment. 
                                                     27
 
---------------------Page 28---------------------

                                                                                                 
           period of two years from completion of the engagement, the Independent Monitor shall 
           not enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing, or other 
           professional relationship with Satyam, PwC IL, or any PwC Network Firm, or any of 
           their present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their 
           capacity as such, and shall require that any firm with which the Independent Monitor is  
           affiliated or of which the Independent Monitor is a member, or any person engaged to 
           assist the Independent Monitor in performance of the Independent Monitor's duties  
           under this Order not, without prior written consent of the PCAOB staff and 
           Commission staff, enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing, or 
           other professional relationship with Satyam, PwC IL, or a PwC Network Firm, or any 
           of their present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in 
           their capacity as such for the period of the engagement and for a period of two years 
           after the engagement. 
            
           The term of the Independent Monitor shall expire upon the Final Certificate of 
           Compliance Date.  PW India shall not have the authority to terminate the Independent 
           Monitor before the Final Certificate of  Compliance Date without the prior written 
           approval of the PCAOB staff and the Commission staff. 
    
       b. 	 Role and Responsibilities Overview.  As set forth in this Order, the Independent 
           Monitor’s roles and responsibilities shall include: (i) pre-appointment review of new 
           members of PW India’s Assurance Leadership Team and Lead      Partners on SEC Issuer 
           Audits – such individuals shall not be unacceptable to the Independent Monitor; (ii) 
           approving the appointment of the ITL; (iii) reviewing and recommending revisions to  
           the audit Quality Management System policies and procedures of PW India; (iv) 
           reviewing and recommending revisions to PW India’s ECR and QCMR programs and 
           compliance work plans; (v) reporting upon PW India’s progress after review and 
           evaluation of PW India’s semi-annual and annual reports set forth herein; (vi) assessing 
           and recommending remedial steps deemed necessary to correct any deficiencies 
           identified in the semi-annual and annual reports; (vii) preparing an annual written 
           report concerning PW India’s progress in implementing the undertakings; (viii) making 
           findings as set forth in Paragraphs 11 and 12; and (ix) taking such reasonable steps as, 
           in his or her view, may be necessary to fulfill his or her obligations set forth in this 
           Order.  
 
       c. Monitoring Complia   nce with Undertakings.  Within 60 days after retention of an 
           Independent Monitor, PW India shall submit to the Independent Monitor a work plan 
           that describes the manner in which PW India intends to set forth quantifiable goals in 
           which it may measure its ongoing implementation of, and compliance with, the 
           undertakings set forth in this Order.  PW India undertakes to permit the Independent 
           Monitor 30 days to make recommendations to its work plan and agrees to make a 
           good faith effort to address and incorporate all such recommendations.  PW India 
           shall work cooperatively with the Independent Monitor to resolve any disagreements 
           to the satisfaction of the Independent Monitor.  If a matter that the Independent 
                                                  28 
---------------------Page 29---------------------

                                                                                                
          Monitor believes is within his or her responsibility cannot be resolved, at the request of 
          the Independent Monitor, PW India shall promptly provide written notice to the 
          Independent Monitor and the PCAOB staff and Commission staff.  Any disputes 
          between PW India and the Independent Monitor  with respect to the work plan shall be  
          decided by the PCAOB staff and the Commission staff, and PW India shall abide by 
          their decision.  
 
          For the period from the effective date of this Order to the Final Certificate of  
          Compliance Date, PW India agrees and undertakes periodically, at no less than six-
          month intervals, to provide a written report to the Independent Monitor regarding PW  
          India’s progress regarding the implementation of, and compliance with, the 
          undertakings set forth in this Order.  On an annual basis, PW India shall provide the 
          Independent Monitor with a written report that explains the circumstances  
          surrounding any failure to meet specific quantifiable goals set forth in the work plan 
          (as well as the specific audit involved, if any) and shall provide a detailed description 
          of what steps, if any, PW India has taken and shall take to remedy any such failure.  
          PW India’s follow-up reviews shall incorporate comments provided by the 
          Independent Monitor on PW India’s prior reviews and reports.  As part of PW India’s 
          compliance with the undertakings set forth in this Order, the Independent Monitor 
          shall also assess and report annually to PCAOB staff and Commission staff whether 
          PW India is complying with the undertaking regarding SEC Issuer Audits and SEC 
          Issuer Referred Engagement Work (Paragraphs 2 and 3). 
 
       d. 	 Monitoring Compliance with PW India’s Quality Control Management Review and 
          Engagement Compliance Review.  Within 60 days after retention of an Independent   
          Monitor, PW India undertakes to engage the ITL to submit  to the Independent Monitor 
          the QCMR and ECR proposed plans.  
        
          PW India agrees and undertakes that, until the Final Certificate of Compliance Date, 
          the ITL and the two individuals with direct responsibility for the QCMR and ECR (the 
          “Review Team Leaders”) shall be senior audit professionals from a PwC Network Firm  
          outside India with experience in U.S. GAAP and PCAOB Standards that have not 
          participated in any quality review of PW India prior to September 2010.  The ITL must  
          be approved by the Independent Monitor and deemed not unacceptable to both PCAOB 
          staff and Commission staff.  
           
          PW India undertakes to engage the ITL to permit the Independent Monitor 60 days to 
          make recommendations to its QCMR and ECR proposed plans and engage the ITL to 
          make a good faith effort to incorporate all such recommendations.  PW India shall 
          engage the ITL to work cooperatively with the Independent Monitor to resolve any 
          disagreements to the satisfaction of the Independent Monitor.  If the matter cannot be        
          resolved, at the request of the Independent Monitor, PW India, through the ITL, shall 
          promptly provide written notice to the Independent Monitor and the PCAOB staff and 
          Commission staff.  Any disputes between PW India or the ITL and the Independent 
                                                  29
 
---------------------Page 30---------------------

                                                                                                  
           Monitor with respect to the QCMR and ECR proposed plans shall be decided by the  
           PCAOB staff and the Commission staff, and their decision shall be final. 
 
           (i)   Quality Control Management Review Reports.  For the period from the effective 
           date of this Order to the Final Certificate of Compliance Date, PW India agrees and  
           undertakes to provide, through the ITL, an annual written report to the Independent 
           Monitor that assesses – and provides documented and supportable findings – as to 
           whether, and to what extent, there is reasonable assurance that PW India’s quality 
           controls with respect to SEC Issuer-Related Audit Engagements are in compliance with   
           PCAOB Quality Control Standards.   PW India shall undertake follow-up reviews each 
           year until the Final Certificate of Compliance Date, incorporating comments provided 
           by the Independent Monitor on PW India’s prior reviews and reports, to further 
           monitor and assess PW India’s quality controls.   

           (ii)  Engagement Compliance Review Reports.  For the period from the effective date 
           of this Order to the Final Certificate of Compliance Date, PW India agrees and  
           undertakes to provide, through the ITL, an annual written report to the Independent 
           Monitor that assesses and provides documented and supportable findings as to 
           whether, and to what extent, PW India’ s audits of SEC Issuer-Related Audit 
           Engagements are compliant with Applicable Professional Standards.  19 
                                                                                  Such  
           assessments and findings shall include, but  not be limited to, documents sufficient to 
           support the results developed from all engagement reviews from which the report is 
           based.  PW India shall undertake follow-up reviews each year until the Final   
           Certificate of Compliance Date, incorporating comments provided by the Independent 
           Monitor on PW India’s prior reviews and reports, to further monitor and assess PW  
           India’s engagement quality.  

           (iii) Independent Monitor Annual Report.  Within 90 days of receiving the ECR or 
           QCMR report, whichever is later, and for the period from the effective date of this 
           Order to the Final Certificate Date, the Independent Monitor shall prepare an annual 
           report (“IM Report”) that assesses whether the QCMRs and ECRs were conducted 
           according to reasonable procedures and indicates whether the Independent Monitor 
           supports the findings and conclusions set forth in the QCMR and ECR reports.  The  
           Independent Monitor may extend the time  period for the IM Report for up to thirty 
           calendar days upon prior written notice to PW India, PCAOB staff, Commission staff,  
           and the ITL.  Within 30 days of receiving the IM Report, PW India may prepare a 
           written response to the IM Report.   If the Final Certificate of Compliance does not take                  
           effect within three years of the date of  this Order, each IM Report thereafter shall 
           include an assessment regarding whether, and to what extent, PW India continues to 
           make substantial progress toward satisfying the undertakings set forth in this Order.    

                                                        
19 
  The ITL may opt to issue a single, aggregate report that covers the annual results of both the QCMR and the ECR.   
                                                   30
 
---------------------Page 31---------------------

                                                                                                  
           (iv)  Remedial Measures Resulting from Annual Review Reports.  To the extent that  
           the annual ECR and QCMR reports, or the resulting IM Report, identify deficiencies or 
           instances of non-compliance with respect to the standards articulated therein, PW India 
           shall submit to the Independent Monitor a Remedial Plan within 60 days of its receipt 
           of the IM Report.  PW India shall permit                                     the Independent Monitor 30 days to make 
           recommendations to the remedial plan.  PW  India shall require the ITL to consult with 
           the Independent Monitor and make a good faith effort to incorporate the remedial plan 
           recommendations into the subsequent period’s ECR and QCMR, as appropriate and  
           PW India shall require the ITL to work cooperatively with the Independent Monitor 
           to resolve any disagreements to the satisfaction of the Independent Monitor.  If the            
           matter cannot be resolved, at the request of the Independent Monitor, PW India, 
           through the ITL, shall promptly provide written notice to the Independent Monitor and 
           the PCAOB staff and Commission staff.  Any disputes between the ITL and the 
           Independent Monitor with respect to the remedial plan shall be decided by the PCAOB 
           staff and the Commission staff, and their decision shall be final.  

       e. Reporting Requirements   .  PW India’s Assurance Lead er shall sign all QCMR, ECR, 
           and Remedial Plan reports, attesting that he or she has read and understood their 
           content and certifying satisfaction with any undertakings addressed, findings reached, 
           and remedial steps required in the reports.  PW India shall provide copies of all 
           written reports described in this Paragraph to the appropriate PCAOB staff and 
           Commission staff designees no later than 10 days from the date of completion.   

       f. 	 Documentation Requirements .  PW India agrees and undertakes to prepare and 
           preserve a copy of all written plans, reports, and responses in connection with the 
           undertakings set forth in this Order.  In addition, PW India shall maintain sufficient 
           documentation to provide a clear undertaking of its purpose, sources of support, and 
           conclusions that form the basis of all reports set forth in this Order.  PW India agrees 
           and undertakes that all such documentation shall be made available to the 
           Independent Monitor and, upon reasonable request, to PCAOB staff and Commission 
           staff.  All such documentation will be retained for two years following the Final 
           Certification of Compliance Date.  

   11. Interim Certificate of Compliance .  Upon a finding by the Independent Monitor that PW  
India:  (i) has developed an acceptable process for the review of Required Consultations 
(Paragraph 3.c.) for SEC Issuer Audits by an auditor experienced in U.S. GAAP and PCAOB 
Standards from a PwC Network Firm outside India; (ii) has demonstrated significant progress 
toward completion of the undertakings set forth in this Order; and (iii) has evidenced reasonable 
assurances from the QCMRs and ECRs that there are no significant deficiencies or instances of 
material non-compliance with respect to an SEC Issuer Audit or SEC Issuer Referred 
Engagement Work completed and reviewed for the previous fiscal year, PW India’s Assurance 
Leader shall certify  in writing that it has satisfied each of the above specified conditions 
(“Interim Certificate of Compliance”).  The Interim Certificate of Compliance shall identify each 
of the relevant reports in which PW India demonstrated written evidence of satisfaction in the 
                                                   31
 
---------------------Page 32---------------------

                                                                                                 
form of a narrative supported by exhibits sufficient to demonstrate compliance.  The Interim  
Certificate of Compliance and supporting material shall be submitted to the appropriate 
Commission Division of Enforcement and PCAOB Division of Enforcement designee (the 
“Designees”).   Upon receipt of the Interim Certificate of Compliance and any supporting 
material that the ITL and Independent Monitor deem necessary to support that Certificate, the 
Designees may make reasonable requests for further documents evidencing compliance and PW  
India agrees to provide the requested documents to the Designees and the Independent Monitor.  
Within the earlier of 30 days of receipt of the requested documents or 120 days after receipt of 
the Interim Certificate of Compliance, the Independent Monitor must either affirm or withdraw 
his or her initial findings regarding the Interim Certificate of Compliance in writing, a copy of  
which shall be provided to PW  India, the ITL, and the Designees.  The Interim Certificate of                         
Compliance takes effect upon confirmation by both Designees that they have received the 
Independent Monitor’s affirmation of findings in writing (“Interim Certificate of Compliance 
Date”), but in any event the Interim Certificate of Compliance Date shall not be before March 
31, 2012.  
 
   12. Final Certificate of Compliance                                .   Upon findings by the Independent Monitor that: (i) PW  
India has complied with the undertakings set forth in this Order; (ii) PW India has evidenced 
reasonable assurance that its quality controls in place for SEC Issuer-Related Audit Engagements 
are in compliance with PCAOB Quality Control Standards; and (iii) PW India has evidenced 
reasonable assurances that there are no significant deficiencies or instances of material non­
compliance with respect to all of the SEC Issuer-Related Audit Engagements completed and 
reviewed for the previous two fiscal years, PW  India’s Assurance Leader shall certify in writing 
that it has satisfied each of the above specified conditions (the “Final Certificate of 
Compliance”).   The Final Certificate of Compliance shall identify each of the relevant reports in 
which the Independent Monitor has found that PW India demonstrated written evidence of 
compliance in the form of a narrative supported by exhibits sufficient to demonstrate 
compliance.   The Final Certificate of Compliance and supporting material shall be submitted to 
the Designees.  Upon receipt of the Final Certificate of Compliance and the relevant reports, the 
Designees may make reasonable requests for further documents evidencing compliance and PW  
India shall provide the requested documents to the Designees and the Independent Monitor.  
Within the earlier of 60 days of the Designees’ receipt of the requested documents or 120 days 
after the Designees’ receipt of the Final Certificate of Compliance, the Independent Monitor 
must either affirm or withdraw his or her initial findings regarding the Final Certificate of  
Compliance in writing, a copy of which shall be provided to PW India, the ITL, and the 
Designees.  The Final Certificate of Compliance takes effect upon confirmation by both 
Designees that they have received the Independent Monitor’s affirmation of findings in writing.   
(“Final Certificate of Compliance Date”). 

   13. PCAOB Inspections                     .  PW India shall provide to the Independent Monitor inspection 
comment forms and responses and draft and final inspection reports pertaining to all PCAOB 
inspections of PCAOB-registered PW India firms that may occur from the date of this Order to 
the Final Certificate of Compliance Date.  The goal of this undertaking is to provide the 
Independent Monitor with an opportunity to review and identify any criticisms or potential 
                                                  32
 
---------------------Page 33---------------------

                                                                                                
defects in PW India’s quality control system that would indicate PW India has failed to evidence 
reasonable assurance that its quality controls in place for SEC Issuer-Related Audit Engagements 
are in compliance with PCAOB Quality Control Standards.  If the Independent Monitor 
concludes that the results of a PCAOB inspection of a PCAOB-registered PW India firm are 
inconsistent with his or her findings made in connection with Paragraph 12, the Final Certificate 
of Compliance Date will not take effect until the Independent Monitor provides a written report 
to PW India, the ITL, and the Designees that explains how the Independent Monitor has 
reconciled any such inconsistencies to his or her satisfaction. 

   14. From the date of this Order and until the Fi                                           nal Certificate of Compliance Date, PW India 
agrees and undertakes that its Shared Service Center Engagements shall be subject to the 
following conditions:  (a) all workpapers prepared by PW India shall be provided to the Global 
Engagement Partner or his or her designee; (b) the Global Engagement Partner shall engage a 
senior audit professional from a PwC Network Firm outside India to oversee and control the 
execution of the Shared Service Center Engagement; and (c) the Global Engagement Partner 
shall assume all responsibility for the Shared Service Center Engagement.  The term “Shared 
Service Center” shall mean an outsourcing facility that is a component of, or a third-party vendor 
to, an SEC Issuer and which operates, controls, and processes the SEC Issuer’s group financial 
transactions.  The term “Shared Service Center Engagement“ shall mean an audit engagement in 
which the Global Engagement Partner for an SEC-issuer group that is audited by a PwC Network 
Firm instructs PW India to audit the controls and processing of group financial transactions by a 
Shared Service Center.  Where PW India audits a Shared Service Center’s own financial 
statements and that engagement meets the definition of SEC Issuer Referred Engagement Work, 
such engagement shall be subject to the limitations on acceptance of SEC Issuer Referred 
Engagement Work set forth in Paragraph 2 and the Interim Conditions set forth in Paragraph 3.   

   In determining whether to accept the Offer, the Commission has considered these 
undertakings.  PW India agrees that if the Division of Enforcement believes that PW India has 
not satisfied these undertakings within a reasonable time, the Division of Enforcement may 
petition the Commission to reopen the matter to determine whether additional sanctions are 
appropriate. 

                                                 IV. 
                                                    
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offer. 
        
       Accordingly, pursuant to Sections 4C, 21B(a)(2)(B) and 21C of the Exchange Act, and 
Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, it is hereby ORDERED, effective 
immediately, that: 
        
       A.   Respondents shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violation and any  
           future violation of Section 10A(a) of the Exchange Act and from causing any 

                                                  33
 
---------------------Page 34---------------------

                                                                                                  
           violation and any future violation of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange 
           Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-16 thereunder; 
        
       B.   Respondents shall, within 45 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money 
           penalty in the amount of $6 million to the Securities and Exchange Commission.    If 
           the payment is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire 
           outstanding balance of civil penalties, plus any additional interest accrued pursuant to 
           31 U.S.C. 3717, shall be due and payable immediately, without further application.  
           Payment shall be: (A) made by wire transfer, United States postal money order, 
           certified check, bank cashier's check or bank money order; (B) made payable to the  
           Securities and Exchange Commission; (C) hand-delivered or mailed to the Office of  
           Financial Management, Securities and Exchange Commission, Operations Center, 6432 
           General Green Way, Alexandria, VA 22312-0003; and (D) submitted under a 
           notification that identifies Lovelock & Lewes, Price Waterhouse, Bangalore, Price  
           Waterhouse & Co., Bangalore, Price Waterhouse Calcutta, and Price Waterhouse & 
           Co., Calcutta as the Respondents in these proceedings as well as the file number of 
           these proceedings.  Respondents shall simultaneously transmit a copy of such payment 
           and notification to Cheryl J. Scarboro, Chief, Foreign Corrupt  Practices Act Unit, 
           Division of Enforcement, 100 F Street N.E., Washington, DC 20549-5030.  
           Respondents will cooperate with the staff of the Commission to obtain evidence of 
           receipt of the payments set forth herein. 
 
       C.   Pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, a Fair Fund is created 
           for the penalties referenced in Paragraph B above.  Regardless of whether any such            
           Fair Fund distribution is made, the civil penalty shall be treated as a penalty paid to the 
           government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To preserve the deterrent 
           effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that they shall not, after offset or 
           reduction of any award of compensatory damages in any Related Investor Action based 
           on Respondents’ payment of a civil penalty in this proceeding, argue that they are 
           entitled to, nor shall they further benefit by offset or reduction of any part of such 
           compensatory damages award by the amount of any part of Respon    dents’ payment of a 
           civil penalty in this proceeding ("Penalty Offset").  If the court in any Related Investor 
           Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that they shall, within 30 days 
           after entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel 
           in this proceeding and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the United States 
           Treasury or to a Fair Fund, as the Commission directs.  Such a payment shall not be 
           deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the  
           civil penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related 
           Investor Action" means a private damages action brought against any or all 
           Respondents by or on behalf of one or more  investors based on substantially the same  
           facts as alleged in this Order instituted by the Commission in this proceeding.  
 
       D.	    Respondents are censured pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules 
           of Practice; and 
                                                   34
 
---------------------Page 35---------------------


---------------------Page 36---------------------

                                                                                                    
                                        SERVICE LIST  

        

               Rule 141 of the Commission's Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or 
another duly authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order Instituting 
Public Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
Marking Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order, on the 
Respondents and their legal agent. 

        

               The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled 
to notice: 

        

       Honorable Brenda P. Murray         

       Chief Administrative Law Judge                          

       Securities and Exchange Commission  

100 F Street, N.E. 

Washington, DC 20549-2557                     

 

       Cheryl J. Scarboro, Esq.                                    

       Division of Enforcement         

Securities and Exchange Commission            

100 F Street, N.E. 

Washington, DC 20549                          

               

       Lovelock & Lewes  

                                                    36
 
---------------------Page 37---------------------

                                                                                             
       c/o Christopher Davies, Esq. 


       Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP 


       1875 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
  

       Washington, DC 20006 


        

       Price Waterhouse, Bangalore 


       c/o Christopher Davies, Esq. 


       Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP 


       1875 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
  

       Washington, DC 20006 


        

       Price Waterhouse & Co., Bangalore
  

       c/o Christopher Davies, Esq. 


       Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP 


       1875 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
  

       Washington, DC 20006 


        

        

        

        

        

       Price Waterhouse, Calcutta 

                                                37 
---------------------Page 38---------------------

                                                                                             
       c/o Christopher Davies, Esq. 


       Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP 


       1875 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
  

       Washington, DC 20006 


        

       Price Waterhouse & Co., Calcutta
  

       c/o Christopher Davies, Esq. 


       Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP 


       1875 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
  

       Washington, DC 20006 


        

       Christopher Davies, Esq.  


       Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP 


       1875 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
  

       Washington, DC 20006 


       (Counsel for Respondents Lovelock & Lewes,  


       Price Waterhouse, Bangalore,  


       Price Waterhouse & Co., Bangalore,  


       Price Waterhouse, Calcutta, and 


       Price Waterhouse & Co., Calcutta)
  

        

 

                                                38 
