---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                      the 
 SECURITIES                      AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 62988 / September 24, 2010 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3189 / September24, 2010 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-14068 
 
                                              ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
In the Matter of                             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO SECTION 
                                             21C OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
 SUNOPTA, INC.,                              OF 1934, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
 STEVEN R. BROMLEY, CGA, and                 IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER  
 JOHN H. DIETRICH, CA,  
 
Respondents. 
 
 
  
  
                                          I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against <comp.>SunOpta, Inc.</> (“SunOpta”), Steven R. Bromley, 
(“Bromley”), and John H. Dietrich (“Dietrich”) (collectively “Respondents”). 
 
                                          II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making 
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds1
                                                                                   that:  
 
                                            Summary 
                                               
       In <date.>2007</>, SunOpta, a Canadian health food company, filed inaccurate quarterly financial 
reports as a result of internal control problems in inventory accounting at its California-based 
subsidiary, Cleugh’s Frozen Foods (“CFF”), after CFF implemented a new accounting software 
system.  SunOpta’s chief executive officer (“CEO”), Steven R. Bromley, and chief financial officer 
(“CFO”), John H. Dietrich became aware of CFF’s problems and took steps to address those 
difficulties and correct its accounts throughout the year.  However, these efforts were inadequate to 
address the scope of CFF’s problems.  Later restatements show that CFF’s errors caused SunOpta 
to overstate its consolidated <item.>earnings</> for the first three quarters of 2007 by approximately 103%, 
42%, and 65%, respectively. 2
                               In addition, during 2007, SunOpta did not disclose any material 
changes to its internal controls over financial reporting, as is required under Item 308(c) of 
Regulation S-K promulgated pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 
 
                                          Respondents 
 
       1.      SunOpta, Inc., a Canadian corporation headquartered in Ontario, operates 
throughout North America in the natural and organic food, supplements, and health and beauty 
markets.  SunOpta stock is registered with the Commission under Section 12(b) of the Exchange 
Act, and it trades on the Nasdaq Global Select Market.   
 
       2.      Steven R. Bromley, Certified General Accountant (“CGA”), age 51 and a resident 
of Ontario, Canada, has been SunOpta’s president since January 2005, and a board member and 
CEO since February 2007.  He previously served as SunOpta’s CFO and chief operating officer.  
Bromley has been licensed as a CGA in Canada since 1987. 
        
       3.      John H. Dietrich, Chartered Accountant (“CA”), age 45 and a resident of Ontario, 
Canada, was SunOpta’s CFO and vice president from September 2003 until March 2009.  He is 
now a vice president of corporate development.  Dietrich has been licensed as a CA in Canada 
since 1989. 
        
                                              Facts 
        
       4.           SunOpta has several business groups and consolidates their financial information 
for its public filings.  SunOpta’s “Fruit Group” segment provides fruit and vegetable products to 
the private label retail and industrial markets.  In 2005, SunOpta’s Fruit Group acquired CFF.  
                                                 
       1
         The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not binding 
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  

       2
         As used in this Order, “consolidated earnings” means SunOpta’s reported earnings before taxes, interest 
expense, other expenses, foreign exchange gain/loss, and minority interest gain/loss. 
                                                 2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

During 2007, CFF’s inventory represented approximately 26% of SunOpta’s consolidated 
inventory balance. 
        
       5.           At the time of its acquisition, CFF was a family-owned business, and its accounting 
controls were largely manual and informal.  Accordingly, to improve internal control over financial 
reporting, SunOpta implemented an Oracle accounting system at CFF in early March 2007.   
        
              6.           Almost immediately, and continuing throughout 2007, information CFF input into 
Oracle was unreliable and did not accurately depict the value of CFF’s inventory.  These 
accounting errors affected virtually every aspect of CFF’s inventory accounting.  Specifically, CFF 
improperly accounted for inventory in the following areas: 
        
  a.                                  Costing.  When CFF initially loaded the value of its pre-existing inventory 
into Oracle, CFF incorrectly increased the recorded costs of that inventory.  In addition, the bills of 
materials CFF input into Oracle throughout the year to document inventory costs frequently 
incorporated incorrect rates of overhead, materials used, units of measure, and other data.   
 
  b.                                  Quantity.  During 2007, CFF stored the majority of its inventory in 
warehouses owned by third parties.  However, CFF did not reconcile the quantity of inventory 
recorded in Oracle with the quantity of inventory recorded by the third-party warehouses for the 
first and second quarters of 2007.  CFF’s reconciliation for the third quarter was not properly 
completed.   
 
  c.                                  Unsupported Manual Adjustment.  When CFF received products from 
growers before growers invoiced CFF, CFF tracked this inventory in an accrual account called 
“Goods Received Not Invoiced” (“GRNI”).  However, CFF often failed to relieve this account 
when it later received invoices from the growers and completed its accounting for the transaction.  
When the GRNI account ballooned during the second quarter, CFF made a large adjustment to the 
account based on incomplete data.   
 
  d.                                  Net Realizable Value.  During the first three quarters of 2007, CFF did not 
timely input information in Oracle that would show that the cost of much of its inventory exceeded 
the market price for these products.  CFF also failed to otherwise review relevant data and, as a 
result, it failed to identify necessary downward adjustments to account for such inventory at its net 
realizable value.   
 
       7.           Because of CFF’s inaccurate inventory accounting, the financial statements CFF 
generated for each of the first three quarters of 2007 were not fairly stated.  These errors in turn 
caused SunOpta to overstate its consolidated earnings for the first three quarters of 2007 by a total 
of approximately 103%, 42%, and 65%, respectively, in Forms 10-Q and Forms 8-K that SunOpta 
filed with the Commission.  These errors also caused SunOpta to report misstatements for its Fruit 
Group segment, changing the segment’s previously-reported earnings to a loss for both the first 
and third quarters, and substantially reducing the previously-reported earnings for the second 
quarter.  Both Bromley and Dietrich participated in the drafting of these filings with the 
Commission. 

                                                 3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
              8.           Bromley and Dietrich knew about, and took steps to remedy, problems with CFF’s 
inventory accounting during 2007.  They documented these issues, created plans to address them, 
and made attempts to correct CFF’s accounting at each quarter-end.  However, these efforts were 
insufficient to address the scope of the inventory accounting problems at CFF and produce fairly 
stated financial statements.  
 
       9.           In the Forms 10-Q it originally filed for the first three quarters of 2007, SunOpta 
stated that there had been “no change in the company’s internal control over financial reporting” 
that has “materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal 
control over financial reporting.”  Both Bromley and Dietrich signed certifications with each Form 
10-Q filing attesting that any such changes had been disclosed.  When SunOpta filed its restated 
financial statements for each quarter, its amended Forms 10-Q included the revised disclosure that 
there had been material changes to its internal controls relating to the “manual procedures and 
adjustments” that had “supplanted certain system control processes relating to the purchasing, 
payables, sales, receivables, and inventory accounting cycles.”   
        
       10.        Both Bromley and Dietrich sold SunOpta stock during the time period covered by 
the restatements.  When those sales occurred, SunOpta’s stock price was inflated due, in part, to its 
incorrectly reported financial results that were attributable to internal control issues at CFF.  At the 
time of their sales, Bromley and Dietrich were aware of certain of CFF’s internal control issues.  
 
                                            Violations 
        
       11.        SunOpta violated Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-11, and 
13a-13 thereunder by filing Forms 10-Q and Forms 8-K for the first three quarters of 2007 that 
materially misstated SunOpta’s financial statements, and by filing Forms 10-Q for these periods 
that did not disclose material changes to SunOpta’s internal control over financial reporting as 
required by Item 308(c) of Regulation S-K.  As described above, Bromley and Dietrich were a 
cause of SunOpta’s violations of these provisions.   
        
       12.        SunOpta violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act by keeping books and 
records with inaccurate entries related to SunOpta’s inventory balances during the first three 
quarters of 2007.  The company violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) by failing to devise and maintain an 
effective system of internal controls when accounting for CFF’s inventory after conversion to the 
Oracle accounting system.    As described above, Bromley and Dietrich were a cause of SunOpta’s 
violations of these provisions. 
        
       13.        Exchange Act Rule 13a-14 requires an issuer’s CEO and CFO to certify that they 
have disclosed in the issuer’s quarterly report any change in the issuer’s internal control over 
financial reporting that occurred during the most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, 
or is likely to materially affect, the issuer’s internal control over financial reporting.  Because 
SunOpta’s quarterly reports for the first three quarters of 2007 did not disclose material changes to 
its internal control over financial reporting, Bromley and Dietrich violated Rule 13a-14.   
 

                                                4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                              IV. 
                                                
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
 
       Accordingly, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.  Respondent SunOpta cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
          any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange 
          Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder; 
           
       B.  Respondent Bromley cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
          any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange 
          Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-11, 13a-13, and 13a-14 thereunder;  
        
       C.  In connection with his sale of SunOpta stock as referenced above, Respondent Bromley 
          shall, within 21 days of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement of $40,905 and 
          prejudgment interest of $5,294.77 to the United States Treasury.  If timely payment is 
          not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600.  
          Payment shall be: (A) made by wire transfer, United States postal money order, 
          certified check, bank cashier's check or bank money order; (B) made payable to the 
          Securities and Exchange Commission; (C) hand-delivered or mailed to the Office of 
          Financial Management, Securities and Exchange Commission, Operations Center, 6432 
          General Green Way, Stop 0-3, Alexandria, VA 22312; and (D) submitted under cover 
          letter that identifies Bromley as a Respondent in these proceedings, the file number of 
          these proceedings, a copy of which cover letter and money order or check shall be sent 
          to Noel M. Franklin, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 
          1801 California Street, Suite 1500, Denver, CO 80202; 
        
       D.  Respondent Dietrich cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
          any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange 
          Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-11, 13a-13, and 13a-14 thereunder; and 

                                               5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 
         E.  In connection with his sale of SunOpta stock as referenced above, Respondent Dietrich 
             shall, within 21 days of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement of $5,780 and 
             prejudgment interest of $1,011.90 to the United States Treasury.  If timely payment is 
             not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600.  
             Payment shall be: (A) made by wire transfer, United States postal money order, 
             certified check, bank cashier's check or bank money order; (B) made payable to the 
             Securities and Exchange Commission; (C) hand-delivered or mailed to the Office of 
             Financial Management, Securities and Exchange Commission, Operations Center, 6432 
             General Green Way, Stop 0-3, Alexandria, VA 22312; and (D) submitted under cover 
             letter that identifies Dietrich as a Respondent in these proceedings, the file number of 
             these proceedings, a copy of which cover letter and money order or check shall be sent 
             to Noel M. Franklin, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 
             1801 California Street, Suite 1500, Denver, CO 80202. 
              
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth M. Murphy 
       Secretary 

                                                         6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                                        Service List 
 
              Rule 141 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or another 
duly authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order Instituting Cease-and-
Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making 
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), on the Respondents and their legal 
agents. 
 
              The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to 
notice: 
 
Honorable Brenda P. Murray 
Chief Administrative Law Judge 
Securities and Exchange Commission 
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC  20549-2557 
 
Noel M. Franklin, Esq. 
Denver Regional Office 
Securities and Exchange Commission 
1801 California Street, Suite 1500 
Denver, CO  80202 
 
SunOpta, Inc. 
c/o Bruce A. Baird, Esq. 
Covington & Burlington LLP 
1201 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. 
Washington, DC  20004-2401 
 
Steven R. Bromley, CGA 
c/o Andrew J. Geist, Esq. 
O’Melveny & Myers LLP 
Times Square Tower 
7 Time Square 
New York, NY 10036 
 
John H. Dietrich, CA 
c/o Andrew J. Geist, Esq. 
O’Melveny & Myers LLP 
Times Square Tower 
7 Time Square 
New York, NY 10036 
 

                                              7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 
Bruce A. Baird, Esq. 
Covington & Burlington LLP 
1201 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. 
Washington, DC  20004-2401 
(Counsel for SunOpta, Inc.) 
 
Andrew J. Geist, Esq. 
O’Melveny & Myers LLP 
Times Square Tower 
7 Time Square 
New York, NY 10036 
(Counsel for Steven R. Bromley and John H. Dietrich) 
 
 
 

                                            8 
