---------------------Page 1---------------------

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17561 
 
Ohio-Based Bank Settles Charges Due to Understating ALLL 
 
September 21, 2016 – The Securities and Exchange Commission today announced that       <comp.>Park 
National Corporation, Inc.</> (Park), an Ohio -based bank holding company , has agreed to pay 
$500,000 to settle charges that it violated the reporting, internal accounting controls, and books  -
and-records provisions of the federal securities laws in connection with accounting errors 
identified as part of the company’s restatements filed in early 2012. 
 
An SEC investigation found that, during <date.>2010</> and the first three quarters of <date.>2011</>, Park 
understated its reported <item.>allowance for loan and lease losses</> (<item.>ALLL</>) by limiting impairments on 
several problem loans by including cash flows it thought it could collect from the loan guarantors 
through litigation.  Park misapplied generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) by 
including cash flows from future possible litigation settlements relating to guarantee agreements 
that were subject to litigation.  Any expected cash flows associated with litigation should not 
have been included in the impairment measurement for problem loans.  In addition, Park ’s ALLL 
was also understated as a result of Park’s use of improper collateral valuations provided by an 
outside contractor.  The outside contractor, who was not an appraiser, calculated values that were 
in most instances materially higher than those obtained from professional appraisers.  Park did 
not know what factors or methodology the contractor used to arrive at the valuations and there 
was no documentation to support the valuations.  Park’s use of the anticipated guarantor cash 
flows and the unsubstantiated collateral valuations in impairment calculations was not in 
accordance with GAAP.     Based on these identified errors, on February 28, 2012, Park filed 
restatements to correct the reported ALLL for fiscal year 2010 and the first three quarters of 
2011.  The restatements reflected an increase of more than $22 million to Park’s provision for 
loan losses and ALLL and a 25% decrease in income before taxes for fiscal year 2010, with 
additional adjustments to the relevant 2011 quarters. 
 
The SEC’s order finds that Park violated the reporting, internal accounting controls, and books -
and-records provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 
thereunder.  Without admitting or denying the findings, Park agreed to the entry of a cease- and-
desist order and to pay a penalty of $500,000. 
 
The SEC’s investigation was conducted by Eugene H. Bull    and  David Estabrook.  The case was 
supervised by Laura B. Josephs and Scott W. Friestad. 
 
See also:     Order 
