---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
                                                       
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 79650 / December 21, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3835 / December 21, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17742 
 
                                               
In the Matter of                              ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE -AND-DESIST 
                                              PROCEEDINGS, PURSUANT TO SECTION 
      JACK HENRY &                            21C OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
      ASSOCIATES, INC.                        OF 1934, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                              IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A 
Respondent.                                   CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER   
 
 
                                                
                                           I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, 
instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) 
against Jack Henry & Associates, Inc. (“Respondent”).   
                                             
                                          II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting 
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below. 
                                             
                                                                        
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                III. 
 
                                                                                 1
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that: 
 
                                           SUMMARY 
 
       During the time period from fiscal year ended <date.>June 30, 2012</> through fiscal year ended <date.>June 
30, 2014</>, <comp.>Jack Henry & Associates, Inc.</> (“JKHY”), a banking software company, materially 
misstated its <item.>revenue</>, <item.>net income</>, and other financial metrics in certain of its annual and quarterly 
reports filed with the Commission and in certain of its earnings releases. In particular, JKHY failed 
to properly record and report revenue from its software license sales in the correct accounting 
periods because it: (1) improperly separated contracts so closely related that they should have been 
considered to be parts of a single arrangement; and (2) prematurely recognized revenue from sales 
of software given its lack of vendor-specific objective evidence (“VSOE”) of the fair value of 
undelivered services related to implementation and post-contract support. JKHY’s failures in these 
areas were caused by inadequate internal control surrounding revenue recognition.  
 
       Ultimately, in June 2015, JKHY restated its financial statements for fiscal years June 30, 
2012 through June 30, 2014, and in its restatement acknowledged, among other things, material 
weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting. By engaging in the foregoing conduct, 
JKHY violated the reporting, books and records, and internal control provisions of the federal 
securities laws, namely Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 
12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder. 
 
                                       RESPONDENT 
 
        Jack Henry & Associates, Inc., a Delaware corporation headquartered in Monett, 
Missouri, is a provider of core and complementary information processing solutions for banks and 
credit unions, including internal and consumer banking software. JKHY’s restated 2014 revenue 
was approximately $1.17 billion, and its current market capitalization is approximately $6.4 billion. 
At all relevant times, JKHY’s common stock has been registered with the Commission pursuant to 
Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Because 
JKHY had stock registered under Section 12, it was required to file reports with the Commission 
pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. 
        
                                        BACKGROUND 
 
       1.      During the relevant period, JKHY sold a variety of software to banks and credit 
unions. JKHY also offered two key services typically purchased alongside the software licenses: 
implementation services and post-contract support. Most contracts signed with customers included 
all three of these items, each with their own contracted prices: (1) the software licenses for the 
various products purchased; (2) implementation services; and (3) post-contract support. Some 
contracts included different products installed over a number of months or even years. 

                                                 
1
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on 
       any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
 
                                                 2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       2.     The software products offered by JKHY included core processing platforms (“core 
software”) used internally by financial institutions to maintain information relating to customer 
accounts. JKHY also offered various software products that integrated with the core software, such 
as software for bank tellers, ATM software and online banking software (known as 
“complementary software”). These different categories of complementary software were 
commonly referred to as “families” of software products, and each family had its own operating 
group within JKHY that was responsible for tasks such as sales, installation and support for that 
family of products. 
        
       3.     Implementation services consisted of JKHY software technicians for each product 
family who would install, implement, and integrate the software products into the customer’s 
existing software and hardware systems.  
        
       4.     Post-contract support consisted of ongoing software patches, tech support, user 
support, and other post-installation maintenance of the software programs. The post-contract 
support in a customer's initial contract was effective from the software implementation date 
through the next June 30th (JKHY’s fiscal year end). As a result, post-contract support in the initial 
contracts was almost always provided for less than one year. Customers would then renew their 
post-contract support on an annual or multi-year basis as part of a separate contract. These later 
contracts for post-contract support were recorded properly and revenue earned from these contracts 
was not restated. 
        
       5.     Many contracts included licenses for both core software and various 
complementary software products. Each software license was accompanied by its own 
implementation services and post-contract support, tailored for the particular product and 
negotiated and priced separately within an exhibit to the contract form. 
        
       6.     When a contract included both core software and complementary software, the core 
software was often installed first. Once the core software was fully installed and implemented, then 
the other complementary software products would be installed according to a schedule agreed upon 
by JKHY and the customer. 
        
       7.     In some instances in which the contract included complementary software, the 
customer already had a license for a JKHY competitor’s version of contracted-for complementary 
software that would not expire for a year or more. In such instances, the customer typically would 
still enter into a contract with JKHY for that complementary software. Although the core software 
would be installed promptly, the complementary software would not be scheduled for installation 
until it was needed, which could be several months or even years after the core software 
installation. 
        
                              JKHY’S ACCOUNTING ERRORS 
                                                     
       8.     In 1997, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“AICPA”) 
issued Statement of Position 97-2, Software – Revenue Recognition (“SOP 97-2”), the first 
industry specific GAAP guidance on revenue recognition for software and software-related 
products. Following the issuance of SOP 97-2, the AICPA also released numerous standards and 
 
                                                3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

Technical Practice Aids (“TPAs”) clarifying specific aspects of software revenue recognition. In 
June 2009, all existing GAAP pronouncements were codified into the Accounting Standards 
Codification, effective for periods ending after September 15, 2009. SOP 97-2, its related 
amendments and related TPAs were codified at ASC 985-605 (hereinafter “ASC 985-605”). 
        
       9.     ASC 985-605 refers to arrangements in which software vendors bundle their 
software products with myriad services or other products as “multiple-element arrangements.” 
The provisions for license, implementation, and post-contract support in JKHY’s contracts 
constituted the elements in these multiple-element arrangements. 
        
       10.    Due to the separate negotiation, pricing, and operational support provided for 
each product family, JKHY treated the contractual provisions governing the sale and support of 
each such family as a separate and distinct arrangement for license revenue recognition purposes. 
For example, if a contract included licenses for core software and three complementary software 
products, each in a different family, then JKHY treated this as four separate arrangements. As a 
result, when the core software was fully installed, JKHY would recognize revenue for that 
software license during that quarter. JKHY would then wait to recognize the license revenue for 
the other three software products as they were installed. 
        
       11.    JKHY’s revenue recognition policy described in the prior paragraph was 
inconsistent with ASC 985-605, which requires that all elements of a contract be treated as a 
“single arrangement.” JKHY was thus required to wait until all elements of the arrangement were 
delivered before recognizing any of the revenue. As a result, in many instances during the 
relevant period, JKHY’s revenue recognition policy caused JKHY to recognize revenue from 
license sales one or more quarters before it was appropriate to do so. 
        
       12.    Further, under ASC 985-605, in order to recognize the residual amount of revenue 
from the sale of a software license in the quarter in which the software was delivered, JKHY had 
to establish that it had VSOE of fair value to establish market pricing for all undelivered 
elements of the bundled services, i.e. both implementation and post-contract support. If JKHY 
was unable to establish VSOE of fair value for either undelivered element, it would lack any 
objective way to allocate total contract revenues amongst the various elements and would thus be 
required to defer recognizing revenue from delivered elements until the last item was delivered. In 
this case, the last item to be delivered was generally post-contract support, which was delivered 
ratably over the term of the contract. As such, absent VSOE of fair value for post-contract support, 
JKHY was required to recognize revenue from the software license ratably over the term of the 
services agreement as post-contract support was ultimately delivered. 
        
       13.    According to its revenue recognition policies, JKHY claimed VSOE of fair value 
for the pricing of its implementation and post-contract support services. Because JKHY claimed 
VSOE of fair value, it could recognize the VSOE-supported price of its license sale as revenue 
once the software was delivered, even if the implementation and post-contract support services 
were not yet delivered. For example, if software was installed in October of a given year, the 
                                                         th
post-contract support would be provided through June 30  of the following year. In such a 
scenario, JKHY, claiming VSOE of fair value, could recognize the license and implementation 

 
                                               4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

services revenue as each element was delivered. This is in fact how JKHY recognized its 
revenue. 
        
       14.    In reality, JKHY could not produce sufficient data to establish that VSOE of fair 
value existed for either implementation or post-contract support services. As a result, for fiscal 
years 2012 through 2014, JKHY improperly recognized license revenue before it was 
appropriate to do so for many of its contracts. For these contracts, JKHY should have instead 
recognized revenue for license sales ratably over the period between the time of delivery and 
when the last element was delivered, often the end of the post-contract support services under the 
contract, but sometimes when complementary software was installed months or years later.  
        
       15.    As a result of the three above accounting errors (incorrect “single arrangement” 
contract treatment, insufficient VSOE of fair value for implementation, and insufficient VSOE of 
fair value for post-contract support services), JKHY’s revenue was materially misstated for the 
fiscal years ending June 30, 2013 and June 30, 2014. None of the revenue recognized by JKHY 
during that timeframe was illegitimate – only the timing of recognizing that revenue was incorrect. 
 
                                    THE RESTATEMENT 
        
       16.    On June 25, 2015, JKHY restated its financial statements for fiscal years 2012 
through 2014.  JKHY originally misstated its revenues, gross profit, net income, and other financial 
metrics in these reporting periods. Because the accounting errors caused revenue to be prematurely 
recognized, this decreased reported revenue and increased deferred revenue during the reported 
periods. The chart below summarizes JKHY’s misstatements on its Income Statement:  
 
                         Table 1: Changes to Financials from Restatement 
                                                          Fiscal year (ending June 30) 
                        in $000s                      2012          2013          2014 

              Revenue Originally Reported           1,027,109       1,129,386       1,210,053       
                   Revenue Restated                1,017,667      1,107,524     1,173,173  
                Revenue Over Statement              9,442           21,862       36,880  
               Percentage Over Statement             0.92%          1.94%         3.05% 

             Gross Profit Originally Reported           423,730    476,992       518,629   
                  Gross Profit Restated               418,823      461,394       493,801  
              Gross Profit Over Statement             4,907         15,598       24,828  
               Percentage Over Statement             1.16%          3.27%         4.79% 

             Net Income Originally Reported           154,984      176,645       201,136   
                  Net Income Restated               152,040        167,610       186,715  
              Net Income Over Statement             2,944           9,035        14,421  
               Percentage Over Statement             1.90%          5.11%         7.17% 

                                                                                      
 
                                                5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

             Diluted EPS Originally Reported          $        1.78     $        2.04     $        2.36  

                  Diluted EPS Restated               $        1.74     $        1.94     $        2.19  

               Diluted EPS Over Statement            $        0.04     $        0.10     $        0.17  

               Percentage Over Statement             2.30%           5.15%         7.76% 
 
       17.    In its restatement, JKHY identified the following deficiencies in the design and 
operating effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting that JKHY concluded 
constituted a material weakness taken together, which resulted in the misstatements: 
   A.  The lack of training and continuing education related to multiple element software 
       arrangements led to a lack of knowledge of the individuals tasked with understanding 
       various technical accounting matters associated with JKHY’s multiple element 
       arrangement revenue recognition policies; 
   B.  Appropriate accounting and reporting policies and procedures related to bundled multiple 
       element arrangements were not designed and implemented; 
   C.  Appropriate internal accounting controls over financial reporting for bundled multiple 
       element arrangements were not designed and implemented; and 
   D.  Monitoring, including use of internal audit, was not appropriately designed to identify 
       errors in accounting for revenue recognition for multiple element software arrangements. 
 
                                         VIOLATIONS 
                                                  
       18.    Under Section 21C of the Exchange Act, the Commission may impose a cease-and-
desist order upon any person who is violating, has violated, or is about to violate any provision of 
the Act and upon any other person that is, was, or would be a cause of the violation, due to an act 
or omission the person knew or should have known would contribute to such violation. 
        
       19.    Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to file such periodic and other 
reports as the Commission may prescribe and in conformity with such rules as the Commission 
may promulgate. Exchange Act Rules 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 require the filing of annual, 
current, and quarterly reports, respectively. In addition to the information expressly required to be 
included in such reports, Rule 12b-20 of the Exchange Act requires issuers to add such further 
material information, if any, as may be necessary to make the required statements, in the light of 
the circumstances under which they are made not misleading.  
 
       20.    Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to “make and keep books, 
records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the issuer.”  
        
       21.    Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to devise and maintain a 
system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements in conformity with 
generally accepted accounting principles. 
        
       22.    By engaging in the conduct above, Respondent violated Section 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 
and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder. 
 
                                                 6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

        
       23.    In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts 
undertaken by Respondent, including its enhancement of internal accounting controls, retention of 
additional accounting personnel, and cooperation with the staff’s investigation. 
        
                                               IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.     Respondent cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Section 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-
20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder. 
 
       B.     Respondent shall, within 30 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money 
penalty in the amount of $780,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the 
general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If timely 
payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717. Payment must 
be made in one of the following ways:   
 
              (1)     Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                      will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
               
              (2)     Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
               
              (3)     Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
              Enterprise Services Center 
              Accounts Receivable Branch 
              HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
              6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
              Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying Jack 
Henry & Associates, Inc. as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these 
proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Robert J. Burson, 
Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 175 W. Jackson Blvd. Suite 900, 
Chicago, IL 60604. 
 
       C.     Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be 
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To 
 
                                                7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor 
Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any 
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil 
penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset").  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a 
Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting 
the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the 
Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be deemed 
an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty 
imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" means a 
private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based 
on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this 
proceeding. 
 
 
                    
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                      Brent J. Fields 
                                                      Secretary 
 
 
 
 

 
                                                 8 
