---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 79395 / November 23, 2016 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3830 / November 23, 2016 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-13190 

                          
                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Mark David Shapiro, CPA  
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                          
        

       On September 12, 2008, Mark David Shapiro, CPA (“Shapiro”) was suspended from 
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against Shapiro pursuant to Rule 
                                                1
102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice.   This order is issued in response to 
Shapiro’s application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 

       The Commission found that Shapiro had been permanently enjoined by a United States 
District Court from future violations of Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 and Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1, and 13b2-2 promulgated thereunder and from aiding and 
abetting violations of Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act 
and Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1, 13b2-2, 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 promulgated thereunder.  In its 
Complaint in the injunctive action, the Commission alleged, among other things, that Shapiro 
engaged in a fraudulent scheme that resulted in <comp.>Fleming Companies, Inc.</> (“Fleming”) filing 
materially false and misleading financial statements in <date.>2001</> and <date.>2002</>.  The Complaint alleged 
that Shapiro engaged in a number of improper accounting practices that materially increased 
Fleming’s annual and quarterly <item.>revenue</> and <item.>net income</> in a departure from generally accepted 
accounting principles.  These practices included, among other things, prematurely recognizing 
rebates as income. In addition, the complaint alleged that Shapiro made material 

                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2876 dated September 12, 2008.  Shapiro was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after three years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                     

misrepresentations to Fleming’s independent auditor about certain of the company’s accounting 
practices. 
 
       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Shapiro 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Shapiro is not, at this time, seeking to appear 
or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume 
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be 
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Shapiro’s 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
                                                          2
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”   This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Shapiro, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the September 12, 2008 order 
suspending him from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 
and that Shapiro, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee 
of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in 
his practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to 
be filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is 
accordingly, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this rule may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a hearing; 
however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated by the 
Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
 

                                                 2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                                

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Mark David Shapiro, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as 
an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                             
                                             
                                            Brent J. Fields  
                                            Secretary  

                                               3 
