---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                              before the 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 10085 / June 1, 2016 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 77967 / June 1, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3776 / June 1, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17268
                                                 
                                                :        
                                                :        
                                                :         
        In the Matter of                        :       ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                :       PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
                JANE E. STARRETT,          :       102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                CPA,                            :       PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                                :       IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                Respondent.                     :        
                                                :        
                                                :        
____________________________________ :                   
 
                                                   I. 
 
        The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Jane E. 
Starrett, CPA (“Respondent” or “Starrett”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
                  1
Rules of Practice.    
                                                     
                                                     

                                                 
1
  Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
        The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary heari        ng, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commis      sion, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
               1.     Starrett, age 62, is a resident of Flagstaff, Arizona.  From April 2007 to 
July 2008, Starrett served as chief accounting officer for Thornburg Mortgage, Inc. (“Thornburg”) 
and helped prepare Thornburg’s financial statements and public filings such as quarterly and 
annual SEC reports.  Starrett also served as one of Thornburg’s principal contacts with its outside 
auditor.  Starrett became a certified public accountant in California in 1976, but her license has 
been inactive since 1989. 
        
               2.      Thornburg was, at the time of Starrett’s employment, a Maryland 
corporation with its principal place of business in Santa Fe, New Mexico.  Thornburg was a single-
family residential mortgage lender focused primarily on the prime segment of jumbo and super-
jumbo adjustable rate mortgage loans.  Thornburg was a reporting company that had five classes of 
securities, including its common stock, registered with the Commission under Section 12(b) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”).  Its common stock was listed on the New 
York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “TMA.”  Thornburg filed for Chapter 11 
bankruptcy and ceased operations in 2009.   
 
               3.     On March 13, 2012, the Commission filed a Complaint against Starrett in 
SEC v. Larry A. Goldstone, et al., Civil Action No. 1:12-cv-00257 (D.N.M).  On May 31, 2016, 
the Court entered an order permanently enjoining Starrett, by consent, from future violations of 
Section 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1, 
and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange 
Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-1 thereunder.   
 
               4.      The Commission’s Complaint alleged, among other things, that due to the 
acts and omissions of Starrett and two other senior Thornburg executives, Thornburg made 
material misstatements concerning its other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) conclusion in its 
annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007.  According to the 
Complaint, in the weeks leading to the filing of its 2007 Form 10-K, Thornburg received more than 
$300 million in margin calls and was late in meeting margin calls from at least three lenders and 

                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

therefore subject to being declared in default of its lending agreements.  The Complaint also 
alleged that given Thornburg’s severe liquidity crisis, Thornburg improperly failed to recognize on 
its income statement over $400 million in losses associated with its impaired assets serving as 
collateral for the company’s loans, and also incorrectly reported that it had returned to profitability 
in the fourth quarter of 2007. 
        
                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Starrett’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Starrett is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
       B.      After three years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider her reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in her practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which she works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as she practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                      (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which she is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which 
she is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any 
criticisms of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that 
would indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Respondent acknowledges her responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
      
       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that her state CPA license is 
current and she has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                     Brent J. Fields 
                                                     Secretary 
 

                                                4  
