---------------------Page 1---------------------

Proceedings Instituted Against California-based Audit Firm and Two of Its Accountants 
For Alleged Improper Professional Conduct and Audit Failures 
 
Feb. 11, 2016 – The Securities and Exchange Commission today announced the issuance of an 
Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings against California-based 
audit firm Frazer Frost LLP and two of its accountants, engagement partner Susan Woo and 
manager Miranda Suen (together, the “Auditors”), alleging multiple instances of improper 
professional conduct and audit failures during their third quarter 2010 review of interim 
financial information and their 2011 year-end audit of China Valves Technology, Inc. 
 
The SEC’s Enforcement Division and Office of the Chief Accountant allege that, during 
Frazer Frost’s third quarter 2010 interim review: 
   •  The Auditors learned from China Valves’ CEO that certain material information 
      concerning China Valves’ January 2010 acquisition of Watts Valve (Changsha) Co., 
      Ltd. was misstated or not included in the notes to the financial statements for the first 
      and second quarter 2010 Forms 10-Q.   
   •  The Auditors performed procedures which confirmed that the information in the prior 
      Forms 10-Q was materially misstated and proposed corrections to the third quarter 
      Form 10-Q in Frazer Frost’s workpapers. 
   •  Despite proposing corrections, Frazer Frost’s workpapers did not document that the 
      Auditors communicated the inaccuracies and proposed changes to China Valves’ 
      management or its audit committee. 
   •  Despite their awareness of the inaccuracies, Woo and Suen signed off on Frazer 
      Frost’s third quarter 2010 review of China Valves’ interim financial information, and 
      the company filed its Form 10-Q with the SEC that repeated the material 
      misstatements from the two previous quarters concerning the acquisition. 
 
The SEC’s Enforcement Division and Office of the Chief Accountant further allege that, 
during Frazer Frost’s 2011 year-end audit of China Valves: 
   •  While recognizing the need to exercise heightened professional skepticism during the 
      audit, the Auditors failed to follow their audit plan to perform extended procedures to 
      test $1.7 million in value-added-tax (“VAT”) payments purportedly made to a local 
      tax bureau by China Valves’ Pudong Hanwei Valve Co., Ltd. subsidiary.  They also 
      failed to replace those procedures with adequate alternatives or to document why 
      those procedures were no longer necessary. 
   •  Instead, in contravention of the risks they had identified, Respondents relied solely on 
      information provided by China Valves and, in doing so, failed to obtain sufficient 
      audit evidence. 
   •  As a result of this failure, the Auditors did not learn that Hanwei Valve had not made 
      the $1.7 million in VAT payments as recorded in China Valves’ books and records 
      and reported in the 2011 financial statements included in Form 10-K. 
   •  Frazer Frost subsequently issued an audit report containing an unqualified opinion as 
      to China Valves’ 2011 financial statements, which materially misstated the company’s 
      tax liabilities. 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

The Enforcement Division and the Office of the Chief Accountant allege that Frazer Frost 
engaged in improper professional conduct under Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice and willfully violated Rules 2-02 and 2-06 of Regulation S-X, that Woo and Suen 
engaged in improper professional conduct under Rule 102(e), that Woo caused Frazer 
Frost’s violations of Rules 2-02 and 2-06 of Regulation S-X, and that Suen caused Frazer 
Frost’s violations of Rules 2-06. 
 
The matter will be scheduled for a public hearing before an administrative law judge for 
proceedings to adjudicate the Enforcement Division’s and the Office of the Chief 
Accountant’s allegations and determine what, if any, remedial actions are appropriate. 
 
This action is the latest from the Cross-Border Working Group that focuses on companies 
with substantial foreign operations that are publicly traded in the U.S.  The Working Group 
has enabled the SEC to file fraud cases against more than 120 foreign issuers or executives, 
at least another 25 non-fraud cases involving at least 40 other defendants and respondents, 
most of whom were auditors and other gatekeepers, and deregister the securities of more 
than 145 companies. 
 
The SEC’s investigation was  conducted by Sarah Nilson, Patrick L. Feeney, and Janet Yang 
and supervised   by Melissa Hodgman.  The litigation will be led by Alfred Day. 
 
See Order:  http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2016/33-10039.pdf
