---------------------Page 1---------------------

 

                       UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                 Before the 
                SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
                                      
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 10369 / June 9, 2017 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 80901 / June 9, 2017 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3874 / June 9, 2017 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-18020 
 
 
                                  
In the Matter of 
                                        ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
 
                                        ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-AND-
     MICHAEL B. HAYFORD, 
                                        DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT 
     KEVIN D. McCLELLAND, 
                                        TO SECTIONS 8A OF THE 
     CPA, and DANIEL L. 
                                        SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECTIONS 
     ROTHBAUM, CPA. 
                                        4C AND 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                        EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND RULE 
Respondents.                             102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S 
                                                    
                                                                 
                                                                     
                                                            

                                  
 
 
 
                                    I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the 
Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Michael B. Hayford, Kevin D. McClelland, CPA and Daniel L. 
Rothbaum, CPA (collectively, “Respondents”), and that public administrative proceedings be, 

 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 

                                                                                             1
and hereby are, instituted against McClelland and Rothbaum pursuant to Section 4C              of the 
                                                                                      2
Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)      (1)(iii)   of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.     

                                                    II. 

        In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondents 
consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings 
Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933, Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings 
and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and Cease-and-Desist Orders (“Order”), as set forth below.  

                                                    III. 

                                                                                           3
        On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds             that:  

                                              SUMMARY 

        1.      UniTek Global Services, Inc. (“UniTek”) was until August 2014 a NASDAQ-
listed U.S. company that provided infrastructure services to telecommunications, broadband 
cable, wireless, transportation and other industries.  In April 2011, UniTek purchased Pinnacle 

                                                 
 

1
        Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
                The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the 
                privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . 
                (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character 
                or integrity, or to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have 
                willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the securities 
                laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 

 
2
        Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that:   

 
                The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
                practicing before it . . . to any person who is found…to have willfully violated, or willfully aided 
                and abetted the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules and 
                regulations thereunder. 

 
3
        The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                                     2 
 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 

                           4
Wireless, Inc. (“Pinnacle”),  a company whose largest source of revenue was a contract with the 
Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to provide equipment and services for rebuilding 
portions of the World Trade Center.  As part of this project, Pinnacle entered into numerous 
long-term contracts with subcontractors to provide equipment and systems for use in the 
construction.   

       2.     Between October 2011 and November 2012 (the “Relevant Period”), UniTek 
materially overstated its earnings in public filings with the Commission by improperly 
recognizing revenue generated by Pinnacle.  The inaccuracies in UniTek’s publicly filed 
financial statements arose from the premature recognition of revenue based on goods and 
services purchased from subcontractors using the percentage of completion accounting model.  
These misstatements were the result of Respondents’ conduct described below and UniTek’s 
lack of sufficient internal accounting controls regarding proper revenue recognition for such 
goods and services. 

       3.     On April 12, 2013, UniTek filed a Form 8-K with the Commission disclosing that 
several Pinnacle employees had engaged in “fraudulent activities that resulted in improper 
revenue recognition.”  The activities included requesting invoices from six different 
subcontractors retained to provide goods and services to the company, and prematurely 
recognizing revenue.  As a result, UniTek announced that its previously issued consolidated 
financial statements for each of the quarters from October 1, 2011 through September 29, 2012, 
and the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 should no longer be relied on.  For reporting 
purposes, Pinnacle’s financial information was consolidated with UniTek’s Engineering & 
Construction Segment, which was one of two segments broken out separately in UniTek’s 
quarterly and annual financial statements.  UniTek also announced that it had terminated certain 
employees which included Respondents, among others.  The price of UniTek stock shares 
dropped 50%, from $3.01 per share to $1.52 per share on the trading day following this 
announcement. 

       4.     On August 12, 2013, UniTek filed a 10-K restating its financial information for 
the aforementioned periods, and disclosing material weaknesses in its internal control over 
financial reporting related to: entity level monitoring controls over the Pinnacle division; internal 
audit monitoring controls for the investigation and reporting of significant matters to the audit 
committee and board of directors; revenue and cost recognition under the percentage-of-
completion method of accounting; and maintaining sufficiently experienced accounting 
personnel.  The combination of the above internal material weaknesses resulted in material 
misstatements of UniTek’s financial statements that were not prevented or detected on a timely 
basis.    

                                                 
 

4
       After the acquisition, Pinnacle Wireless, Inc. became Pinnacle Wireless, USA, a division of UniTek.  
Pinnacle, as used herein, refers to the division, not the predecessor company.   

                                                3 
 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 

       5.     Throughout the Relevant Period, UniTek utilized the percentage of completion 
(“POC”) method as a model for recognizing revenue.  POC accounting is an accounting method 
for incrementally recognizing revenue in connection with long-term contracts as progress is 
achieved toward contract completion.  UniTek measured progress using the cost-to-cost method 
under which costs incurred to date for the contract are divided by the total amount of costs 
expected to be incurred upon completion of the contract.  The percentage completion figure is 
then multiplied by the total project revenue to compute the amount of revenue that can be 
recognized as of that date.       

       6.     During the Relevant Period UniTek set internal quarterly financial targets and, as 
Pinnacle’s President, Hayford was responsible for setting and monitoring Pinnacle’s internal 
forecasts.  Hayford, who did not have a background in accounting and had no independent 
knowledge of the POC method of accounting, approached Rothbaum, Pinnacle’s Controller, and 
McClelland, UniTek’s Corporate Controller/Chief Accounting Officer to inquire whether costs 
and associated revenue could be recognized based upon the receipt of an invoice from a 
subcontractor under a long-term contract prior to the final delivery of goods or services.  This 
inquiry was significant because under the POC method for long-term contracts, revenue is 
incrementally recognized based on a ratio of costs incurred to date compared with estimated 
contract costs.  In these facts and circumstances, recognizing costs based on receipt of an invoice 
would have had the effect of allowing the company to recognize revenue earlier than it would 
have if it properly waited to do so until goods and services were actually delivered.  

       7.     McClelland, who received a Certified Public Accountant (“CPA”) certificate, and 
Rothbaum, who is a CPA,  were inexperienced in the POC method of accounting as applied to 
costs incurred for custom goods, and did not fully understand the relevant accounting principles 
with respect to this issue.  Furthermore, neither individual sought advice from outside experts, 
conducted research, or sought training on the issue.  As a result, they gave Hayford advice that 
was vague and erroneously indicated that costs and associated revenue could be recognized 
based upon the receipt of an invoice rather than upon the delivery of goods or services, provided 
that the invoice matched the corresponding purchase order and certain other conditions were met.  
Hayford, in turn, knew or should have known that, notwithstanding the advice he had received 
from McClelland and Rothbaum, it was improper to recognize revenue based on several of the 
invoices at issue because they contained inaccurate information about the value of goods 
delivered, payment terms, and quantity of work already completed.    

       8.     Not only was this accounting advice incorrect, McClelland, Rothbaum and 
Hayford knew or should have known that UniTek lacked sufficient internal accounting controls 
over its process for recording and monitoring Pinnacle purchase orders.  Hayford, as Pinnacle’s 
President, was most knowledgeable about the inability to accurately track purchase orders for 
comparison to invoices, yet he did not seek clarifying advice from Rothbaum, McClelland, or 
anyone else, to determine whether the invoices could still be relied upon as a basis for 
recognizing revenue.    

       9.     Based on this erroneous advice, Hayford, Rothbaum, and others working at their 
direction, contacted subcontractors with whom UniTek had contracted to build custom ordered 
equipment or provide services, and requested they send invoices prematurely; i.e. before all, or in 

                                               4 
 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 

some cases any, of the invoiced equipment or services had been delivered and without regard to 
the costs incurred by the subcontractor.  In many instances the invoices were also facially 
inaccurate.  Erroneously believing to be in compliance with Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles (“GAAP”), the Respondents relied on these invoices as a basis to recognize revenue.  
Because they misapplied GAAP and failed to confirm the accuracy of certain invoices, their 
negligent conduct resulted in UniTek prematurely recognizing revenue and filing false and 
misleading financial statements.            

       10.    In the course of the foregoing, and by their respective acts and omissions detailed 
below, Hayford, McClelland and Rothbaum committed or caused various violations of the 
antifraud, internal accounting controls, books-and-records, and reporting provisions of the 
federal securities laws.   

                                      RESPONDENTS 

       11.    Michael B. Hayford, age 48, is a resident of El Cajon, CA.  Hayford was 
President and one of the founders of Pinnacle Wireless, Inc.  In April 2011, Pinnacle Wireless, 
Inc. was acquired by UniTek and became Pinnacle Wireless, USA, a division of UniTek.  From 
April 2011 through April 2013, Hayford served as Division President of Pinnacle Wireless, 
USA.  In April 2013, UniTek terminated Hayford’s employment.    

       12.    Kevin D. McClelland, age 53, is a resident of Newtown Square, PA.  From 2009 
through 2013, McClelland served as UniTek’s Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate 
Controller.  In April 2013, UniTek terminated McClelland’s employment.  He passed the CPA 
exam and received a CPA certificate from the State of Illinois in 1987. 

       13.    Daniel L. Rothbaum, age 49, is a resident of Stamford, CT.  From September 
2011 through December 2012, Rothbaum served as Pinnacle’s Controller.  Between December 
2012 and February 2013, Rothbaum served as Pinnacle’s Accounting Manager.  Rothbaum 
reported to McClelland on accounting related matters, including revenue recognition issues.  In 
April 2013, Rothbaum was terminated by UniTek.  He is a CPA licensed in New York. 

          

                             OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES 

       14.    UniTek was a publicly traded company incorporated in Delaware with its 
principal executive offices in Blue Bell, PA.  From 2010 to 2014, UniTek’s common stock was 
registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and quoted under 
the symbol “UNTK” on the NASDAQ Stock Market.  The Company’s shares were delisted from 
NASDAQ in August 2014, and the company filed for bankruptcy protection in November 2014.  
The company is now privately owned.  At all relevant times, UniTek’s fiscal year coincided with 
the calendar year.  

       15.    Pinnacle is a wholly owned subsidiary of UniTek that was acquired by the 
company in April 2011.  Before being bought by UniTek, Pinnacle was privately owned by 

                                              5 
 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 

several individuals, including Hayford.  Pinnacle’s financial results and disclosures were 
incorporated into UniTek’s public filings.   

           APPLICABLE GAAP PROVISIONS AND UNITEK’S POLICY FOR  
           PERCENTAGE OF COMPLETION METHOD OF ACCOUNTING 

       16.    Throughout the Relevant Period, UniTek utilized the POC method of accounting 
as the revenue recognition model for its long-term construction-type contracts.  Prior to the 
Pinnacle acquisition in 2011, UniTek had limited experience with contract accounting for long-
term construction-type contracts.   

       17.    FASB Accounting Standards Codification 605 (“ASC 605”) states that the POC 
methodology is one of two generally acceptable accounting methods for revenue recognition 
over long-term construction-type contracts.  The POC method recognizes income incrementally 
as progress is achieved toward contract completion using reasonably dependable estimates about 
the extent of progress toward completion, contract revenues and contract costs. 

       18.     Pursuant to GAAP, income is recognized as a percentage of estimated total 
income either (a) that incurred costs to date bear to estimated total costs after giving effect to 
estimates of costs to complete based on most recent information; or (b) that may be indicated by 
another measure of progress toward completion as may be appropriate based on work performed.  
See ASC 605-35-25-52.  When calculating progress toward completion, costs incurred that do 
not relate to contract performance are not included in calculating progress toward completion.  
These include the costs of items such as uninstalled materials not specifically produced or 
fabricated for the project or of subcontracts that have not been performed.  ASC 605-35-25-75.    

       19.    Using the POC method, UniTek applied the cost-to-cost method of measuring 
progress toward contract completion.  Pursuant to this method, progress (the percentage 
complete) is determined using cost input measures and involves dividing costs incurred to date 
for the contract by the total amount of costs expected to be incurred for the contract. The 
percentage completed figure is then multiplied by the total project revenue to compute revenue to 
date.  The difference between revenue to date and costs incurred to date is the profit earned to 
date. 

       20.    UniTek’s internal accounting policy addressing its use of the cost-to-cost method 
stated that with respect to the wireless portion of the Engineering and Construction Segment, 
which included Pinnacle, “revenue from infrastructure equipment construction and installation 
contracts is recorded under the percentage of completion method based on the percentage that 
total direct costs incurred to date bear to estimated total costs at completion.”  The policy for 
revenue recognition stated “revenue is recognized on a percentage of completion basis based on 
costs incurred and invoiced upon completion of the job.  Revenue is recorded as Unbilled AR 
until invoiced.”     

       21.    Contract costs generally include all direct costs, such as materials, direct labor and 
subcontracts, and indirect costs identifiable with or allocable to the contracts.  See ASC 605-35-
25-34.  Costs are recognized under a POC model in the period in which the acquired asset is used 

                                               6 
 
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 

                  5
to produce output.   ASC 605  -35-25-32 requires that contract costs be identified, estimated, and 
accumulated with a reasonable degree of accuracy in determining income earned.       GAAP 
requires that entities using the cost-to -cost method periodically review and confirm cost inputs 
using alternative measures that involve observation and ins  pection.  See ASC 605  -35-25-78.    

                                              FACTS 

                                 Premature Revenue Recognition 

       22.     In April 2011, UniTek acquired Pinnacle for an aggregate purchase price of up to 
$50.7 million, consisting of a base purchase price of $20.7 million in cash and UniTek securities 
and earn out payments up to $30.0 million in contingent consideration pursuant to the Asset 
Purchase Agreement (“Agreement”).  Under the terms of the Agreement, UniTek agreed to pay 
Pinnacle’s prior owners, including Hayford, additional compensation if the division met certain 
milestones.  Specifically, the Agreement provided that the owners would receive up to three 
separate earn-out payments in an amount not to exceed an aggregate of $30 million in cash and 
UniTek securities if they met performance milestones during the period April 3, 2011 to 
September 30, 2011, April 3, 2011 to March 31, 2012, and April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013.       

       23.     During the Relevant Period, Pinnacle provided internal forecasts estimating 
revenue for each quarter.  Because completion of the World Trade Center project was taking 
longer than anticipated, it became apparent to Hayford and Rothbaum that Pinnacle would not 
meet its late 2011 internal forecasts. 

       24.    Hayford approached Rothbaum and McClelland to discuss whether Pinnacle 
could recognize revenue based upon the receipt of an invoice from a subcontractor who had 
agreed to provide custom equipment for Pinnacle, but had not yet performed under the contract.  
Despite their inexperience with POC accounting, neither Rothbaum nor McClelland sought 
advice from experts on the issue.  Rothbaum, Pinnacle’s Controller, did not do any independent 
research on the topic nor did he review UniTek’s internal policies regarding revenue recognition.  
Instead, Rothbaum, who reported to McClelland, relied entirely upon McClelland, UniTek’s 
Chief Accounting Officer and Controller, for information on the topic.  McClelland did not 
consult with outside experts or conduct independent research and instead provided advice to 
Rothbaum that was vague and incorrect.  Rothbaum, in turn, provided that vague and incorrect 
advice to Hayford. 

       25.    McClelland told Rothbaum that it was acceptable to recognize revenue based 
upon the receipt of an invoice for goods or services that had not yet been delivered so long as the 
invoice “matched” the purchase order.  McClelland did not properly explain what this meant and 
Rothbaum did not seek clarification.  McClelland further advised Rothbaum that if goods are not 
received or shipped prior to the receipt of the invoice, Rothbaum needed to ensure the invoice 

                                                 
 

5
 See FASB Statement of Concepts 6, Elements of Financial Statements. 

                                                 7 
 
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 

followed the purchase order terms, the goods were not cancellable and the materials were 100% 
custom for the World Trade Center project.  Rothbaum told Hayford that to recognize revenue 
based upon receipt of the invoice, he needed to make sure the invoice stated “that the materials 
are for custom built equipment for the World Trade Center project.”  

       26.    Notwithstanding the guidance he received from McClelland and Rothbaum, 
Hayford knew or should have known that it was improper to recognize revenue based on the 
invoices because they contained inaccurate information about the value of goods delivered, 
payment terms, and quantity of work already completed.  In particular, it was unreasonable for 
Hayford to push for revenue recognition based on invoices that he knew: (a) inaccurately 
reflected that goods had already been shipped or services had already been performed; or (b) 
contained material terms that were inconsistent with the corresponding purchase orders.     

       27.    Based on this advice, beginning in late 2011, in certain instances, UniTek 
recorded costs as incurred for POC purposes upon receipt of invoices from subcontractors rather 
than basing recognition of costs properly upon the related goods being received or services 
rendered or upon the subcontractors incurring costs related to contract performance necessary to 
allow UniTek to recognize the associated revenue.  Hayford, Rothbaum, and other Pinnacle 
employees acting at their direction solicited invoices from six different subcontractors who were 
in the process of building equipment or providing services to the company in connection with the 
World Trade Center project.   

       28.    This had the effect of increasing the cost-to-cost percentage complete calculation 
and thus increased the revenue and resulting profit for UniTek’s Engineering and Construction 
segment each fiscal quarter.  Hayford and Rothbaum solicited these invoices knowing that not all 
of the billed costs were incurred by UniTek.  The invoices in question prematurely billed 
Pinnacle for amounts ranging from approximately $20,000 to $1.7 million.   

       29.    UniTek first recorded costs as incurred for POC purposes upon the receipt of an 
invoice rather than upon the goods or services themselves being provided in December 2011.  In 
this instance, Hayford requested the subcontractor issue an invoice for as much as possible 
almost immediately after entering into a purchase agreement.  No equipment had been shipped, 
and the subcontractor had not yet provided any services or incurred any costs.  UniTek 
improperly recognized revenue of approximately $860,000 in the fourth quarter of 2011 based 
upon the receipt of this invoice.   

       30.    On March 27, 2012, after additional requests from Hayford and another Pinnacle 
employee, this same subcontractor issued Pinnacle an invoice for approximately $310,000 
despite only having shipped approximately $166,000 worth of equipment to Pinnacle.  UniTek 
improperly recognized revenue of over $225,000 for the first quarter of 2012 based on this 
invoice.   

       31.    Further, Hayford knew or should have known that the invoices from this 
subcontractor were inaccurate because the first invoice incorrectly stated that all equipment had 
been delivered when it had not, and the second invoice over-reported the amount of equipment 
that had been delivered.  Despite these inaccuracies and the difficulties with identifying original 

                                               8 
 
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

 

purchase order terms, Hayford did not seek clarifying information about whether inaccurate 
invoices could be relied upon for purposes of POC accounting.  

       32.    On several other occasions during the first three quarters of 2012, upon the 
request of Hayford, Rothbaum and/or other Pinnacle employees, subcontractors issued invoices 
to Pinnacle for dollar amounts in excess of the value of equipment provided to the company or 
greater than Pinnacle was then obligated to pay.   

       33.    For example, in the first quarter of 2012, Pinnacle hired a subcontractor to 
produce custom radio and communications equipment.  The purchase order for this equipment, 
dated February 15, 2012, included the following term:  “Request:  IMPORTANT NOTE:  SHIP 
DATE MARCH 26, 2012.”  The purchase order did not set forth a payment schedule or require 
Pinnacle to make any payments prior to delivery of equipment.  On March 12, 2012 this 
subcontractor notified Rothbaum, Hayford, and others that it would not be shipping all of the 
equipment by the “ship date” of March 26, or even the end of the month, i.e. end of the first 
quarter, and that only a partial shipment would be made by quarter-end.   

       34.    Hayford instructed a Pinnacle employee to request that the subcontractor issue an 
invoice for the full amount of the order.  On March 16, 2012, the subcontractor issued an invoice 
to Pinnacle for the full $345,690.  This invoice was premature because no equipment was 
shipped as of that date.  By month’s end, a partial delivery had been made, but not the full 
amount reported in the invoice.  As a result, UniTek improperly over-recognized revenue of 
approximately $200,000 for the first quarter of 2012 based on the inflated costs associated with 
this invoice.   

       35.    In another instance, a subcontractor retained to provide engineering services to 
Pinnacle in connection with the World Trade Center project issued invoices for services not yet 
completed.  Under the terms of the purchase order, dated March 1, 2012, Pinnacle agreed to pay 
the subcontractor on a bi-monthly basis for all engineering services provided.  The total costs to 
Pinnacle for the agreed upon services was $565,275.   

       36.    On May 25, 2012, the subcontractor issued an invoice to Pinnacle for $45,980; an 
amount purporting to represent $19,980 of engineering services provided in May and $26,000 of 
engineering services provided in June.  Although, over time, the subcontractor provided some 
services to Pinnacle, the portion of the invoice related to part of May and all of June should not 
have been recorded as a cost incurred for POC purposes since the services had not yet been 
provided.   

       37.    A Pinnacle employee acting at the direction of Hayford and Rothbaum instructed 
the subcontractor to issue invoices every month for as much as possible.  From June 2012 
through September 2012, Pinnacle received monthly invoices for $103,859 with each of the 
invoices seeking payment in advance for services to be performed the following month.  For 
example, the invoice issued July 27, 2012, stated it was for “August Office Engineering 
Services.”   

                                               9 
 
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

 

       38.    Respondents knew, or should have known, that the invoices created by the 
subcontractor were issued prematurely.  It was clear from the face of the invoices, which 
Rothbaum and McClelland reviewed, that the invoices were sent monthly rather than bi-monthly 
as agreed to, provided no detail about the work performed, were for future time periods, and 
were for an identical amount of money each month.  Further, Hayford and Rothbaum were told 
by Pinnacle staff that this subcontractor had not yet completed the services reflected on the 
invoices.  UniTek overstated revenue of more than $150,000 in the second quarter of 2012 and 
more than $350,000 in the third quarter of 2012 as a result of these invoices. 

                UniTek’s Public Filings Contained Material Misrepresentations 

       39.    Because UniTek prematurely recognized revenue, its quarterly and annual reports 
with the Commission contained material misrepresentations regarding the financial performance 
of the Engineering and Construction segment, which included Pinnacle.  The Engineering and 
Construction segment represented 33% of UniTek’s fiscal year 2011 reported revenue and 30% 
of UniTek’s fiscal year 2012 reported revenue.  The Engineering and Construction segment 
played a significant role in UniTek’s operations and profitability.   

       40.    On March 7, 2012, UniTek filed its Form 10-K with the Commission which 
incorporated the 2011 fourth quarter results.  In its filing, UniTek included revenue from the 
Engineering and Construction segment of approximately $143 million for the 2011 fiscal year of 
which nearly $40 million related to revenue from the Engineering and Construction segment for 
the last quarter of 2011.  As a result of the conduct described herein, this figure over-reported the 
segment’s quarterly revenues by 2.2%.  Further, UniTek under-reported the Engineering and 
Construction segment’s quarterly losses by 4.9%. 

       41.    UniTek filed its Q1 2012 Form 10-Q with the Commission on May 9, 2012.  In its 
filing, UniTek reported revenue of approximately $38 million from the Engineering and 
Construction segment.  As a result of the conduct described herein, this figure over-reported the 
segment’s quarterly revenues by 10.3%.  Further, UniTek under-reported the segment’s quarterly 
losses by 38.9%. 

       42.    UniTek filed its Q2 2012 Form 10-Q with the Commission on August 8, 2012. In 
its filing, UniTek reported revenue of approximately $43.5 million from the Engineering and 
Construction segment.  As a result of the conduct described herein, this figure over-reported the 
segment’s quarterly revenues by 4.6%.  Further, UniTek under-reported the segment’s quarterly 
losses by 224.9%. 

       43.    UniTek filed its Q3 2012 Form 10-Q with the Commission on November 8, 2012. 
In its filing, UniTek reported revenue of approximately $47.5 million from the Engineering and 
Construction segment.  As a result of the conduct described herein, this figure over-reported the 
segment’s quarterly revenues by 7.2%.  Further, UniTek overstated the segment’s quarterly 
income by 73.4%. 

                                                

                                                
                                              10 
 
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

 

                    UniTek’s Lax Internal Accounting Control Environment 

       44.    During the Relevant Period, UniTek had material weaknesses in its internal 
control over financial reporting that compromised the company’s ability to prevent or detect 
material misstatements of revenue and earnings on both a reportable segment and consolidated 
basis.  Specifically, UniTek lacked the sufficiently trained accounting personnel necessary to 
ensure that revenue was appropriately recognized. 

       45.    With respect to the POC method of accounting, UniTek failed to implement 
alternative measures involving observation or inspection to periodically review and confirm cost 
inputs.  Neither UniTek nor Pinnacle had controls in place to verify cost inputs by validating the 
receipt of goods and services invoiced by subcontractors or that the subcontractors had incurred 
the costs necessary to allow UniTek to recognize the associated revenue.   

       46.    UniTek also lacked the internal accounting controls necessary to track when 
modifications to Pinnacle purchase orders were made and determine which version of the 
purchase orders were final for purposes of determining UniTek’s costs incurred.  In addition, 
UniTek lacked internal accounting controls necessary to ensure that payment terms included on 
the purchase orders were clear and ascertainable.  In fact, many of Pinnacle’s purchase orders 
were vague and unclear as to when the company would become financially liable to its 
subcontractors.  Several purchase orders, for example, included billing milestones and payment 
terms that were inconsistent and ambiguous. 

       47.    Further, purchase orders and invoices relevant to the World Trade Center project 
were stored on an internal database maintained by Pinnacle employees.  Although the terms of 
purchase orders - including quantities ordered, delivery terms, and payment dates - were 
modified by the parties over time, the internal database recorded the amended purchase orders 
using the same date and purchase order number.  Accordingly, the database contained multiple 
versions of identically dated purchase orders such that users were unable to determine when 
change orders had taken place and which version of the purchase order was the most current.  
Because UniTek and Pinnacle lacked policies or procedures to track the change order process 
and maintain control over its purchase orders, the company’s employees were unable to identify 
and confirm the final terms of the purchase order.     

           Respondents Caused UniTek’s Failure to Devise and Maintain a Sufficient 
                            System of Internal Accounting Controls 

       48.    As Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller, McClelland was 
responsible for ensuring that he and his staff were adequately trained in revenue recognition, 
including the POC method.  Similarly, Rothbaum, as Pinnacle’s Controller, was responsible for 
ensuring that he was adequately trained in revenue recognition, including the POC method. 

       49.    McClelland was also responsible for the accuracy of UniTek’s financial 
statements, and for establishing and maintaining its internal accounting control environment.  
McClelland, however, relied on Hayford and Rothbaum, and failed to ensure that the company 
properly recorded revenue in compliance with GAAP.  McClelland also failed to implement 

                                              11 
 
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

 

sufficient internal accounting controls related to revenue recognition, notwithstanding his 
awareness that Rothbaum was inexperienced in the POC method of accounting and that Hayford 
had an incentive to prematurely recognize revenue. 

       50.    Rothbaum, as Pinnacle’s Controller, was responsible for completing entries in 
Pinnacle’s general ledger, which tracked costs that could impact revenue recognition at the 
Pinnacle division and result in inaccurate financial statements filed by UniTek.  In addition, 
Rothbaum was responsible for preparing the POC Checklist and POC Report, both of which 
were reviewed by McClelland, and used by Rothbaum for completing the POC method 
calculations.  The POC Checklist, which functioned as an internal control, included a list of tasks 
to be completed monthly to track costs incurred, calculate progress completed and compute 
revenue for the period.  For example, the POC Checklist required Rothbaum to review purchase 
orders or signed contracts with subcontractors to determine whether UniTek could recognize 
revenue based on costs incurred.    

       51.    Rothbaum was aware that purchase order issues existed at Pinnacle that prevented 
personnel from tracking change orders and confirming final contract terms.  Rothbaum was also 
aware purchase orders were vague, incomplete, and often drafts.  Accordingly, Rothbaum knew 
or should have known that Pinnacle could not reliably identify whether costs had been incurred 
upon which UniTek could recognize revenue and that the POC Checklist was therefore 
inherently flawed and could not satisfy its control objective.  The POC Report, also an internal 
control, was a spreadsheet Rothbaum maintained to track costs and associated revenue.  Because 
of the aforementioned change order tracking and purchase order issues and Rothbaum’s 
inexperience in the POC method of accounting, Rothbaum and McClelland knew or should have 
known that the POC Report was also inherently flawed and could not satisfy its control 
objective.  

       52.    Hayford, as Division President, was responsible for negotiating and approving 
purchase orders and, at times, solicited premature invoices from Pinnacle’s subcontractors.  
Hayford, like Rothbaum, was aware that final purchase orders were not easily identifiable within 
the database, and that the payment terms identified in the purchase orders were often vague.  
Further, Hayford knew that Rothbaum prepared the POC Checklist and POC Report based on 
incomplete information saved on the database.  Thus, Hayford should have known that the POC 
Checklist and POC Report could not satisfy their control objectives.    

       53.    Rothbaum and Hayford executed quarterly sub-certifications during the Relevant 
Period attesting that “adequate controls are in place and operating effectively for us to certify 
that the revenue and EBITDA reported for the quarter are accurate representation of the 
operations of the business” despite knowing, for example, that purchase orders were not 
accurately tracked and maintained as they should have been and that UniTek and/or Pinnacle 
otherwise lacked the information necessary to identify, estimate, and accumulate costs with a 
reasonable degree of accuracy for, among other things, purposes of revenue recognition under 
the POC method of accounting. 

                                                

                                              12 
 
 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

 

Respondents Caused UniTek’s Failure to Make and Keep Fair and Accurate Books and Records 

       54.    During the Relevant Period, Respondents caused UniTek’s failure to maintain fair 
and accurate books and records related to the POC method of accounting.  Respondents were 
responsible for ensuring that all POC method revenue calculations and associated accounting 
entries were appropriately performed, documented, and recorded.  Hayford and Rothbaum 
solicited invoices that they knew did not accurately reflect timing of when the goods and services 
were provided by the relevant subcontractors or when UniTek was obligated to pay the 
associated costs, which led to the improper recording of revenue under GAAP.   

       55.    Respondents were responsible for maintaining accurate records of transactions 
with subcontractors and ensuring that the POC schedule was being properly maintained.  They 
failed to maintain adequate records demonstrating that: (a) services had been provided by a 
subcontractor; (b) materials related to the World Trade Center project had been shipped; or (c) 
UniTek had otherwise incurred costs related to the World Trade Center project.   

       56.    As a result of the conduct described above, Hayford, Rothbaum, and McClelland 
caused UniTek’s reporting, record keeping, and internal accounting controls violations. 

UniTek Registered the Offering of UniTek Shares Previously Issued to Hayford and Others  

       57.    During the relevant period, UniTek filed a registration statement on Form S-3 to 
register the offering of UniTek shares previously issued to Hayford and others.  The registration 
statement incorporated certain filings, including, but not limited to, UniTek’s 2011 Form 10-K 
and 2012 Form 10-Qs, which materially over-reported UniTek’s earnings and revenue.  

                                          VIOLATIONS 

       58.    As a result of the conduct described above, Hayford violated Securities Act 
Section 17(a)(3), Exchange Act Section 13(b)(5), and Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1, and caused 
UniTek to violate Exchange Act Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) and Rules 12b-20, 
13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder. 

                                                                                   6
       59.    As a result of the conduct described above, McClelland willfully       violated 
Securities Act Section 17(a)(3), and  Exchange Act   Rule  13b2 -1, and caused  UniTek   to violate 
Exchange Act Sections   13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) and Rules 12b    -20, 13a  -1  and  13a -13 
thereunder. 

                                                  
 

6
          A willful violation of the securities laws means merely “‘that the person charged with the duty knows what 
he is doing.’” Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000) (quoting Hughes v. SEC, 174 F.2d 969, 977 
(D.C. Cir. 1949)). There is no requirement that the actor “‘also be aware that he is violating one of the Rules or 
Acts.’” Id. (quoting Gearhart & Otis, Inc. v. SEC, 348 F.2d 798, 803 (D.C. Cir. 1965)).   

                                                 13 
 
 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

 

       60.    As a result of the conduct described above, Rothbaum willfully violated Securities 
Act Section 17(a)(3), Exchange Act Section 13(b)(5), and Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1, and 
caused UniTek to violate Exchange Act Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) and Rules 
12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder. 

       61.    As a result of the conduct described above, McClelland and Rothbaum willfully 
violated the federal securities laws or rules and regulations thereunder pursuant to Section 4C of 
the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest 
to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A 
of the Securities Act, Sections 4C and 21C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, it is hereby ORDERED that: 

              A.     Respondents Hayford, Rothbaum and McClelland cease and desist from 
       committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 17(a)(3) of the 
       Securities Act, Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and (B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-
       20, 13a-1, 13a-13, and 13b2-1 thereunder; and Respondents Hayford and Rothbaum 
       further cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future 
       violations of Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act.  

              B.     Respondent Hayford shall, within ten (10) days of the entry of this Order, 
       pay disgorgement of $35,000 and prejudgment interest in the amount of $3,500, to the 
       Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States 
       Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). Respondent Hayford shall pay a 
       civil penalty of $125,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Payment of the 
       civil penalty shall be made in the following installments:  one installment of $50,000 due 
       within 10 days of the entry of this Order, and then three installments of $25,000 each plus 
       post-judgment interest calculated in accordance with 28 U.S.C §1961(a) due within 90, 
       180, and 270 days of the date of the entry of this Order.  If any payment is not made by 
       the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire outstanding balance of 
       disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and civil penalties, plus any additional interest 
       accrued pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600 and/or 31 U.S.C. §3717, shall be due and 
       payable immediately, without further application.    

              C.     Respondent McClelland shall pay a civil money penalty in the amount of 
       $75,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of 
       the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). Payment shall be 
       made in the following installments:  one installment of $25,000 due within 10 days of the 
       entry of this Order, and then two installments of $25,000 each plus post-judgment interest 
       calculated in accordance with 28 U.S.C §1961(a) due within 120, and 240 days of the 
       date of the entry of this Order.  If any payment is not made by the date the payment is 
       required by this Order, the entire outstanding balance of civil penalties, plus any 

                                               14 
 
 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

 

       additional interest accrued pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717, shall be due and payable 
       immediately, without further application.  

              D.     Respondent Rothbaum shall, within ten (10) days of the entry of this 
       Order, pay a civil money penalty in the amount of $25,000, to the Securities and 
       Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, 
       subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If payment of this civil penalty is not timely 
       made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717. 

       Payment must be made in one of the following ways:  

              1.     Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, 
                     which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon 
                     request;  

              2.     Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                     through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  

              3.     Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                     States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                     Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  

                     Enterprise Services Center  
                     Accounts Receivable Branch  
                     HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341  
                     6500 South MacArthur Boulevard  
                     Oklahoma City, OK 73169 

              Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter 
       identifying Respondent as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of 
       these proceedings. A copy of the cover letter and check or money order, or 
       documentation of whatever other form of payment is used, must be simultaneously sent 
       to G. Jeffrey Boujoukos, Regional Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and 
       Exchange Commission, 1617 JFK Boulevard, Suite 520, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
       19103. 

              E.     Pursuant to Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the 
       Commission’s Rules of Practice, Respondent McClelland is denied the privilege of 
       appearing and practicing before the Commission as an accountant. 

                     1.     After three (3) years from the date of this Order, Respondent 
              McClelland may request that the Commission consider his reinstatement by 
              submitting an application (Attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume 
              appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

                             a.  a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the 
                                preparation or review, of any public company’s financial 

                                              15 
 
 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

 

                                 statements that are filed with the Commission (other than as a 
                                 member of an audit committee, as that term is defined in 
                                 Section 3(a)(58) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934).  
                                 Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                                 Respondent McClelland’s work in his practice before the 
                                 Commission as an accountant will be reviewed either by the 
                                 independent audit committee of the public company for which 
                                 he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he 
                                 practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 

                             b.  a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the 
                                 preparation or review, of any public company’s financial 
                                 statements that are filed with the Commission as a member of 
                                 an audit committee, as that term is defined in Section 3(a)(58) 
                                 of the Securities Act of 1934.  Such an application will be 
                                 considered on a facts and circumstances basis with respect to 
                                 such membership, and the applicant’s burden of demonstrating 
                                 good cause for reinstatement will be particularly high given the 
                                 role of the audit committee in financial and accounting matters; 
                                 and/or 

                             c.  An independent accountant.  Such application must satisfy the 
                                 Commission that: 

                                 (1) Respondent McClelland, or the public accounting firm with 
                                     which he is associated, is registered with the Public 
                                     Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
                                     accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such 
                                     registration continues to be effective;  

                                 (2) Respondent McClelland, or the registered public 
                                     accounting firm with which he is associated, has been 
                                     inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify 
                                     any criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent’s or 
                                     the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that 
                                     the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision;  

                                 (3) Respondent McClelland has resolved all disciplinary issues 
                                     with the Board, and has complied with all terms and 
                                     conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other 
                                     than reinstatement by the Commission); and  

                                 (4) Respondent McClelland acknowledges his responsibility, 
                                     as long as Respondent McClelland appears or practices 
                                     before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
                                     comply with all requirements of the Commission and the 

                                               16 
 
 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

 

                                     Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
                                     relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner 
                                     reviews and quality control standards. 

                      2.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent 
              McClelland to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission provided 
              that his state CPA license is current and he has resolved all other disciplinary 
              issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, if state 
              licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
              consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may 
              include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other 
              matters relating to Respondent McClelland’s character, integrity, professional 
              conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission as an 
              accountant.  Whether an application demonstrates good cause will be considered 
              on a facts and circumstances basis with due regard for protecting the integrity of 
              the Commission’s processes. 

              F.     Pursuant to Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the 
       Commission’s Rules of Practice, Respondent Rothbaum is denied the privilege of 
       appearing and practicing before the Commission as an accountant. 

                      1.     After three (3) years from the date of this Order, Respondent 
              Rothbaum may request that the Commission consider his reinstatement by 
              submitting an application (Attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume 
              appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

                             a.  a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the 
                                 preparation or review, of any public company’s financial 
                                 statements that are filed with the Commission (other than as a 
                                 member of an audit committee, as that term is defined in 
                                 Section 3(a)(58) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934).  
                                 Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                                 Respondent Rothbaum’s work in his practice before the 
                                 Commission as an accountant will be reviewed either by the 
                                 independent audit committee of the public company for which 
                                 he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he 
                                 practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 

                             b.  a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the 
                                 preparation or review, of any public company’s financial 
                                 statements that are filed with the Commission as a member of 
                                 an audit committee, as that term is defined in Section 3(a)(58) 
                                 of the Securities Act of 1934.  Such an application will be 
                                 considered on a facts and circumstances basis with respect to 
                                 such membership, and the applicant’s burden of demonstrating 
                                 good cause for reinstatement will be particularly high given the 

                                               17 
 
 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

 

                                 role of the audit committee in financial and accounting matters; 
                                 and/or 

                             c.  An independent accountant.  Such application must satisfy the 
                                 Commission that: 

                                 (1) Respondent Rothbaum, or the public accounting firm with 
                                     which he is associated, is registered with the Public 
                                     Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
                                     accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such 
                                     registration continues to be effective;  

                                 (2) Respondent Rothbaum, or the registered public accounting 
                                     firm with which he is associated, has been inspected by the 
                                     Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of 
                                     or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality 
                                     control system that would indicate that the respondent will 
                                     not receive appropriate supervision;  

                                 (3) Respondent Rothbaum has resolved all disciplinary issues 
                                     with the Board, and has complied with all terms and 
                                     conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other 
                                     than reinstatement by the Commission); and  

                                 (4) Respondent Rothbaum acknowledges his responsibility, as 
                                     long as Respondent Rothbaum appears or practices before 
                                     the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply 
                                     with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, 
                                     including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to 
                                     registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and 
                                     quality control standards. 

                      2.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent 
              Rothbaum to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that 
              his state CPA license is current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues 
              with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, if state licensure is 
              dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an 
              application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include 
              consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters 
              relating to Respondent Rothbaum’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or 
              qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission as an accountant.  
              Whether an application demonstrates good cause will be considered on a facts and 
              circumstances basis with due regard for protecting the integrity of the 
              Commission’s processes. 

                                               18 
 
 
---------------------Page 19---------------------

 

               G.     Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this 
       Order shall be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all 
       tax purposes. To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that 
       in any Related Investor Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall 
       they benefit by, offset or reduction of any award of compensatory damages by the 
       amount of any part of Respondents’ payment of a civil penalty in this action (“Penalty 
       Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, 
       Respondents agree that they shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting the 
       Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the 
       Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be 
       deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the 
       civil penalty imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related 
       Investor Action” means a private damages action brought against any Respondent by or 
       on behalf of one or more investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the 
       Order instituted by the Commission in this proceeding. 

                                               V. 

       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in 
Section 523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and 
admitted by Respondents Hayford, McClelland, and Rothbaum, and further, any debt for civil 
penalty or other amounts due by each of the aforementioned Respondents under this Order or 
any other judgment, order, consent order, decree or settlement agreement entered in connection 
with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by said Respondents of the federal securities laws 
or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the 
Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 

       By the Commission. 

        

        

                                             Brent J. Fields 
                                             Secretary 

                                               19 
 
 
