---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                         Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 10242 / October 31, 2016 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 79196 / October 31, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3821 / October 31, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17654 
                                                      ORDER INSTITUTING  PUBLIC 
In the Matter of                                      ADMINISTRATIVE A ND CEASE-AND-
                                                      DESIST PROCEEDINGS  PURSUANT 
       DOMENICK  F. CONSOLO, CPA                      TO SECTION 8A OF THE 
       AND PKF O’CONNOR DAVIES,              SECURITIES ACT  OF 1933 AND 
                                                   SECTIONS 4C AND 21 C OF THE 
                                                      SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 
                                                      1934, AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                       COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                      
                                                                   
                                                                                              
                                                 

                                              

       The Securities  and Exchange  Commission  (“Commission”)  deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative  and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, 
instituted  against Domenick  F. Consolo (“Consolo”) and PKF O’Connor Davies, LLP (“O’Connor 
Davies”)  (collectively  “Respondents”)  pursuant to Sections 8A of the Securities  Act of 1933 
                             1
(“Securities  Act”), Sections 4C  and 21C of the Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934 (“Exchange 
                                                               2
Act”), and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii)  of the Commission’s  Rules of Practice. 

                                                   
1
       Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission  may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently,   
              to any person the privilege  of appearing or practicing before the Commission in  
              any way, if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications  to 
              represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character or integrity,  or to have engaged in 
              unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully  violated, or willfully 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                   II. 

        In anticipation  of the institution  of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted  Offers 
of Settlement  (the “Offers”),  which the Commission  has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission,  or to which  the Commission  is a party, and without  admitting  or denying  the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s  jurisdiction  over them and the subject matter of these 
proceedings,  which are admitted,  Respondents consent to the entry of this Order, as set forth 
below. 

                                                  III. 

                                                                                      3
        On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission  finds       that: 

A.      SUMMARY 

        1.      O’Connor Davies was the independent auditor for the Town of Ramapo, New York 
(the “Town”)  and the Ramapo Local Development  Corporation (the “RLDC,” and collectively 
with the Town, “Ramapo”)  for fiscal  years ended December 31, 2009 through December 31, 2014.  
Consolo was the audit partner responsible for the audits during  that period.  In that capacity, 
Respondents issued audit reports for these fiscal  years stating that the Town’s and the RLDC’s 
financial  statements were presented fairly,  in all material  respects, in conformity  with generally 
                                            4
accepted accounting  principles  (“GAAP”)   and that the audits were performed in accordance with 
generally  accepted auditing  standards (“GAAS”).   These statements were false in that the financial 
statements were not fairly  presented in all material  respects in accordance with GAAP and the 
audits were not performed in accordance with GAAS. 

        2.      Respondents knew or should have known that the audit reports were or would be 
incorporated in municipal  securities  offering  documents  by the Town and the RLDC.  Between 

                                                                                                                                                             
                aided and abetted the violation  of, any provision  of the securities laws or the rules and 
                regulations thereunder. 
                 
2
        Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
                The Commission  may censure a person or deny, temporarily  or permanently, the 
                privilege  of appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have 
                engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct. 

3
        The findings  herein are made pursuant to Respondent s’ Offers of Settlement and are not 
binding  on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

4
       As disclosed in Ramapo’s financial statements, the Governmental Accounting Standards Board 
(“GASB”) is the accepted standard setting board for establishing governmental accounting and financial 
reporting principles. 

                                                    2 
                                                     
---------------------Page 3---------------------

2010 and 2015, Ramapo raised approximately  $300 million  from investors  (including  about $85 
million  in “new money”  issuances and the balance in refundings  of existing  debt) pursuant to 16 
securities  offerings,  the official  statements for which contained Respondents’ then most recent 
audit reports. 

       3.      Between 2010 and 2011, four official  statements contained the Town’s fiscal  year 
(“FY”) 2009 financial  statements.  These financial  statements  included  a $3,080,000 receivable in 
the Town’s primary  operating fund, called the General Fund, purportedly for a sale of land known 
as the “Hamlets”  to the RLDC.  While auditing  the financial  statements, Consolo learned that the 
alleged sale had not been completed.  Nevertheless, as discussed below, following  an inquiry  from 
a Town finance  department employee  as to whether to book the receivable, Consolo allowed it to 
be recorded.  The receivable represented approximately  75% of the Town’s FY 2009 General Fund 
balance. 

       4.      While auditing  the Town’s FY 2010 financial  statements  in or around April 2011, 
Consolo learned that the sale of the Hamlets, which  he had previously  been told would take place 
by December 2010, did not occur.  Nevertheless, Respondents issued unmodified  audit reports for 
the Town’s and the RLDC’s FY 2010 – FY 2014 financial  statements, which continued  to 
improperly  reflect the receivable  for the Hamlets sale as an asset in the Town’s General Fund and 
the Hamlets  land as an asset of the RLDC.  Without the receivable, the General Fund would have 
had a negative  balance in each of these fiscal  years. 

       5.      Consolo violated  applicable professional  standards by failing  to exercise due 
professional  care and skepticism  and to obtain sufficient  appropriate audit evidence  in connection 
with auditing  the $3,080,000 receivable as well as various other receivables, interfund  transfers, 
and liabilities  reported by the Town and the RLDC for FY 2009 – FY 2014. 

       6.      Additionally,  while  auditing  the Town’s FY 2011 – FY 2013 financial  statements, 
Consolo failed  to appropriately respond when employees in the Town’s finance  department  either 
expressed concerns concerning  the propriety of the financial  statements  or declined to complete a 
fraud questionnaire. 

       7.      Beginning  in May 2013, senior management  at O’Connor Davies learned that 
Ramapo’s financial  statements were the subject of investigations  by the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation,  the United States Attorney for the Southern of District  of New York, and the 
Commission  and that the $3,080,000 receivable was a focus of their  respective inquiries.  
However, O’Connor Davies failed to appropriately  respond to the revelation  that the Ramapo 
engagements  presented a heightened  risk of fraud.  Subsequent to that revelation,  the firm  issued 
unmodified  audit reports for the Town’s FY 2012 – FY 2014 financial  statements, which  reflected 
inflated  General Fund balances as a result, among other things,  of continued recognition  of the 
$3,080,000 receivable.   The firm  also issued unmodified  audit reports for the RLDC’s FY 2012 – 
FY 2014 financial  statements, which continued  to improperly  reflect the Hamlets property as an 
RLDC asset. 

                                                 3 
                                                   
---------------------Page 4---------------------

B.     RESPONDENTS 

       8.      Consolo, age 61, of Yorktown Heights,  New York, is a Certified  Public Accountant 
(“CPA”) licensed to practice in New York.  Consolo has served as an accountant  of O’Connor 
Davies  and its predecessors since 1979.  Consolo served as the O’Connor Davies engagement 
partner on, and had final  audit responsibility  over, the Town and RLDC engagements  from FY 
2009 through  FY 2014.  He has also acted as a quality  control reviewer for O’Connor Davies  on 
other municipal  audits. 

       9.      O’Connor Davies is a PCAOB-registered public accounting  firm  with its 
headquarters in Harrison, New York.  The conduct at issue occurred in the course of audits of the 
Town and the RLDC, clients  of the firm’s  municipal  practice.   

C.     OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES 

       10.    The Town is an incorporated municipal  government  in Rockland County, New 
York.  The Town is governed by an elected five member board, including  a supervisor whose 
function  is akin to a mayor. 

       11.    The RLDC is a not-for-profit corporation established in 2008 for the purpose of 
engaging  in development projects within  the Town.  The RLDC is a component unit of the Town, 
but operates independently  of the Town.  During the relevant period, the president of the RLDC was 
the Town’s supervisor. 

D.     FACTS 

       The Securities Offerings and the Audit Reports 

       12.    Between September 2010 and September 2015, the Town conducted 14 municipal 
securities offerings.   During  the same period, the RLDC conducted two securities offerings,  which 
were guaranteed by the Town. 

       13.    The official  statements for the Town’s offerings  contained unmodified  audit reports 
accompanying  the Town’s financial  statements.  The official  statements for the RLDC’s offerings 
contained unmodified  audit reports accompanying  both the Town’s and the RLDC’s financial 
statements. 

       14.    Although  these official  statements disclosed that O’Connor Davies was “not 
associated” with their preparation, Consolo knew or should have known that the official  statements 
would include O’Connor Davies’ audit reports.  Consolo agreed, when possible, to complete the 
audits on a timetable  that would permit  the use of the audited financial  statements in connection 
with Ramapo’s offerings.   Consolo, on behalf of the firm,  also effectively  consented to inclusion  of 
the FY 2010 and FY 2012 audit reports in certain of Ramapo’s offering  documents. 

       15.    The audit reports stated in pertinent part, “We conducted our audit in accordance 
with auditing  standards generally  accepted in the United States of America . . . . In our opinion, the 

                                                4 
                                                  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

financial  statements . . . present fairly,  in all material  respects, the respective financial  position [of 
the Town/ the RLDC] in conformity  with accounting  principles  generally  accepted in the United 
States of America.” 

       16.    A summary  of the relevant offerings  and the audit reports contained therein is set out 
below: 

  Issuer       Official Statement Date       Issue Size (in millions)       Audit Report 
   Town                 09/21/10                      $12.0                     FY 09 
   Town                 10/27/10                      $06.7                     FY 09 
   Town                 12/07/10                      $20.4                     FY 09 
  RLDC                  04/15/11                      $25.0                     FY 09 
   Town                 06/01/11                      $15.0                     FY 10 
   Town                 09/27/11                      $14.2                     FY 10 
   Town                 11/30/11                      $19.9                     FY 10 
   Town                 05/24/12                      $15.0                     FY 10 
   Town                 09/21/12                      $22.0                     FY 11 
   Town                 11/28/12                      $19.3                     FY 11 
  RLDC                  02/07/13                      $25.0                     FY 11 
   Town                 04/05/13                      $12.2                     FY 11 
   Town                 05/24/13                      $31.2                     FY 11 
   Town                 05/21/14                      $35.7                     FY 12 
   Town                 05/19/15                      $33.3                     FY 14 
   Town                 09/11/15                      $13.4                     FY 14 
 
       17.    The audit reports contained in the offering  documents were signed by O’Connor 
Davies.  As engagement  partner, Consolo approved issuance of the audit reports. 

       18.    The FY 2009 – FY 2014 audit reports were also publicly  available  pursuant to 
continuing  disclosure agreements. 

       The General Fund 

       19.    The General Fund is the Town’s primary  operating fund.   Tax revenues and other 
receipts that are not allocated by law or contractual  agreement to another fund are accounted for in 
the General Fund. 
        
       20.    Financial  statements for governmental  funds, including  the General Fund, focus on 
near-term inflows  and outflows  of spendable resources.  As explained  in the Town’s financial 
statements, governmental  fund financial  statements were reported using  a current financial 
resources measurement  focus and a modified  accrual basis of accounting,  under which  revenues 
were recognized  as soon as they were both “measurable”  and “available”;  i.e., collectible  within 
the current period or soon enough thereafter to pay liabilities  of the current period.  According  to 

                                                 5 
                                                  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

the Town’s financial  statements, a 90 day availability  period was used for recognition  of most 
governmental  fund revenues. 
        
       21.    Consolo believed  that a decline in the reported General Fund balance may have 
resulted in a credit rating downgrade on Ramapo’s bonds, leading  investors to demand higher 
interest rates on the bonds. 
        
       22.    As of fiscal  year-end 2008, the Town reported a General Fund balance of 
$4,501,666.  However, revenues declined  following  the onset of the financial  crisis, resulting  in a 
decrease in the General Fund balance.  Beginning  in FY 2009, pressure on the Town’s finances 
also resulted from increased debt service payments stemming  from bonds issued to finance  various 
projects, including  the purchase of land for the construction  of a minor  league baseball stadium. 
        
       $3,080,000 Receivable 
        
       23.    In FY 2009, the Town recorded a $3,080,000 receivable as an asset in the General 
Fund, which was purportedly for a sale by the Town of the Hamlets  property, a 13.7-acre parcel of 
land, to the RLDC.  The receivable represented approximately  75% of the Town reported General 
Fund balance for FY 2009. 
        
       24.    While auditing  the FY 2009 financial  statements in April 2010, Consolo learned 
that the sale of the Hamlets was not expected to take place until  sometime  later in FY 2010.  As he 
acknowledged  to a colleague, “This  is going to be a real problem.  It’s not even close to a sale by 
December 31, 2009.” 

       25.    Nevertheless, Consolo allowed the recording of the $3,080,000 receivable  in the 
Town’s General Fund and the inclusion  of the Hamlets property as an asset of the RLDC in the FY 
2009 financial  statements.   The audit co-manager wrote in a contemporaneous  email  to a 
colleague,  “No one wants to give the ok for this, but Dom [Consolo] said go ahead and book it.” 

       26.    At the time of the FY 2009 audit, O’Connor Davies’ quality  control policies  and 
procedures required an independent  preissuance  review  of the Town’s financial  statements.  
However, the audit workpapers do not contain evidence that such a review was conducted of the 
Town’s FY 2009 audited financial  statements. 

       27.    While auditing  the Town’s FY 2010 financial  statements, Consolo learned that the 
sale of the Hamlets  still  had not occurred because a habitat for timber rattlesnakes, a threatened 
species, was located on the land.  That habitat called into question  the potential to develop the 
Hamlets.  Therefore, the Hamlets sale would not go forward.  

       28.    Nevertheless, for FY 2010 – FY 2014, the audit workpapers reflected the continued 
recognition  in the financial  statements  of a receivable in the General Fund for sale of the Hamlets 

                                                 6 
                                                   
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                                                                               5
to the RLDC and inclusion  of the Hamlets property as an asset of the RLDC.       In each such fiscal 
year, inclusion  of the receivable represented the difference  between the Town reporting a positive 
or a negative  General Fund balance.  

       29.     During  the FY 2010 audit, Consolo received false  representations from Town 
officials  that the Town would receive an identical  $3,080,000 from the RLDC during  the 2011 
calendar year pursuant to a reimbursement  agreement  executed in connection  with the transfer of 
an unrelated parcel of land that was to be the site of a housing  project (the “Housing  Project 
Land”). 

       30.    In relying  on the Town’s false representations  concerning  the RLDC’s intention 
and ability  to pay $3,080,000 and the Town’s continued  recognition  of the $3,080,000 receivable, 
Consolo ignored red flags.  For example,  Consolo knew that the Town’s FY 2009 financial 
statements had reported the Housing  Project Land as a donation to the RLDC.  Consolo also knew 
that, on its face, the reimbursement  agreement  relating  to the Housing  Project Land contained no 
reference to a $3,080,000 payment. 

       31.    Furthermore, Consolo was aware based on the terms of the reimbursement 
agreement  that any amount  possibly  to be paid by the RLDC in connection  with the Housing 
Project Land was undetermined  and contingent  on numerous  events, including  completion  of the 
Housing  Project, the repayment  of construction  loans, and the RLDC’s ability  to pay.  According 
to an audit workpaper prepared in connection  with the RLDC’s FY 2010 financial  statements,  the 
RLDC had “no intention”  of paying  $3,080,000 to the Town in the near future. 

       32.    It was improper to include  a receivable  based on the Housing  Project 
reimbursement  agreement in  the Town’s General Fund financial  statement, the focus of which was 
to provide information  on near-term inflows,  outflows  and balances of spendable resources. 

       33.    While  O’Connor Davies  required that the receivable be classified  as 
“nonspendable”  on the Town’s FY 2012 through  FY 2014 financial  statements, Consolo’s failure 
to consider the need for a restatement resulted in a continued  overstatement  of the total balance of 
the Town’s General Fund. 

       $314,000 Receivable 
        
       34.    While auditing  the Town’s FY 2010 financial  statements, Consolo learned that a 
new, $314,000 receivable  in the General Fund was recorded for a contemplated  – but 
unconsummated  – sale of property to a third-party also controlled by the Town’s supervisor.  
Consolo did not obtain sufficient  audit evidence to support inclusion  of the receivable,  which 
increased the General Fund balance by $314,000 as if the sale had taken place. 

 

                                                 
5
       In FY 2014, the receivable was reduced to $2,500,000. 

                                                   7 
                                                    
---------------------Page 8---------------------

       $743,338 Receivable 
        
       35.    While auditing  the Town’s FY 2012 financial  statements, Consolo learned that the 
General Fund included  a $743,338 receivable for federal reimbursement  aid relating  to Hurricane 
Sandy.   

       36.    Under GASB Statement No. 33, municipalities  that receive expenditure-driven 
grants, such as federal reimbursement  aid, “should  recognize  revenues in the period when all 
applicable  eligibility  requirements  have been met and the resources are available.”  (Emphasis  in 
original).   According to the GASB Comprehensive  Implementation  Guide applicable to the 
Town’s FY 2012 financial  statements,  the criterion  that revenues from expenditure-driven  grants 
“should  be recognized  when the expenditure  is made” is an “additional  requirement”  that does not 
substitute  for consideration  of whether or not the resources are available. 

       37.    Consolo verified  that the expenditures  associated with the $743,338 receivable  were 
made in FY 2012, such that the eligibility  requirement  had been satisfied.   Consolo also required 
documentation  that the $743,338 claim  had been approved by the federal government.   However, 
Consolo failed  to take sufficient  steps to assess the availability  of the $743,338.  In particular, 
while  the Town’s FY 2012 financial  statements disclosed, consistent  with GASB Statement No. 
33, that “revenues from [expenditure-driven]  Federal and State grants are accrued when the 
expenditure  is made,” the $743,338 was not collected within  the ninety  day availability  period that 
the Town disclosed was “used for revenue recognition  for all . . . governmental  fund revenues” 
other than property taxes.  Further, the audit workpapers did not document consideration  of an 
alternative  availability  period for expenditure-driven  grants.  

       Transfers from the Ambulance Fund to the General Fund 
        
       38.    Between FY 2009 and FY 2014, the Town used transfers from the Ambulance 
Fund to overstate the balance of the General Fund.   These interfund  transfers ranged between 
$1,280,000 and $2,410,960 each year, with a cumulative  impact on the General Fund balance of 
more than $12 million.   During  the audits, Consolo relied on a false representation from  Town 
management  that the Town’s Ambulance  Fund shared the same tax base with the General Fund. 

       39.    Beginning  during  the FY 2011 audit, employees in the Town’s finance  department 
raised concerns to the audit engagement  team relating  to the propriety of such interfund  transfers.  
Nevertheless,  Consolo continued  to rely on the Town official’s  representations  without 
corroborating  the composition  of the tax bases for the Ambulance  Fund and the General Fund, and 
O’Connor Davies’ workpapers do not include  documentation  of the auditor’s consideration  of that 
matter. 

       40.    In fact, the tax base from which  the General Fund monies were raised excluded 
clergy residences owned by religious  corporations, whereas the tax base from which  the 
Ambulance  Fund monies were raised included  such properties.  Therefore, the Ambulance  Fund 
had a different  tax base from the General Fund, and consistent with the state’s general municipal 
law, consideration  should have been given by the auditors whether  to require the Town to record 

                                                 8 
                                                   
---------------------Page 9---------------------

these advances from the Ambulance  Fund to the General Fund as loans (which require repayment 
with interest) rather than interfund  transfers (which  may be made without  repayment). 

       41.    Additionally,  between FY 2010 and FY 2014, interfund  receivables  recorded in the 
General Fund as “due from”  the Ambulance  Fund increased the reported fund balance of the 
General Fund by amounts  ranging  between $450,000 and $1,424,609 each year.  The interfund 
receivables  were recorded because the transfers  to the General Fund were in excess of the cash 
available  in the Ambulance  Fund.  Consolo improperly  did not obtain documentation  to support 
these interfund  receivables. 

       Unrecorded Liabilities 

       42.    Consolo failed  to identify  certain significant  liabilities  omitted from Ramapo’s FY 
2010 – FY 2014 financial  statements  by failing  to perform appropriate audit procedures. 

       43.    In particular,  while auditing  the RLDC’s FY 2010 financial  statements, the audit 
engagement  team sent out a third-party confirmation  request to attempt to obtain evidence 
regarding  the amount owed by the RLDC to its outside legal counsel.  The audit team did not 
receive a response and, in the absence of obtaining  the third party confirmation,  failed  to perform 
alternative  procedures to obtain sufficient  appropriate audit evidence for the amount of liabilities 
reported by the RLDC. 

       44.    In fact, the RLDC’s FY 2010 financial  statements, which were also incorporated 
into the Town’s financial  statements in summary  form, omitted a liability  in excess of $700,000 for 
fees owed to the outside legal  counsel.  Although  such fees would likely  have been capitalized  as 
construction  in progress such that reporting the liability  would not have had an impact on the 
RLDC’s reported net assets, the omission  resulted in a misrepresentation  of the RLDC’s liquidity 
and overall financial  condition. 

       45.     In addition, from at least FY 2011 through  FY 2014, the Town’s financial 
statements failed  to reflect a payable of at least $767,224, which was owed by the Town to an 
engineer  involved  in the construction  of a minor league baseball stadium.   Consolo failed  to obtain 
sufficient  audit evidence regarding  the completeness of liabilities  reported in the Town’s financial 
statements.    

       Fraud Concerns 
 
       46.    On multiple  occasions, Consolo failed  to adequately investigate  concerns regarding 
the propriety of the Town’s accounting  expressed by employees  in the Town’s finance  department 
as well as other O’Connor Davies professionals.   For example: 

               a.  In connection  with the FY 2011 audit, an accountant  in the Town’s finance 
                   department complained  to the audit engagement  team about fraud involving  the 
                   Town’s financial  statements, specifically  citing  the reporting  of a sale of land 
                   from the Town to the RLDC.  The employee also expressed concern regarding   

                                                  9 
                                                   
---------------------Page 10---------------------

                   fraud risk stemming  from “inappropriate  transactions  involving  [the Town’s 
                   governmental]  funds.”   Consolo did not adequately investigate  the employee’s 
                   concerns.   

               b.  In connection  with the FY 2012 audit, an audit manager informed  Consolo that 
                   another accountant employed in the Town’s finance  department refused to sign 
                   a fraud questionnaire.   Consolo failed  to discuss the concerns with the 
                   accountant or adequately investigate  her concerns. 

               c.  In connection  with the FY 2013 audit, the same accountant disclosed in a fraud 
                   questionnaire  that she had concerns regarding  interfund  transfers and an 
                   outstanding  receivable.  Consolo failed  to discuss the concerns with  the 
                   accountant  or adequately investigate  her concerns. 

        O’Connor Davies Executive Committee 

       47.    In May 2013, O’Connor Davies senior management,  consisting  of a five-member 
executive  committee,  learned that the FBI executed a search warrant at Ramapo Town Hall  and 
seized documents from the finance  department, including  correspondence with O’Connor Davies, 
relating  to the Town’s and the RLDC’s financial  statements. 

       48.    Senior management  was further  informed  that, in May 2013, the Commission 
requested that O’Connor Davies provide information  relating  to audits of the Town’s financial 
statements, including  documentation  relating  to the $3,080,000 receivable and to the calculation 
and reporting of deferred revenue. 

       49.    O’Connor Davies also notified  the Commission  staff that it received a grand jury 
subpoena, dated May 14, 2013, requesting  documents relating  to its audits of the Town’s and 
RLDC’s financial  statements  since FY 2009. 

       50.    In response to the revelation  of a heightened  fraud risk in connection  with 
Ramapo’s financial  statements  and the $3,080,000 receivable in particular,  O’Connor Davies  failed 
to take sufficient  and appropriate steps to mitigate  the risk of material  misstatements  in its audit 
reports.  In particular,  the Executive  Committee  determined,  following  a meeting  with the Ramapo 
audit team, that O’Connor Davies would require the Town to classify  the $3,080,000 receivable as 
“nonspendable.”   However, permitting  continued recognition  of the receivable resulted in an 
overstatement  of the total balance of the General Fund.  O’Connor Davies also did not implement 
enhanced quality  control procedures for the Ramapo engagements  and permitted Consolo to 
continue  as engagement  partner without  additional  supervisory  procedures or oversight. 

       51.    After O’Connor Davies senior management  became aware of the law enforcement 
investigations  relating  to Ramapo’s financial  statements, the firm  issued unmodified  audit reports 
for the Town’s and the RLDC’s FY 2012 – FY 2014 financial  statements, which  reported inflated 
General Fund balances and continued  to improperly  reflect the Hamlets as an asset of the RLDC. 

        
                                                 10 
                                                   
---------------------Page 11---------------------

E.     VIOLATIONS 

       52.    As a result of the conduct described above, Consolo violated Section 17(a)(1) of the 
Securities  Act, which prohibits  any person from employing  any device, scheme, or artifice  to 
defraud in the offer or sale of securities. 

       53.    As a result of the conduct described above, Consolo and O’Connor Davies violated 
Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities  Act, which prohibit  any person in the offer or sale 
of securities  from obtaining  money or property by means of any misstatement  or omission  of 
material  fact and engaging  in any transaction,  practice, or course of business which operates or 
would operate as a fraud or deceit upon the purchaser of such securities. 

       54.    As a result of the conduct described above, Consolo violated Section 10(b) of the 
Exchange  Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit  fraudulent  conduct in connection  with 
the purchase or sale of any security  involving:   a) the use of any device, scheme, or artifice  to 
defraud; b) the making  of material  misrepresentations  or omissions;  and c) any act, practice, or 
course of business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon any person. 

       55.    Section 4C of the Exchange  Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii)  of the Commission’s  Rules 
of Practice provide, in pertinent  part, that the Commission  may censure or deny, temporarily  or 
permanently,  the privilege  of appearing or practicing  before the Commission  to any person who is 
found by the Commission  to have engaged in improper professional  conduct.  Section 4C(b)(1) of 
the Exchange  Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(A) define improper professional  conduct” to include 
“intentional  or knowing  conduct, including  reckless conduct, that results in a violation  of 
applicable professional  standards.”  Section 4C(b)(2) and Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B) define improper 
professional  conduct to include  the following  two types of negligent  conduct (1) a single  instance 
of highly  unreasonable  conduct that results in a violation  of applicable professional  standards in 
circumstances  in which an accountant knows, or should know, that heightened  scrutiny  is 
warranted; or (2) repeated instances of unreasonable  conduct, each resulting  in a violation  of 
applicable professional  standards, that indicate  a lack of competence to practice before the 
Commission.   Respondents’ conduct failed  to comply with  the applicable professional  auditing 
standards: 

               a.  GAAS requires an auditor to “obtain sufficient  appropriate audit evidence . . . 
                                                                                             6
                   on which to base the auditor’s opinion”  (AU-C § 500.04/ AU § 326.01)        and to 
                   “design  and perform audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances 
                   for the purpose of obtaining  sufficient  appropriate audit evidence.”   (AU-C § 
                   500.06).  Respondents failed  to obtain sufficient  appropriate audit evidence for 
                   certain assets reported in the General Fund’s FY 2009 – FY 2014 financial 
                   statements, including  a $3,080,000 receivable (FY 2009 – FY 2013), a 

                                                 
6
       AU-C § 500 became effective for audits of fiscal years ending on or after December 15, 2012, 
superseding, but not changing in any significant respect, AU § 326.    
 

                                                  11 
                                                    
---------------------Page 12---------------------

                    $314,000 receivable (FY 2010), a $743,338 receivable (FY 2012), and 
                    interfund  balances between $450,000 and $1,424,609 reported as “due from” 
                    the Ambulance  Fund (FY 2010 – FY 2014).  Respondents similarly  failed  to 
                    obtain sufficient  appropriate audit evidence for certain assets and liabilities 
                    reported in the RLDC’s FY 2009 – FY 2014 financial  statements. 

                b.  Under GAAS, auditors must  also exercise appropriate professional  judgment 
                                                                                      7
                    and professional  skepticism.  (AU-C § 200.08/ AU § 230.08).         Professional 
                    skepticism  is defined as an attitude that includes  a questioning  mind and a 
                    critical  assessment of audit evidence. (AU - C § 200.14  / AU   §   230.07).   In 
                    addition, AU - C § 200.17 requires auditors to “plan and perform an audit with 
                    professional  skepticism, recognizing  that circumstances  may exist that cause the 
                    financial  statements to be materially  misstated.”   As discussed above, 
                    Respondents did not exercise the appropriate professional  judgment  when 
                    conducting  the audit and issuing  an opinion  on the Town’s and RLDC’s 
                    financial  statements for FY 2009 – FY 2014.  The expressions of concern by 
                    Town accounting  personnel, coupled with Respondents’ knowledge of the 
                    criminal  and civil  investigations  relating  to the Town’s financial  statements, 
                    should have caused Respondents to place greater emphasis on obtaining 
                    sufficient  appropriate audit evidence  regarding  General Fund assets.  
                    Respondents failed  to perform additional  audit procedures sufficient  to address 
                    those risks. 

                c.  GAAS requires that an auditor  should modify  its opinion  when it concludes that 
                    the financial  statements as a whole are materially  misstated or is unable to 
                    obtain sufficient  appropriate audit evidence to conclude that they are free from 
                                                                 8
                    material  misstatement.   (AU-C § 705.07).       Consolo approved the issuance of 
                    audit reports for FY 2009   – FY 2014 containing  unmodified  opinions.   
                    However, the Town’s financial  misstatements  materially  overstated the balance 
                    of its General Fund, and Respondents failed  to obtain sufficient  appropriate 
                    audit evidence for such balances.  As such, Respondents should not have issued 
                    an audit report containing  an unmodified  opinion. 

                d.  GAAS requires that, in auditing  financial  statements,  a firm  must  “establish  and 
                    maintain  effective  quality  control procedures to provide it with reasonable 
                    assurances that the firm  and its personnel comply with  professional  standards 
                    and applicable legal and regulatory  requirements  and that reports issued by the 

                                                 
7
        AU-C § 200 became effective for audits of fiscal years ending on or after December 15, 2012, 
superseding, but not substantially  changing in pertinent part, AU § 230. 
 
8
        AU-C § 705 became effective for audits of fiscal years ending on or after December 15, 2012, 
superseding, but not changing in any significant respect, AU § 508. 
 

                                                   12 
                                                      
---------------------Page 13---------------------

                                                                                           9
                   firm  are appropriate in the circumstances.   (AU-C §§ 220.03; 220.24).    
                   Although  O’Connor Davies established a system of quality  controls, as 
                   discussed above, the system failed to detect that the firm’s  personnel  did not 
                   comply  with  certain professional  standards in conducting  the FY 2012 –FY 
                   2014 audits  of the Town and the RLDC. 

       56.    As a result of the conduct described above, Consolo engaged in improper 
professional  conduct under Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) as defined 
in Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(A)  and Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)  of the Commission’s  Rules of Practice. 

       57.    As a result of the conduct described above, O’Connor Davies engaged in improper 
professional  conduct under Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii)  as defined 
in Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B) of the Commission’s  Rules of Practice.  

F.     UNDERTAKINGS 
 
       Consolo 
 
       58.     Municipal  Audit Partner Ban.  Consolo undertakes that he shall  not serve as the 
engagement  partner or engagement  quality  control reviewer  in connection with  any municipal  audit 
engagement  for a period of five years from the entry of this Order. 

       59.     Consolo undertakes that he shall certify  annually  on October 15, in writing, 
compliance  with the undertaking  set forth  in paragraph 58 above.  The certifications  shall identify 
the undertaking  and provide written  evidence of compliance  in the form of a narrative.   The 
Commission  staff may make reasonable requests for further evidence of compliance,  and Consolo 
agrees to provide such evidence.  The certifications  and supporting  material  shall be submitted  to 
Sanjay Wadhwa, Senior Associate Regional  Director, Division  of Enforcement,  Securities and 
Exchange  Commission,  Brookfield  Place, 200 Vesey Street, New York, NY 10281, with a copy to 
the Office of Chief Counsel of the Enforcement  Division,  by December 31 of each year through 
2021.   

       60.     Cooperation.  Consolo undertakes that he shall cooperate fully  with  the Commission 
in any and all  investigations,  litigations,  administrative  or other proceedings relating  to or arising 
from the matters described in this Order.  In connection with such investigations,  litigation, 
administrative  or other proceedings, Consolo agrees to the following:  (i) to produce, without service 
of a notice or subpoena, any and all documents and other materials  or information  as requested; (ii) 
to appear and testify  without service of a notice or subpoena in such investigations,  interviews, 
depositions, hearings  and trials, at such times and places as reasonably requested; and (iii)  to 
respond promptly to all inquiries. 

        

                                                 
9
       AU-C § 220 became effective for audits of fiscal years ending on or after December 15, 2012. 

                                                 13 
                                                    
---------------------Page 14---------------------

        O’Connor Davies 

       61.    O’Connor Davies Review.   Within  90 days after the entry of this Order, O’Connor 
Davies shall perform and complete a review and evaluation  (“O’Connor Davies Review”)  of the 
sufficiency  and adequacy of O’Connor Davies’ quality  controls regarding  the following 
(hereinafter  referred to as “O’Connor Davies’ Policies”):   

               a.  the exercise of due professional  care and professional  skepticism; 
                    
               b.  assessing the risk of fraud, including  appropriately responding  to identified 
                   fraud risks; 
        
               c.  evaluation  of evidence obtained concerning  matters that are the subject of 
                   written representations  from management  in order to consider the reliability  of 
                   the representations  made and whether reliance on management’s 
                   representations  is appropriate and justified; 
        
               d.  obtaining  sufficient  appropriate audit evidence; 
        
               e.  effective  supervision  by engagement  partners and managers, including  review 
                   of work performed by the engagement  team; 
        
               f.  audit documentation,  including  risk assessment procedures and responses, 
                   significant  findings  and resulting  actions, work paper sign-off,  archiving,  and 
                   dating; 
        
               g.  obtaining  reasonable assurance that i) the engagement  partner and other 
                   individuals  assisting  the engagement  partner in supervising  the engagement 
                   possess the competencies that are necessary and appropriate in the individual 
                   circumstances,  and ii) work is assigned to personnel having  the degree of 
                   technical  training  and proficiency  required in the circumstances;  and 
        
               h.  the effect of laws and regulations  in an audit of financial  statements.   

The O’Connor Davies Review  shall assess the foregoing  areas to determine  whether O’Connor 
Davies’ Policies are adequate and sufficient  to provide reasonable assurance of compliance  with  all 
relevant  professional  standards. 
 
       62.    O’Connor Davies Report.  Within  60 days of completing  the O’Connor Davies 
Review, O’Connor Davies shall  deliver to the Commission  staff a detailed written  report 
(“O’Connor Davies Report”) summarizing  its review and changes to O’Connor Davies’ Policies, if 
any, to provide reasonable assurance of compliance  with all relevant  professional  standards.  The 
O’Connor Davies Report shall identify  the undertaking,  provide written  evidence of compliance  in 
the form of a narrative,  and be supported by exhibits  sufficient  to demonstrate compliance.   The 

                                                 14 
                                                    
---------------------Page 15---------------------

Commission  staff may make reasonable requests for further evidence of compliance,  and 
O’Connor Davies agrees to provide such evidence. 

       63.    Independent Consultant’s  Review.  O’Connor Davies has undertaken to retain, 
within  150 days after entry of this Order, an independent  consultant  (“Independent  Consultant”), 
not unacceptable to the Commission  staff.  O’Connor Davies shall provide to the Commission  staff 
a copy of the engagement  letter detailing  the scope of the Independent Consultant’s 
responsibilities.   The Independent Consultant’s  compensation  and expenses shall be borne 
exclusively  by O’Connor Davies.  O’Connor Davies shall  deliver to the Independent Consultant 
the O’Connor Davies Report at the same time as O’Connor Davies provides such report to the 
Commission  staff as specified  in paragraph 62 above.  O’Connor Davies shall  require that the 
Independent Consultant perform a review (the “IC Review”)  of O’Connor Davies’ Policies to 
determine  whether O’Connor Davies’ Policies are adequate and sufficient  to provide reasonable 
assurance of compliance  with all relevant  professional  standards.  O’Connor Davies shall 
cooperate fully  with the Independent Consultant  and shall  provide reasonable access to firm 
personnel, information,  and records as the Independent Consultant  may reasonably  request for the 
IC Review, subject to O’Connor Davies’ right  to withhold  from disclosure any information  or 
records protected by any applicable  protection or privilege  such as the attorney-client  privilege  or 
the attorney work product doctrine. 

       64.    Independent Consultant’s  Report.  After the IC Review is completed, but no later 
than ninety  days after receiving  the O’Connor Davies Report, the Independent  Consultant  shall 
issue a detailed written report (the “IC Report”) to O’Connor Davies:  (a) summarizing  the IC 
Review; and (b) making  recommendations,  where appropriate, reasonably designed to ensure that 
O’Connor Davies’ Policies  are adequate and sufficient  to provide reasonable assurance of 
compliance  with all relevant  professional  standards.  O’Connor Davies shall require the 
Independent Consultant to provide a copy of the IC Report to the Commission  staff when the IC 
Report is issued. 

       65.    O’Connor Davies shall  adopt, as soon as practicable, all recommendations  of the 
Independent Consultant in the IC Report. 

       66.    Certification  by O’Connor Davies’ Managing  Partner.  Within  sixty  days of 
issuance of the IC Report, but no sooner than thirty  days after a copy of the IC Report is provided 
to the Commission  staff, O’Connor Davies’ managing  partner must certify  to the Commission  staff 
in writing  that (i) O’Connor Davies has adopted and has implemented  or will  implement  all 
recommendations  of the Independent Consultant,  if any; and (ii) the Independent Consultant  agrees 
with O’Connor Davies’ adoption and implementation  of the recommendations.   To the extent that 
O’Connor Davies has not implemented  all recommendations  of the Independent Consultant within 
sixty days of issuance of the IC Report, O’Connor Davies’ managing  partner must certify  to the 
Commission  staff in writing,  no later than thirty  days after their implementation,  that (i) O’Connor 
Davies has adopted and has implemented  all recommendations  of the Independent Consultant;  and 
(ii) the Independent Consultant  agrees that the recommendations  have been adequately adopted 
and implemented  by O’Connor Davies.  The certifications  by O’Connor Davies’ managing  partner 
shall identify  the undertakings,  provide written evidence of compliance  in the form of a narrative, 

                                                15 
                                                   
---------------------Page 16---------------------

and be supported by exhibits  sufficient  to demonstrate compliance.   The Commission  staff may 
make reasonable requests for further  evidence of compliance,  and O’Connor Davies agrees to 
provide such evidence. 

       67.     To ensure the independence  of the Independent Consultant, O’Connor Davies: (1): 
shall not have the authority to terminate  the Independent Consultant or substitute another 
independent compliance consultant  for the initial  Independent Consultant, without the prior written 
approval of the Commission  staff; and (2) shall compensate the Independent Consultant and persons 
engaged to assist the Independent Consultant  for services rendered pursuant to this Order at their 
reasonable and customary rates. 

       68.     O’Connor Davies  shall require the Independent Consultant to enter into an 
agreement that provides that, for the period of engagement  and for a period of two years from 
completion  of the engagement,  the Independent Consultant shall not enter into any employment, 
consultant, attorney-client,  auditing  or other professional  relationship  with O’Connor Davies, or any 
of its present or former affiliates,  directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity as 
such.  The agreement shall also provide that the Independent Consultant will  require that any firm 
with which he/she is affiliated  or of which he/she is a member, and any person engaged to assist the 
Independent Consultant in performance of his/her duties under this Order shall not, without prior 
written consent of the Division  of Enforcement,  enter into any employment,  consultant,  attorney-
client, auditing  or other professional  relationship  with O’Connor Davies, or any of its present or 
former affiliates,  directors, officers, employees or agents acting in their capacity as such for the 
period of the engagement  and for a period of two years after the engagement. 

       69.     O’Connor Davies shall not be in, and shall not have an attorney-client  relationship 
with the Independent Consultant and shall not seek to invoke the attorney-client  privilege  or any 
other doctrine or privilege  to prevent the Independent Consultant from transmitting  any information, 
reports, or documents to Commission  staff. 

       70.    Training.   By September 30, 2017, O’Connor Davies shall require each audit 
professional  then employed and that has been employed by O’Connor Davies for at least one year 
as of March 31, 2017 to complete successfully  a minimum  of 32 hours of audit-related training.   At 
least 16 such hours shall be devoted, collectively,  to the topics of (a) the importance of exercising 
due care and professional  skepticism  in evaluating  audit evidence  and (b) fraud prevention  and 
detection training.   In addition, at least 4 such hours shall be devoted to ethics and independence 
training. 
                    
       71.     Notice of Order.  Within  five  (5) days of the entry of this Order, O’Connor Davies 
shall  post prominently  on the “Government  Entity  Audits and Compliance”  and “Government  and 
Public Sector Government  Contracting”  sections of its website a summary  of this Order in a form 
and location acceptable to the Commission’s  staff, with  hyperlinks  to the entire  Order.  O’Connor 
Davies shall  maintain  these postings and hyperlinks  on its website until  the earlier of twelve (12) 
months from entry of this Order or the date of certification  by O’Connor Davies’ managing 
partner, pursuant to paragraph 66, that O’Connor Davies has adopted and has implemented  all 
recommendations  of the Independent Consultant. 

                                                 16 
                                                    
---------------------Page 17---------------------

       72.     By October 31, 2017, O’Connor Davies’  managing  partner shall certify, in writing, 
compliance  with the undertakings  set forth in paragraphs 67 – 71.  The certification  shall identify 
the undertakings,  provide written evidence of compliance in the form of a narrative, and be 
supported by exhibits sufficient  to demonstrate compliance.   The Commission  staff may make 
reasonable requests for further evidence of compliance, and O’Connor Davies agrees to provide 
such evidence. 

       73.     For a period of five years from the date of this Order, O’Connor Davies shall not 
assign Consolo to serve as the engagement  partner or engagement  quality  control reviewer on any 
municipal  audit and shall ensure that any work performed by Consolo regarding a municipal  audit is 
overseen by an engagement  partner or engagement  quality  control reviewer. 

       74.     All  reports and certifications  mentioned in these undertakings  shall be submitted to 
Sanjay Wadhwa, Senior Associate Regional  Director, Division  of Enforcement,  Securities and 
Exchange Commission,  Brookfield Place, 200 Vesey Street, New York, NY 10281, with a copy to 
the Office of Chief Counsel of the Enforcement  Division. 

       75.     For good cause shown, the Commission  staff may extend any of the procedural 
dates relating  to the undertakings.   Deadlines for procedural dates shall be counted in calendar days, 
except that if the last day falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the next business day shall be 
considered to be the last day. 

       76.     Cooperation.  O’Connor Davies  undertakes that it shall  cooperate fully  with the 
Commission  in any and all investigations,  litigations,  administrative  or other proceedings relating  to 
or arising  from the matters described in this Order.  In connection with such  cooperation, O’Connor 
Davies shall:  (i) produce, without  service of a notice or subpoena, any and all documents and other 
materials  information  as requested; (ii) use its best efforts to cause its present and former employees 
to appear and testify  without  service of a notice or subpoena in such investigations,  depositions, 
hearings or trials as may be requested; (iii)  use its best efforts to cause its present and former 
employees to be interviewed  at such times and places as reasonably requested; and (iv) respond 
promptly to all inquiries. 

       77.    In determining  whether to accept the Offers, the Commission  has considered 
Respondents’ undertakings. 
 
                                                 IV. 
                                                    
       In view of the foregoing,  the Commission  deems it appropriate and in the public interest  to 
impose the sanctions  agreed to in Respondents’  Offers. 
 
        Accordingly,  it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
        
 
 

                                                 17 
                                                    
---------------------Page 18---------------------

       Consolo 
 
       A.      Consolo shall  cease and desist from committing  or causing any violations  and any 
future violations  of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act, Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder; and 
Section 17(a) of the Securities Act. 
 
       B.      Consolo is denied the privilege  of appearing  or practicing  before the Commission 
as an accountant. 

       C.      Consolo shall  comply  with the undertaking  enumerated  in paragraph  58 above. 

       D.      Consolo shall,  within  14 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil  money  penalty 
of $75,000 to the Securities  and Exchange  Commission  for transfer  to the general  fund  of the 
United  States Treasury  in accordance with  Exchange  Act Section 21F(g)(3).  If timely  payment 
is not made, additional  interest  shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717.  Payment must be made 
in one of the following  ways:   

               (1)    Respondent  may transmit  payment  electronically  to the Commission, 
                      which  will  provide detailed  ACH transfer/Fedwire  instructions  upon 
                      request;   
                
               (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through  the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm;  or 

               (3)    Respondent may pay by certified  check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities  and Exchange 
                      Commission  and hand-delivered  or mailed  to:  

                      Enterprise Services Center 
                      Accounts Receivable  Branch 
                      HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                      6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                      Oklahoma City, OK 73169 

                      Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter 
                      identifying  Domenick Consolo as a Respondent in these proceedings, and 
                      the file  number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or 
                      money order must be sent to Sanjay Wadhwa, Senior Associate Regional 
                      Director, Securities  and Exchange  Commission,  Brookfield  Place, 200 
                      Vesey Street, Suite 400, New York, New York 10281.  
                                                  
       O’Connor Davies 

       E.     O’Connor Davies shall cease and desist from committing  or causing any violations 
and any future violations  of Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act. 

                                                18 
                                                  
---------------------Page 19---------------------

       F.     O’Connor Davies is censured. 

       G.     O’Connor Davies shall  comply  with the undertakings  enumerated  in paragraphs 
61 – 75 above. 

       H.     O’Connor Davies shall  pay disgorgement  of $355,600, plus prejudgment  interest 
thereon of $24,265. 

       I.      O’Connor Davies  shall  pay a civil  money  penalty  of $100,000. 

       J.      O’Connor Davies  shall  make the payments  required  by Sections IV.H and IV.I to 
the Securities  and Exchange  Commission  for transfer to the general  fund of the  United States 
Treasury  in accordance with  Exchange  Act Section 21F(g)(3).  If timely  payment  is not made, 
additional  interest shall  accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717 and SEC Rule of Practice 600.  
Payment must be made in one of the following  ways:   

               (1)    Respondent  may transmit  payment  electronically  to the Commission, 
                      which  will  provide detailed  ACH transfer/Fedwire  instructions  upon 
                      request;   
                
               (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through  the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm;  or 

               (3)    Respondent may pay by certified  check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities  and Exchange 
                      Commission  and hand-delivered  or mailed  to:  

                      Enterprise Services Center 
                      Accounts Receivable  Branch 
                      HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                      6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                      Oklahoma City, OK 73169 

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying  O’Connor 
Davies  as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of 
the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Sanjay Wadhwa, Senior Associate 
Regional  Director, Securities and Exchange  Commission,  Brookfield  Place, 200 Vesey Street, 
Suite 400, New York, New York 10281. 

       By the Commission. 

 
 
 
                                                    Brent J. Fields 
                                                    Secretary 

                                               19 
                                                  
