---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                      Before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 10211 / September 16, 2016 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 78864 / September 16, 2016 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3801 / September 16, 2016 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17546 

                                          ORDER INSTITUTING 
In the Matter of                            ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE -AND-
                                          DESIST PROCEEDINGS, PURSUANT TO 
      SCOTT M. DITTMAN, CPA,         SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT 
                                          OF 1933, SECTIONS 4C, 15(b) AND 21C OF 
Respondent. 
                                          THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 
 
                                          1934, AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
 
                                          COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE,
 
                                                            
                                                                                   
                                             
                                                       

                                          I.  

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in 
the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby 
are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Sections 
   1
4C, 15(b) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 
                                              2
102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice  against Scott M. Dittman (“Respondent”). 

                                                 
1
 Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  

             The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, 
             to any person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in 
             any way, if that person is found…(1) not to possess the requisite qualifications to 
             represent others…(2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to have engaged in 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

  
 

                                                  II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s 
jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and consents to the entry of this 
Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Pursuant to Section 8A of the 
Securities Act of 1933, Sections 4C, 15(b) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and 
Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order and Notice of Hearing (“Order”), as set forth below. 

                                                 III. 

                                                                                   3
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that: 

                                              Summary 

       From approximately April 2011 to May 2014 (the “relevant period”), Fusion Pharm, Inc. 
(“FSPM”), through its chief executive officer (“CEO”), president and sole director Scott M. 
Dittman, and its undisclosed de facto officer and control person William J. Sears, engaged in an 
approximately $12.2 million fraudulent scheme in violation of the registration and antifraud 
provisions of the federal securities laws.  The scheme essentially involved four steps.  First, 
utilizing backdated convertible notes and preferred FSPM stock, FSPM issued common stock to 
Microcap, Bayside and Meadpoint, all entities controlled by Sears.  Second, Sears, through these 
entities, sold the FSPM stock into the market.  Third, Sears transferred over $1 million of the 
proceeds from the illegal stock sales back to FSPM, where the money was fraudulently recognized 
and reported as revenue.  Fourth, FSPM issued press releases and financial reports claiming the 

                                                                                                                                                             
               unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully violated, or 
               willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the securities laws or 
               the rules and regulations thereunder. 

2
  Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides , in pertinent part, that: 

               The Commission may…deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
               appearing or practicing before it…to any person who is found…to have willfully 
               violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of any provision of the 
               Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 

3
  The findings herein  are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding 

on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  

                                                   2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

  
 

false revenues, and failed to disclose Sears’ identity, role, and background in FSPM’s quarterly and 
annual reports posted on the OTC Markets Group, Inc.’s website.   

                                          Respondent 

       1.     Scott M. Dittman, age 47, is a resident of Boyertown, Pennsylvania.  During the 
relevant period, Dittman was a founder, FSPM’s CEO, president, and sole director.  Dittman 
signed and certified FSPM’s unaudited quarterly and annual financial statements posted on the 
OTC website.  Dittman was licensed as a certified public accountant (“CPA”) in California in 
1995.  His CPA license was cancelled in April 2002, five years after it expired in 1997. 

                              Other Relevant Entities and Person 

       2.     Fusion Pharm, Inc. (“FSPM”) is a Nevada corporation with its principal offices in 
Denver, Colorado.  The company is focused on the development, production and sales of the 
“patent pending PharmPods cultivation container system,” which are refurbished shipping 
containers used primarily to grow cannabis.  FSPM has never registered an offering of securities 
under the Securities Act or a class of securities under the Exchange Act.  Beginning on April 4, 
2011, the company’s stock was quoted on OTC Link (previously “Pink Sheets”) operated by OTC 
Markets Group, Inc. (“OTC Link”) under the symbol FSPM.  Following the Commission’s 10-
business day trading suspension in May 2014, FSPM is currently listed as a Caveat Emptor/Grey 
Market OTC stock. 
        
       3.     William J. Sears, age 50, is a resident of Thornton, Colorado.  During the relevant 
period, Sears was a founder, de facto executive officer and undisclosed control person of FSPM.  
In 2007, Sears was convicted (via guilty plea) of one count of conspiracy to commit securities 
fraud and commercial bribery and one count of securities fraud.  United States v. Sears, Case No. 
04-cr-556-swk (S.D.N.Y.). 
        
       4.     Microcap Management LLC (“Microcap”) is a Nevada limited liability 
company, with its primary business address listed as Sears’ home address in Thornton, Colorado.  
Sears controls Microcap and is listed as the Manager with the Nevada Secretary of State.   
        
       5.     Bayside Realty Holdings LLC (“Bayside”) is a Nevada limited liability company, 
with its primary business address listed as the home address of Sears’ mother in New Bern, North 
Carolina.  During the relevant period, Sears controlled Bayside. 
        
       6.     Meadpoint Venture Partners, LLC (“Meadpoint”) is a Nevada limited liability 
company that shared a primary business address with FSPM’s prior warehouse in Denver, 
Colorado.  Meadpoint was purportedly FSPM’s exclusive distributor of PharmPods during the 
relevant period.  From 2011 through 2013, Sears represented himself as the “Managing Member” 
of Meadpoint.  Dittman was a shareholder and Internal Revenue Service Form 1099 employee of 
Meadpoint. 

                                                3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

  
 

                                             Facts  

                                         Background 

       7.     In late 2010, Dittman and Sears took over an existing public company, changing its 
name to FSPM in March 2011.  Dittman was listed as the CEO of the company, but Sears acted as 
an undisclosed executive officer.  Among other things, Sears worked at FSPM from its inception, 
appeared on non-public company documents as an officer, drew a paycheck, and handled many 
day-to-day responsibilities usually reserved for a company officer.  Although FSPM was 
ostensibly in the business of selling PharmPods, it had almost no revenue to fund its operations.  
Instead, from 2011 through 2013, FSPM was funded almost entirely through illegal sales of FSPM 
stock.  

       8.     Initially, FSPM was funded through the sale of stock that Sears received in the 
name of Microcap, both from FSPM’s predecessor entity and as part of the transition to FSPM.  In 
order to make Sears’ sales of FSPM stock appear legitimate, and as part of the fraudulent scheme, 
Sears and Dittman made it falsely appear that Sears, through Bayside and Meadpoint, had loaned 
money to FSPM.  Once Sears and Dittman had exhausted these funds, however, Sears then 
converted the fake “debt” owed to Bayside and Meadpoint to unrestricted FSPM shares, which 
Bayside and Meadpoint then illegally sold into the market.     

       9.     As part of the fraudulent scheme, Sears and Dittman funneled approximately $1.3 
million from the illegal FSPM stock sales back into FSPM.  In turn, FSPM falsely claimed the 
stock sale proceeds as revenue from sales of PharmPods, thereby increasing FSPM’s stock price 
and volume and making the fraud even more profitable.  As part of the scheme, Sears and Dittman 
hid Sears’ role in FSPM so as to claim falsely that Sears’ entities were not affiliates of FSPM 
(which they were), thus facilitating Sears’ illegal sales of unrestricted FSPM stock.  They also 
failed to disclose FSPM’s purported transactions with Sears’ entities as related party transactions, 
which they were based on Sears’ role in FSPM.  

         Dittman and Sears Funnel Shares Into Microcap, Bayside and Meadpoint 

       10.    In 2009, Microcap received common shares from FSPM’s predecessor company for 
stock promotion work.  In 2010, Microcap received preferred shares as part of the transfer of the 
predecessor company to Sears and Dittman.  In 2011, Microcap purchased FSPM common shares 
from an individual FSPM shareholder.   

       11.    In June 2012, Sears and Dittman prepared fraudulent non-convertible promissory 
notes and credit lines between FSPM and Bayside and between FSPM and Meadpoint.  The 
Bayside non-convertible note and credit line agreement, with a credit limit of $275,000, was 
backdated to May 2, 2011.  The Meadpoint non-convertible promissory note and credit line 
agreement, with a credit limit of $200,000 was backdated to June 15, 2011.   

                                                4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

  
 

       12.    In November/December 2012, the Bayside and Meadpoint notes were re-drafted 
as fraudulent convertible notes.  The notes were changed from non-convertible to convertible in 
order to obtain more unrestricted FSPM stock to sell illegally into the market and to investors, 
and in turn to fund FSPM.  Without changing the notes to convertible notes, FSPM would not 
have been able to issue purportedly unrestricted shares to Sears’ entities.  The Bayside note, 
backdated to May 2, 2011, was a 10% Convertible Promissory Note and Line of Credit 
Agreement in the amount of $275,000, with a conversion rate of $0.01/share.  The Meadpoint 
convertible note, this time backdated to December 8, 2011, was a 10% Convertible Promissory 
Note in the amount of $88,000, with a conversion rate of $0.01/share. 

          Microcap, Bayside and Meadpoint Illegally Sell Shares Into The Market 

       13.    From approximately April 28, 2011 through May 8, 2014, Sears, through his 
 entities Microcap, Bayside, and Meadpoint, illegally sold over $12.2 million of restricted FSPM 
 stock.   

       14.    Between approximately April 2011 and December 2012, Microcap sold 
 approximately 735,000 shares of unregistered FSPM stock.  Microcap’s sale of these 
 unregistered shares was based on false statements to brokers and to FSPM’s stock transfer agent 
 that Sears had no role at or control of FSPM, and therefore that Microcap was not an affiliate of 
 FSPM.  Almost all of the funds flowing into FSPM’s bank account in 2011 and 2012, either 
 directly from Microcap or funneled first through Bayside, Meadpoint, or another Sears entity, 
 are traced back to Microcap’s stock sales.   

       15.    Between approximately February 2013 and April 2013, pursuant to the Bayside 
 convertible note, Bayside converted debt into 140,000 FSPM common shares and sold them 
 into the market.  In order to facilitate the sales, Sears and Dittman made false statements to 
 brokers and the transfer agent about Bayside’s purported non-affiliate status.  In addition to the 
 consequences the fraudulent Bayside convertible promissory note had on Bayside’s ability to 
 receive unrestricted shares, Bayside’s true affiliate status also meant that Bayside needed to 
 abide by certain volume restrictions, which it failed to do.  Bayside sold the remainder of its 
 note to an investment group for $250,000 and, based on more false statements from Dittman 
 and Sears, the investors sold shares prior to the expiration of the one-year holding period 
 required by Securities Act Rule 144 [17 C.F.R. § 230.144].  Bayside’s proceeds from its FSPM 
 stock sales, as well as the payment from the investors, were ultimately funneled to FSPM using 
 Meadpoint as an intermediary.  FSPM used proceeds from the Bayside sales of stock and debt 
 to fund its 2013 operations.   

       16.    Between approximately March 2013 and April 2014, pursuant to the Meadpoint 
 convertible note, Meadpoint converted $42,450 of debt into 4.245 million FSPM common 
 shares, and then sold into the market approximately 3.2 million of those shares.  In order to 
 facilitate the sales, Sears and Dittman made false statements to brokers and the transfer agent 
 about Meadpoint’s purported non-affiliate status.  In August 2013, Meadpoint also converted 

                                               5 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

  
 

 $15,000 of fake debt into 1.5 million shares and then sold them to three investors.  The investors 
 received unrestricted shares on the basis of, again, Dittman’s and Sears’ false representations of 
 Meadpoint’s non-affiliate status.  In 2013, Meadpoint’s stock sale proceeds and payments from 
 the investors funded FSPM operations.  In 2014, Meadpoint’s proceeds from its note with 
 FSPM were $9.9 million.  While some of this amount was transferred to FSPM, the majority, 
 $8.7 million, was seized by criminal authorities in May 2014. 

          FSPM Falsely Reports Proceeds From Stock Sales As Revenue and Issues  
                         Additional False and Misleading Statements  

       17.    While Dittman and Sears were facilitating the transfer of unrestricted FSPM 
shares to Sears through his entities, Sears illegally sold those shares into the market and round-
tripped some of the proceeds back to FSPM.  FSPM, through Dittman and Sears, reported false 
revenues and made false statements about sales of PharmPods in press releases, which in turn 
maintained and/or increased FSPM’s stock price and volume, and allowed Sears to sell his 
FSPM stock into the market.  The false financial statements and revenue reported by FSPM were 
included in: (1) FSPM’s 2011 annual report (including its financial statements and notes to the 
financial statements), signed by Dittman and posted on the OTC Markets Group Inc.’s website; 
(2) FSPM’s 2012 annual report, signed by Dittman and posted on the OTC website; and (3) 
FSPM’s 2013 annual report, signed by Dittman and posted on the OTC website.   

       18.    FSPM also claimed to have sold PharmPods to certain Sears’ entities, including to 
Meadpoint and another Sears entity, but failed to disclose these transactions, as well as the 
Bayside and Meadpoint notes, as related party transactions.  FSPM’s Information and Disclosure 
Statement for the period ended September 30, 2011, and its 2011 and 2012 annual reports, all 
signed by Dittman and posted on the OTC website, falsely stated there were no related party 
transactions.  Further, none of FSPM’s other quarterly reports or its 2013 annual report posted on 
                                                     .
the OTC website disclosed related party transactions.  

 

                                           Violations 

       19.    As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent willfully violated Sections 
5(a) and 5(c) of the Securities Act.  Section 5(a) of the Securities Act prohibits the direct or indirect 
sale of securities through the mail or interstate commerce unless a registration statement is in 
effect.  Section 5(c) prohibits the direct or indirect offer for sale of securities through the mail or 
interstate commerce unless a registration statement has been filed.   

       20.    As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent willfully violated Sections 
17(a) of the Securities Act and Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.  
Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 
thereunder prohibit fraudulent conduct in the offer or sale of securities and in connection with the 
purchase or sale of securities. 

                                                6 
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

  
 

       21.    As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent willfully aided and abetted 
and caused FSPM’s violations of Sections 5(a), 5(c) and 17(a) of the Securities Act and Section 
10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.  

       22.    Exchange Act Section 4C(a)(3) and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice provide, in pertinent part, that “[t]he Commission may censure a person or 
deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before it in any way to 
any person who is found . . . [t]o have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the 
violation of, any provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations 
thereunder.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(1)(iii).  As a result of the conduct described above, 
Respondent willfully violated, and willfully aided and abetted the violation of, the 
aforementioned provisions of the Securities Act and Exchange Act within the meaning of 
Section 4C(a)(3) and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii). 

                                        Plea Agreement 

       23.    Respondent has entered into a written agreement to plead guilty to criminal conduct 
relating to the findings in the Order.  Specifically, in United States v. William Sears and Scott 
Matthew Dittman, 16-CR-301-WJM (D.Colo.), Respondent agreed to plead guilty to conspiracy 
[18 U.S.C. § 371] to commit violations of Section 5(a) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. § 77e(a)], 
violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78j(b)] and Rule 10b-5 thereunder 
[17 C.F.R. § 240.10b-5],wire fraud [18 U.S.C. § 1343], and mail fraud [18 U.S.C. § 1341].     

                                               IV. 

       Pursuant to this Order, Respondent agrees to additional proceedings in this proceeding to 
determine what, if any, disgorgement pursuant to Section 8A(e) of the Securities Act and Section 
21C(e) of the Exchange Act and/or civil penalties pursuant to Section 8A(g) of the Securities Act 
and Section 21B(a) of the Exchange Act against Respondent are in the public interest.  In 
connection with such additional proceedings: (a) Respondent agrees that he will be precluded from 
arguing that he did not violate the federal securities laws described in the Order; (b) Respondent 
agrees that he may not challenge the validity of the Order; (c) solely for the purposes of such 
additional proceedings, the findings of the Order shall be accepted as and deemed true by the 
hearing officer; and (d) the hearing officer may determine the issues raised in the additional 
proceedings on the basis of affidavits, declarations, excerpts of sworn deposition or investigative 
testimony, and documentary evidence.  It is further Ordered that, for purposes of exceptions to 
discharge set forth in Section 523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this 
Order are true and admitted by Respondent, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment 
interest, civil penalty or other amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other 
judgment, order, consent order, decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with this 
proceeding, is a debt for the violation by Respondent of the federal securities laws or any 
regulation or order issued under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy 
Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 

                                                 7 
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

  
 

                                                V. 

        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest 
to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer: 

       Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Sections 4C, 15(b) and 21C of 
the Exchange Act, and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice it is hereby ORDERED, 
effective immediately, that: 

       A.     Respondent shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
any future violations of Sections 5(a), 5(c), and 17(a) of the Securities Act and Section 10(b) of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.   
                       

       B.      Respondent be, and hereby is: 

                      barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: 
                      acting as a promoter, finder, consultant, agent or other person who 
                      engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for purposes of the 
                      issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce 
                      the purchase or sale of any penny stock. 

       C.     Respondent is prohibited from acting as an officer or director of any issuer that 
has a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act or that is 
required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.  
        
       D.     Respondent is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant.  
        
       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED pursuant to Rule 100(c) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.100(c), in the interest of justice and without prejudice to any party, that 
a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the questions set forth in Section IV 
hereof shall be convened at a time and place to be fixed, and before an Administrative Law 
Judge to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.110, following the entry of a final judgment against the last remaining 
defendant(s) in United States v. William Sears and Scott Matthew Dittman, 16-CR-301-WJM 
(D.Colo.) (the “Related Actions”). 

       If Dittman fails to appear at a hearing after being duly notified, Dittman may be 
deemed in default and the proceedings may be determined against him upon consideration of 
this Order, the allegations of which may be deemed to be true as provided by Rules 155(a), 
221(f), and 310 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. §§ 201.155(a), 201.221(f), 
and 201.310. 

                                                 8 
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

  
 

       This Order shall be served forthwith upon Dittman personally or by certified mail. 

       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED pursuant to Rule 100(c) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.100(c), in the interest of justice and without prejudice to any party, that 
the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an initial decision no later than 120 days from the date 
of the entry of a final judgment in the Related Actions. 

       In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission 
engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually 
related proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter, except 
as witness or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice.  Since this proceeding is not “rule 
making” within the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it is not 
deemed subject to the provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any final 
Commission action. 

By the Commission. 

 
 
                                                    Brent J. Fields 
                                                    Secretary 
 

                                                9 
 
