---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                                                       

 
 
                                     UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                                    Before the  
                            SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
                                     
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 10039 / February 11, 2016 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 77114 / February 11, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3742 / February 11, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17112 
 
                                                                 ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
 
                                                                 ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE                      -
In the Matter of     
                                                                 AND    - DESIST PROCEEDINGS 
 
                                                                 PURSUANT TO            SECTION 8A OF 
FRAZER FROST, LLP; SUSAN WOO, 
                                                                 THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 A                    ND 
CPA; and MIRANDA SUEN, CPA,                    
                                                                 SECTION 4C         AND 21C      OF THE 
 
                                                                 SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 
Respondents       
                                                                 1934 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE                  
                                                                 COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                                                  
 
                                                          I. 
 
         The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in 
the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby 
are, instituted against Frazer Frost LLP, Susan Woo, and Miranda Suen pursuant to Section 8A 
                                                                         1 
of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities 
                                                                              2          3
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii)                   and (iii)  of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.  

                                                 
1
 Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that: “The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or 
permanently, to any person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person 
is found . . . (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character or 
integrity, or to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully violated, or 
willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations 
thereunder.” 
2 
 Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: “The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, 
the privilege of appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or 
improper professional conduct.” 

                                                          1 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                      

                                                 II. 
 
       After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement and the Office of Chief Accountant 
allege that: 
 
                                           SUMMARY 
    
       Frazer Frost, LLP (“Frazer”), an audit firm, and two of its accountants, engagement 
partner Susan Woo (“Woo”) and manager Miranda Suen (“Suen”), (together, “Respondents”), 
engaged in multiple instances of improper professional conduct during their third quarter 2010 
review of interim financial information and their 2011 year-end audit of China Valves 
Technology, Inc. (“CVVT”).  In 2010, CVVT misled investors about its acquisition of Watts 
Valve (Changsha) Co., Ltd (“Changsha Valve”) and, in 2011, materially overstated income and 
understated liabilities incurred by subsidiary Shanghai Pudong Hanwei Valve Co., Ltd. (“Hanwei 
Valve”) in its financial statements.  Respondents failed to conduct the review and audit during 
the time in which these misstatements occurred in accordance with PCAOB auditing standards.  
As a result, Respondents engaged in improper professional conduct as defined in Section 4C of 
the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  Additionally, 
                       4
Respondents willfully   violated   and/or caused violations of Rule s 2 -02 and   2 -06 of    
Regulation S -X . 
        
       During   Respondents  ’ review of CVVT’s third quarter 2010 financial statements included 
in Form 10-Q but before the third quarter 2010 Form 10-Q was filed, Respondents received an 
email from CVVT’s CEO admitting that certain material information concerning the acquisition 
of Changsha Valve was misstated or not included in the notes to the financial statements for the 
first and second quarter 2010 Forms 10-Q.  The misstated or omitted information included:  (i) 
the identity of the seller; (ii) the role of an undisclosed related party in the transaction; (iii) the 
price of the acquisition; (iv) the structure of the acquisition; and (v) the allocation of assets and 
liabilities.  After receiving the email, Respondents performed procedures that confirmed that 
information in the first and second quarter 2010 financial statements filed in Forms 10-Q was 
materially incorrect.  Respondents documented proposed changes to the notes to the financial 
statements in their work papers.  Respondents, however, failed to take appropriate steps to 
communicate the inaccuracies and proposed changes to CVVT’s management or its audit 
committee and the third quarter 2010 Form 10-Q was issued without correction and repeated the 
known, material misstatements.   
        
       Respondents’ professional misconduct continued during the ensuing 2011 year-end audit 
of CVVT’s financial statements.  Respondents correctly recognized the need to exercise 
heightened professional skepticism during that audit.  In fact, they found CVVT’s internal 
controls to be ineffective and identified critical areas of the audit as high risk that merited 
extended audit procedures, including testing value-added-tax (“VAT”) payments made by 
CVVT’s subsidiaries.  However, Respondents failed to follow their own audit plan for the 
                                                                                                                                                             
3
 Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that: “The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, 
the privilege of appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have willfully violated, or 
willfully aided and abetted the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations 
thereunder.” 
4
 “Willfully” as used in this Order means knowingly committing the act which constitutes the violation.  See 
Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000); Tager v. SEC, 344 F.2d 5, 8 (2d Cir. 1965). 

                                                  2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                                        

Hanwei Valve subsidiary and did not perform extended procedures to test $1.7 million in VAT 
                                                                       5
payments purportedly made to a local tax bureau by Hanwei Valve.          T hey also failed to replace 
those procedures with   adequate alternative s  or to document why those procedures were no longer 
necessary .   Instead, in co ntravention of the risks they had identified, Respondents relied   solely 
on information provided by CVV     T  and, in doing so, failed to obtain sufficient audit evidence .  
As a result, Respondents  did not learn —unlike CVVT’s two subsequent auditors—that Hanwei 
Valve had not made the $1.7 million in VAT payments as recorded in CVVT’s books and 
records and reported in the 2011 financial statements included in Form 10-K.  Respondents’ 
improper professional conduct resulted in their improper issuance of an audit report containing 
an unqualified opinion as to CVVT’s 2011 financial statements, when in actuality the financial 
statements materially overstated net income by 6.22% and materially understated tax liabilities 
by 22.5%. 
        
                                              RESPONDENTS 
 
       1.      Frazer Frost, LLP is a PCAOB-registered accounting firm that maintains two 
offices in California.  Frazer currently has thirteen partners who provide auditing, consulting and 
                                                                                         6
tax services.  Frazer has not issued an audit report for a public company since 2012.        In 2011, 
Frazer issued only one audit report:   the report containing an unqualified opinion as to CVVT’s 
2011 financial statements.  Most of Frazer’s audit clients are companies with operations in the 
People’s Republic of China (“China”).  Such audits were handled by Frazer’s Asia Services 
Group, which had two audit partners:  Kerry Dean Yamagata (“Yamagata”) and Respondent 
Woo.  In December 2010, the Commission issued a cease-and-desist order that found that 
Yamagata and Frazer’s predecessor-entity, Moore Stephens Wurth Frazer & Torbet, LLP, 
engaged in improper professional conduct in connection with its audits and quarterly reviews of 
                                                                                                7
another China-based U.S. issuer, China Energy Saving Technology, Inc. (“China Energy).  
Respondent Woo acted as manager for the China Energy audits. 
        
       2.      Susan Woo, age 53, is a certified public accountant and an engagement partner at 
Frazer.  Woo has worked at Frazer since 1994, and became the Director of its Asia Services 
Group in 2002 and a partner in 2006.  She was the engagement partner responsible for the 2010 
interim review and 2011 audit of CVVT at issue in this matter.  Woo supervised the Frazer audit 
staff, reviewed and signed-off on the majority of relevant work papers, was ultimately 
responsible for the work conducted, and approved the issuance of the 2011 CVVT audit report 
containing an unqualified opinion on CVVT’s financial statements.   
 
       3.      Miranda Suen, age 42, is a certified public accountant and has worked at Frazer 
since 2006.  She became a manager in 2009.  She was the engagement manager responsible for 
the 2010 interim review and 2011 audit of CVVT at issue in this matter.  Suen was responsible 
for the day-to-day work conducted for the 2010 interim review and 2011 audit, supervised other 

                                                 
5 
 The relevant tax bureau is the Shanghai Pudong Third Tax Office.  For ease of reference,  this order will refer to it 
as the Hanwei tax bureau.   
6 
 Frazer also does business under the name Frazer LLP.  Frazer LLP is not separately registered with the PCAOB, 
and audit opinions are issued by the firm under the name Frazer Frost, LLP.   
7
 The Com  mission censured the firm pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and Section 4C of the Exchange 
Act and sanctioned Yamagata under Rule 102(e).  See In re Moore Stephens Wurth Frazer & Torbet LLP and K. 
Dean Yamagata, CPA, Ex. Act. Rel. No. 9166 (Dec. 20, 2010).   

                                                   3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                                                                                

staff working on each engagement with Woo, and reviewed and signed off on the relevant work 
papers.     
                                    RELATED PARTIES 
        
       4.     China Valves Technology, Inc. is a Nevada corporation with operations solely in 
China.  CVVT develops and manufactures water flow management products.  CVVT became a 
U.S. issuer in December 2007 through a reverse merger with Intercontinental Resources, Inc., a 
Nevada shell corporation.  CVVT’s common stock was listed on the Nasdaq Global Market 
(NASDAQ) under the symbol “CVVT.”  On September 21, 2012, CVVT filed a Form 25 
voluntarily withdrawing its securities from listing and registration on NASDAQ.  The 
Commission revoked the registration of CVVT’s securities on March 4, 2015 pursuant to Section 
12(j) for failing to file periodic reports.  On September 29, 2014, the Commission filed an action 
alleging fraud and other related misconduct against CVVT and three of its officers related to the 
disclosures concerning the Changsha Valve acquisition and the mischaracterization of $1.7 
million in VAT payments.  The company and two of the three officers charged settled that action 
             8
in May 2015.  
 
                                           FACTS 
        
        Respondents Failed to Conduct the 2010 Third Quarter Review of CVVT’s  
           Interim Financial Statements in Accordance with PCAOB Standards 
        
   A.  CVVT Misstates the Changsha Valve Acquisition 
 
       5.     In January 2010, CVVT purchased Changsha Valve from Watts Water 
Technologies, Inc. (“Watts”).  CVVT purchased the subsidiary from Watts through Able Delight, 
a related-party entity created by CVVT solely to facilitate its purchase of Changsha Valve. 
        
       6.     On February 8, 2010, CVVT filed a Form 8-K announcing that it had purchased 
the assets of Changsha Valve from Able Delight “for a cash price of approximately $15 million.”   
 
       7.     CVVT’s first, second, and third quarter 2010 Forms 10-Q similarly stated that 
CVVT acquired “100% of the assets of Able Delight [(Changsha) Valve Co. Ltd] for a total cash 
consideration of $15.0 million.  The acquisition was accounted as a business combination in 
accordance to the terms of the purchase agreement.”  The Forms 10-Q also disclosed that the 
acquisition included $4,944,755 in inventory, $10,113,703 in buildings and equipment, and zero 
liabilities. 
        
       8.     As described below, the Form 8-K and the 2010 Forms 10-Q fundamentally 
misstated the Changsha Valve transaction concerning:  (i) the identity of the seller; (ii) the true 
role of Able Delight, an undisclosed related party, in the transaction; (iii) the price of the 
acquisition; (iv) the structure of the acquisition; and (v) the allocation of assets and liabilities. 
        
        
 

                                                 
8
 See Litigation Release No. 23266 (May 20, 2015).   

                                               4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                                                                                

   B.  Respondents Learn that CVVT’s Disclosures Materially Misstate the Changsha Valve 
       Acquisition 
        
       9.     On October 7, 2010, more than a month before CVVT filed its third quarter 2010 
Form 10-Q, Respondent Woo received an email from CVVT’s CEO Jianbao Wang (“Wang”) to 
an industry analyst (the “Wang Email”). 
        
       10.    The Wang Email disclosed a number of material facts about the Changsha Valve 
transaction that were inconsistent with, or had not been included in, CVVT’s prior disclosures. 
 
       11.    Among other things, the Wang Email stated that: 
 
           a.  “CVVT Changsha subsidiary was previously a subsidiary of WATTS Water.   
              CVVT made the acquisition through an intermediary Able Delight . . . .” 
               
           b.  “But the CVVT principles [sic] insisted to be appointed as principles [sic] of Able 
              Delight (Changsha), a subsidiary of Able Delight (Hong Kong) to secure the risk 
              during the transaction”; 
 
           c.  “Able Delight paid WATTS Regulator 6.11 [million] USD, WATTS Shanghai 8 
              [million] RMB. and WATTS Tianjin 8 [million] RMB respectively. Able Delight 
              has also paid 44691304.28 RMB to clean up the remained debts [sic] and costs 
              such as lawyer cost, 350 employees working years complete ‘bought off’ and 
              suspended sales commission etc.  The total cost is 15 [million] USD”; and  
 
           d.  “This transaction has form of equity transaction . . . .” 
 
       12.    Respondent Woo forwarded the Wang Email to Respondent Suen and other audit 
staff shortly after she received it and instructed them to “verify and confirm all the legal 
documents including the payments made to various entities according to the statements [made by 
Wang].” 
        
       13.    Respondents should have exercised heightened professional skepticism after 
receiving the Wang Email.  
        
       14.    In its work papers for the third quarter 2010 interim review, Respondents 
documented that they performed procedures that confirmed the statements in the Wang Email.  
Accordingly, they concluded in their work papers that:   
 
           a.  Watts was the true seller of Changsha Valve and “because Able Delight is a 
              related party, [Frazer] will ensure that this related party is disclosed in FN” to the 
              2010 third quarter 10-Q; 
 
           b.  “Based on the procedures [documented in the work papers], Frazer Frost verified 
              that the Company had paid out $15 [million] to third parties, $6.07 million as 
              acquisition of Changsha, while $8.4 million as payments to settle Changsha’s 
              previous liabilities and $.6 million as legal and due diligent [sic] fees”; 
 

                                               5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                                                                                                         

            c.  The transaction was an equity, not an asset, purchase; and 
         
            d.  Proposed corrections should be made concerning net assets and liabilities. 
         
    C.  Respondents Fail to Take Corrective Action and CVVT’s Third Quarter Form 10-Q 
                                                                                       
        Repeats the Material Misstatements and Does Not Conform with GAAP 
 
        15.    Although Respondents verified during their 2010 third quarter review that the 
information in the Wang Email was correct and that CVVT’s 2010 financial statements included 
in Forms 10-Q   misstated the acquisition, Respondents failed to act in accordance with PCAOB 
interim review standards and recommend modifications to CVVT’s management or audit 
committee to make the Form 10-Q conform to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
(“GAAP”). 
         
        16.    Respondents’ work papers contain no documentation of discussions with CVVT’s 
management or audit committee concerning the need for modifications to make the Form 10-Q 
conform to GAAP or any steps taken to address the needed modifications. 
         
        17.    Respondents Woo and Suen signed off on their review of the notes to the third 
quarter financial statements, and CVVT’s third quarter Form 10-Q was issued on November 15, 
2010. 
         
        18.    Despite the auditors’ awareness of the inaccuracies, CVVT’s third quarter 2010 
financial statements included in its Form 10-Q repeated the material misstatements from the two 
                                                       9
previous quarters and did not conform with GAAP.        
 
    D.  Respondents Failed to Act in Accordance with Interim Review Obligations (AU § 722) 
        or Exercise Due Care (AU § 230) 
         
                                              10
        19.    PCAOB standards “require”  that auditors exercise due professional care in 
performing reviews of interim financial information.  (AU §§ 722.01 and 230.01.)  Due care 
requires that the auditor exercise professional skepticism, “an attitude that includes a questioning 
mind and a critical assessment of audit evidence.”  (AU § 230.07.)  When an auditor discovers 
information that causes it to question the accuracy of prior information in the financials, the 

                                                 
9
 See ASC 805-10-50, which provides that: “the acquirer shall disclose the following information for each business 
combination that occurs during the reporting period: a. the name and description of the acquiree; b. the acquisition 
date; c. the percentage voting equity interests acquired; and d. the primary reasons for the business combination and 
a description of how the acquirer obtained control of the acquiree.  Additionally, ASC 805-20-50 states the acquirer 
shall disclose “the amounts recognized as of the acquisition date for each major class of assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed.” 
10
  PCAOB Rule 3101 discusses the meaning of certain terms used in the PCAOB standards.  The rule provides the 
degree of responsibility the PCAOB standards impose on auditors.  The rule states that the words “must,” “shall,” 
and “is required” indicate unconditional responsibilities.  The word “should” indicates responsibilities that are 
presumptively mandatory.  The phrase “PCAOB standards require” is used herein when discussing both 
unconditional responsibilities and presumptively mandatory responsibilities.  This is appropriate because under Rule 
3101(a)(2) the “[f]ailure to discharge a presumptively mandatory responsibility is a violation of the relevant standard 
and Rule 3100 unless the auditor demonstrates that, in the circumstances, compliance with the specified 
responsibility was not necessary to achieve the objectives of the standard.” 

                                                   6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                                                                                                

auditor should consider what steps should be taken, including discussing the information with the 
client and preventing reliance on the financials.  (AU §§ 722.46 and 561.04.)  When an 
accountant becomes aware of misstatements, the accountant should evaluate the information to 
determine whether material modifications should be made to the interim financial information 
for it to conform with GAAP, and, where the accountant determines that a material modification 
should be made, “the accountant should communicate the matter(s) to the appropriate level of 
management as soon as practicable.”  (AU §§ 722.22, 722.26 and 722.29.)  If management does 
not respond appropriately within a reasonable period of time, the auditor should communicate 
the matter to the audit committee (or others with equivalent authority) and, if the audit committee 
does not appropriately respond, should consider whether to resign.  (AU §§ 722.30 and 722.31.)  
The communication to the audit committee can be oral or in writing, but, if oral, should be 
documented.  (AU § 722.30.)  Finally, PCAOB standards require accountants to document any 
significant findings or issues, such as procedures that indicate that the interim financial 
statements could be materially misstated, and actions taken to address those findings.  (AU § 
722.52.) 
        
       20.    Respondents received information directly from CVVT management that made it 
clear that the company’s disclosures concerning the Changsha Valve acquisition in its first and 
second quarter 2010 Forms 10-Q were false.  Respondents failed to exercise due professional 
care and an appropriate level of professional skepticism in evaluating this new information and 
in considering whether actions were needed to correct the disclosures and prevent future reliance 
on the inaccurate Forms 10-Q for the first two quarters of 2010. 
        
       21.    Respondents knew that CVVT’s notes to the third quarter 2010 financial 
statements materially misstated the Changsha Valve acquisition before they were filed with the 
Commission.  In fact, Respondents repeatedly noted in the work papers that corrections were 
needed.  Nevertheless, Respondents failed to raise the inaccuracies with CVVT management or 
CVVT’s audit committee as required by PCAOB standards. 
 
       22.    Respondents further failed to document, as required by AU §§ 722.30 and 722.52, 
communications with the audit committee, if any, and what actions, if any, were taken to address 
their findings that the notes to the 2010 third quarter financial statements were inaccurate or why 
they deemed it unnecessary to recommend the corrections noted in their work papers.  As a result 
of these failures, CVVT’s third quarter 2010 Form 10-Q repeated the material misstatements 
from the two previous quarters about the Changsha Valve acquisition and did not conform to 
GAAP. 
        
                  Respondents Failed to Conduct the 2011 CVVT Audit in  
                  Accordance with PCAOB Standards and Regulation S-X 
        
   A.  CVVT’s 2011 Form 10-K Misstated the Hanwei Valve VAT Payments 
   
       23.    Frazer was the independent auditor for the 2011 audit of CVVT’s financial 
statements for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011.  On November 18, 2011, Frazer issued 
an audit report containing an unqualified opinion as to CVVT’s 2011 financial statements. 
        
       24.    In a November 3, 2011 Form 8-K, CVVT announced that Frazer’s service as 
CVVT’s independent auditor would terminate at the completion of the 2011 audit.  In that same 

                                               7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

                                                                                                 

filing, CVVT announced that it had retained a China-based accounting firm (Successor Auditor 
A) to serve as the company’s independent auditor starting with the first quarter ended December 
31, 2011. 
        
       25.    In a February 14, 2012 Form 8-K, CVVT disclosed that during the interim review 
of financial statements for the quarter ended December 31, 2011, Successor Auditor A 
discovered that the VAT return for CVVT’s Hanwei subsidiary “could not be reconciled to the 
Company’s financial statements for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011.”  CVVT further 
disclosed that, as a result of an initial investigation, management had determined that a 
restatement was necessary and “that the Company’s unaudited financial statements for the 
quarters ended March 31, 2011 and June 30, 2011 as well as its audited financial statements for 
the year ended September 30, 2011, should no longer be relied upon.” 
        
       26.    In an August 12, 2013 Form 8-K/A, CVVT announced that: 
        
                      After      internal      auditing      and      investigation, 
                      management found that Hanwei purchased certain 
                      equipment  from  a  third  party  to  perform  reverse 
                      engineering  and  improve  its  products.  Since  the 
                      third party did not provide Hanwei with an invoice 
                      or any other written record of the sale and, because 
                      Hanwei  was  concerned  that  its  purchase  of  the 
                      equipment might cause it to become the subject of a 
                      challenge with respect to intellectual property rights 
                      associated      with      the      equipment,      Hanwei’s 
                      management made the determination to account for 
                      this       purchase       transaction       as       VAT       and 
                      supplementary   tax   payments   against   the   VAT 
                      payable and paid the third party as such.  
 
CVVT further disclosed that, as a result, approximately $1.7 million in VAT had not been paid 
in fiscal year 2011 and was misstated in the 2011 Form 10-K. 
 
   B.  Respondents Identified VAT Payments as High Risk Yet Failed to Perform  
       Planned Extended Procedures Designed to Test Hanwei’s VAT Payments 
 
       27.    In its 2010 and 2011 audit reports, Frazer concluded that CVVT’s internal 
controls over financial reporting were ineffective and identified material weaknesses and 
significant deficiencies in critical areas, including CVVT’s control environment and the U.S. 
GAAP expertise of CVVT accounting staff.  
        
       28.    Respondents determined that they would exercise heightened skepticism for the 
2011 audit of CVVT. 
        
       29.    On October 3, 2011, the PCAOB issued Staff Audit Practice Alert No. 8, Audit 
Risks in Certain Emerging Markets, which advised auditors of the increased risks of auditing 
companies in emerging market such as China, including the risk of wrongdoing by company 
management and the need to independently authenticate management representations (“PCAOB 

                                               8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

                                                                                                

Alert No. 8”).  
 
       30.    In response to PCAOB Alert No. 8, Respondents’ designed an extended audit 
approach for the area covering VAT payments. 
  
       31.    The 2011 fiscal year VAT payable for Hanwei Valve exceeded the $1.1 million 
materiality threshold assessed by Respondents for the audit. 
 
       32.    Respondents did not conduct internal controls testing for the area covering VAT 
taxes, and therefore assessed control risk as high for all assertions.   
  
       33.    Accordingly, Respondents’ designed the extended procedure of “go[ing] to the 
tax authority directly and confirm[ing] amount paid” in order to independently verify VAT tax 
paid (the “Tax Authority Procedure”). 
        
       34.    Respondents determined it was necessary and planned to perform the Tax 
Authority Procedure in addition to standard tracing procedures that relied solely on information 
and documents provided to them by CVVT. 
        
       35.    In addition to the Tax Authority Procedure, Respondent Woo instructed her staff 
to “observe the VAT and income tax return online using the Company’s IC card,” which could 
be placed into a computer system residing at the subsidiary to independently observe VAT 
amounts directly through the tax bureau system, including the amount of VAT paid (the “IC 
Card Procedure”). 
 
         i.   Respondents Failed to Conduct the Tax Authority Procedure or Adequate 
              Alternative Extended Procedures 
 
       36.    Respondents failed to perform the Tax Authority Procedure or adequate 
alternative extended procedures to meet the audit objective of independently verifying the VAT 
paid by Hanwei Valve. 
 
       37.    Respondents’ work papers contain no documentation that Respondents performed 
or attempted to perform the Tax Authority Procedure or adequate alternative extended 
procedures to meet the audit objective of independently verifying the VAT paid by Hanwei 
Valve.   
        
       38.    A Skype exchange between two Frazer audit staff states: “we didn’t go [to the tax 
authorities] apparently . . . [and] per [a Frazer independent contractor conducting the work], the 
VAT tax return she saw was the one w/out tax bureau stamp . . . [and] apparently we didn’t trace 
all the tax payments when we did the audit . . . I’m getting this from Susan [Woo]. . .” 
        
       39.    Respondents’ work papers do not document the basis for their conclusions and 
opinions regarding why they did not perform the Tax Authority Procedure and what, if any, 
alternative extended procedures were considered. 
 
       40.    Respondents performed the Tax Authority Procedure for two other CVVT 
subsidiaries, Henan Kaifeng High Pressure Valve Co. (“Kaifeng”) and Zhengzhou City ZD 

                                               9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

                                                                                               

Valve Co. Ltd. (“ZD”).  The work papers for Kaifeng and ZD state that Frazer staff went to the 
tax authorities and “the tax bureau personnel reconciled the numbers on VAT tax filing and the 
system.  All numbers agreed and then stamped.  [Frazer] observed beginning balance of OCT 
agreed to the Sep ending balance per VAT tax filing, and the stamp was the same as the stamp 
[provided by the company].” 
 
       41.    In its review of CVVT’s interim financial statements for the quarter ended 
December 31, 2011, Successor Auditor A discovered that Hanwei Valve’s VAT tax return did 
not reconcile to CVVT’s financial statements.  After that discovery, Successor Auditor A visited 
the Hanwei tax bureau and verified the correct VAT tax return.   
        
       42.    In a July 23, 2012 Form 8-K, CVVT announced the resignation of Successor 
Auditor A as its independent auditor.  In a June 3, 2013 Form 8-K, CVVT announced that it had 
engaged a U.S.-based accounting firm (“Successor Auditor B”) as the company’s independent 
auditor.  
        
       43.    In August 2013, Successor Auditor B also visited the Hanwei tax bureau and 
verified that Hanwei Valve had paid approximately $44,000, and not $1.7 million, in VAT 
during fiscal year 2011.  Thus, Successor Auditor B was able to determine the correct amount of 
VAT paid by Hanwei Valve by performing—in substance—the Tax Authority Procedure 
outlined in Respondents’ audit plan. 
        
        ii.   Respondents Failed to Conduct the IC Card Procedure or Adequate Alternative 
              Extended Procedures 
        
       44.    Respondents failed to perform the IC Card Procedure or adequate alternative 
extended procedures to meet the audit objective of independently verifying the VAT paid by 
Hanwei Valve. 
        
       45.    Respondents’ work papers do not document the basis for their conclusions and 
opinions regarding why they did not perform the IC Card Procedure for Hanwei Valve and what, 
if any, alternative extended procedures they considered. 
 
       46.    A China-based accounting firm subsequently hired by CVVT used the IC Card 
system to determine that Hanwei Valve paid approximately $44,000, and not $1.7 million, in 
VAT payments to the Hanwei tax bureau during the 2011 fiscal year. 
 
   C.  Respondents Failed to Exercise Due Care (AU § 230), Obtain a Reasonable Basis for 
       Believing that the Financial Statements were Accurate (AU §§ 230 and 316 and AS 
       Nos. 8 and 13), Obtain Sufficient Evidential Matter (AS No. 15 and AU § 150), and 
       Instead Placed Undue Weight on Management Representations (AU § 333) 
 
       47.    PCAOB standards require auditors to exercise due professional care when 
conducting an audit and preparing a report.  (AU § 230.01.)  Under this standard, auditors must 
maintain an attitude of professional skepticism, which includes “a questioning mind and a critical 
assessment of audit evidence.”  (AU § 230.07.)  “The auditor neither assumes that management 
is dishonest nor assumes unquestioning honesty.”  (AU § 230.09.)  “The exercise of due 
professional care allows the auditor to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial 

                                             10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

                                                                                                  

statements are free of material misstatement, whether caused by error or fraud . . . Although not 
absolute assurance, reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance.”  (AU § 230.10.) 
        
       48.    Auditors must design and perform audit procedures to obtain reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free of material misstatement due to error or fraud.  
(AS Nos. 8.3 and 13.3.)  “The necessary extent of a substantive audit procedure depends on the 
materiality of the account or disclosure, the assessed risk of material misstatement, and the 
necessary degree of assurance from the procedure.”  (AS No. 13.42.)  “The auditor must plan and 
perform audit procedures to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to provide a reasonable 
basis for his or her opinion.”  (AS No. 15.4.)  The higher the assessed risk of material 
misstatement, the more persuasive audit evidence the auditor should obtain from substantive 
audit procedures.  (A.S. Nos. 13.37, 13.9, and 15.5.)  In determining the amount of audit 
evidence needed, the auditor should consider the risk associated with the relevant internal control 
and the quality (i.e. the relevance and reliability) of the evidence obtained.  (AS Nos. 15.5 and 
15.6.)  Among other things, “[e]vidence obtained from a knowledgeable source that is 
independent of the company is more reliable than evidence obtained only from internal company 
sources.”  (AS No. 15.8.)  When audit evidence is provided by the company, the auditor should 
evaluate the sufficiency and appropriateness of the evidence by “performing procedures to: [t]est 
the accuracy and completeness of the information, or test the controls over the accuracy and 
completeness of that information; and [e]valuate whether the information is sufficiently precise 
and detailed for purposes of the audit.”  (AS No. 15.10.)  
        
       49.    Auditing standards require that “[s]ufficient appropriate evidential matter is to be 
obtained through inspection, observation, inquiries, and confirmations to afford a reasonable 
basis for an opinion regarding the financial statements under audit.”  (AU § 150.02.)  
Management’s representations should not act as a substitute for auditing procedures necessary to 
obtain a reasonable basis about the financial statements.  (AU § 333.02.)  Rather, auditors must 
plan and perform procedures to address the fraud risks and obtain reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements do not contain material misstatements.  (AU §§ 316.01 and 316.52.)  In 
doing so, the auditor “should not be satisfied with less-than-persuasive evidence because of a 
belief that management is honest.”  (AU § 333.03.) 
 
       50.    Respondents failed to exercise due care and professional skepticism in performing 
the 2011 year-end audit of Hanwei Valve.  Respondents specifically designed the extended Tax 
Authority Procedure and IC Card Procedure to account for the risk of material misstatement.  
Nonetheless, Respondents failed to ensure that the planned procedures were actually performed 
for Hanwei Valve.  
        
       51.    Respondents failed to ensure that alternative extended procedures to the Tax 
Authority Procedure or IC Card Procedure were performed to independently verify the VAT 
payments recorded by Hanwei Valve and obtain a reasonable basis for concluding that the 
financial statements were free of material misstatements.  Accordingly, Respondents violated the 
standards of due care and professional skepticism, failed to ensure that appropriate procedures 
were performed to address the risk of material misstatement, and failed to obtain sufficient audit 
evidence.   
        
       52.    Respondents placed undue weight on management’s representations by relying 
solely on documentation and information provided by CVVT instead of performing the 

                                               11 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

                                                                                                  

specifically designed extended procedures or adequate alternative extended procedures designed 
to meet the audit objective of independently verifying the VAT paid by Hanwei Valve. 
 
   D.  Respondents Failed to Document Procedures or Retain Documents (AS No. 3) and, by 
       doing so, Frazer Violated and Woo and Suen Caused Frazer’s Violation of Rule 2-06 
       of Regulation S-X 
 
       53.    PCAOB standards require that auditors document the procedures performed, the 
evidence obtained, and the conclusions reached.  (AS No. 3.6.)  Notably, “audit documentation 
must clearly demonstrate that the work was in fact performed,” regardless of whether the work 
was performed by the engagement team or specialists assisting the auditor.  Id.  Audit 
documentation must contain information sufficient to allow an auditor with no connection to the 
work to understand the procedures performed, evidence obtained and conclusions reached and to 
determine who performed the work, when the work was completed, the person who reviewed the 
work, and the date of the review.  Id.   
        
       54.    “Because audit documentation is the written record that provides the support for 
the representations in the auditor’s report, it should:  a. Demonstrate that the engagement 
complied with the standards of the PCAOB, b. Support the basis for the auditor’s conclusions 
concerning every relevant financial statement assertion, and c. Demonstrate that the underlying 
accounting records agreed or reconciled with the financial statements.”  (AS No. 3.5.)  “The 
auditor must document significant findings or issues, actions taken to address them (including 
additional evidence obtained), and the basis for the conclusions reached in connection with each 
engagement.”  (A.S. No. 3.12).  Significant findings or issues include “e. circumstances that 
cause difficulty in applying auditing procedures” and “f. significant changes in the auditor’s risk 
assessments, including risks that were not identified previously, and the modifications to audit 
procedures or additional audit procedures in response to those changes.”  Id. 
        
       55.    Rule 2-06 of Regulation S-X imposes documentation and retention obligations on 
accountants.  Rule 2-06 requires that accountants retain certain relevant audit records for a period 
of seven years, including work papers and other documents that contain conclusions, opinions, 
analyses, or financial data.  Rule 2-06 also requires documentation of any significant matters 
considered during the audit.  As noted in the adopting release, “[i]f such work is performed but 
not documented, the auditor generally would violate [generally accepted auditing standards] or 
               11
new rule 2-06.”  
        
       56.    Respondents failed to document the extended procedures, if any, performed to test 
Hanwei Valve’s VAT payments.   
        
       57.    Respondents failed to ensure that Frazer staff documented the basis for their 
conclusions and opinions regarding why the designed extended procedures were not performed, 
why sufficient alternative extended procedures that achieved the same audit objective were not 
performed, and how reasonable assurances that the financial statements were free of material 
misstatements were obtained in the absence of these procedures.   
        
       58.    Respondents failed to ensure adequate documentation of who performed and 

                                                 
11
  Final Rule: Retention of Records Relevant to Audits and Reviews, 17 CFR Part 210.   

                                               12 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

                                                                                                   

reviewed procedures concerning the Hanwei Valve VAT payments and when that work was 
performed.   
        
       59.    Respondents also failed to ensure the documentation and retention of documents 
that contain conclusions, opinions, analyses, and financial data concerning the Hanwei audit as 
required under Rule 2-06 of Regulation S-X, including: tax bureau vouchers, bank account 
statements, monthly VAT returns, or any other financial data concerning the VAT purportedly 
paid by Hanwei. 
 
   E.  Respondents Failed to Adequately Supervise Staff (AS No. 10). 
 
       60.    PCAOB standards require auditors to supervise the audit engagement “so that the 
work is performed as directed and supports the conclusions reached.”  (AS No. 10.2.)  “[T]he 
engagement partner is responsible for proper supervision of the work of the engagement team 
members and for compliance with PCAOB standards.”  (A.S. No. 10.3.)  The engagement 
partner may obtain assistance from other team members in supervising the audit staff, and such 
team members are similarly responsible for complying with supervisory standards.  (AS No. 
10.4.)  The engagement partner and other staff members assisting with supervision should inform 
staff members of their responsibilities, including, among other things: (1) the objectives of the 
procedures, (2) the nature, timing, and extent of the procedures to be performed, and (3) any 
relevant issues that could affect the performance of the procedures.  (AS No. 10.5.)  In 
determining the extent of supervision, the engagement partner and staff members assisting with 
supervision should take into account “the risk of material misstatement; and the knowledge, skill, 
and ability of each engagement team member.”  (A.S. No. 10.6.)   Additionally, the engagement 
partner and staff members assisting with supervision should review the work of their team 
members “to evaluate whether: (1) the work was performed and documented; (2) the objectives 
of the procedures were achieved; and (3) the results of the work support the conclusions 
reached.”  (AS No. 10.5.)   
        
       61.    Respondent Woo, as the engagement partner, was responsible for supervising her 
audit staff and for the conduct of the audit in accordance with PCAOB standards.   
        
       62.    Respondent Suen, the audit manager, directed the fraud and audit planning 
           12
discussions   and  assisted in supervising the audit staff and reviewing the work performed.   
        
       63.    Respondents Woo and Suen failed to adequately supervise staff in connection 
with the audit of Hanwei Valve.  
 
       64.    Respondent Woo assigned a manager (“Assisting Manager”), who was not 
originally assigned to the CVVT engagement, to perform field work for Hanwei Valve.  
Respondents Woo and Suen reviewed the Assisting Manager’s work.   
        
       65.    The Assisting Manager’s involvement in the CVVT engagement began after 
planning was completed and field work was underway; thus, she was not involved in the initial 

                                                 
12
  The engagement partner is responsible for planning the audit and may seek assistance from appropriate 
engagement team members in fulfilling these responsibilities.  (A.S. No. 9.3.)  Engagement team members who 
assist the engagement partner with audit planning must also comply with the relevant PCAOB standards governing 
planning.  Id. 

                                               13 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

                                                                                                 

fraud discussion and audit planning.  The Assisting Manager was not aware of and did not 
conduct the designed Tax Authority Procedure, IC Card Procedure, or adequate alternative 
extended procedures to independently verify the VAT paid by Hanwei Valve. 
        
       66.    A China-based independent contractor assisted Respondents on the 2011 audit 
(“Independent Contractor”).  The Independent Contractor purportedly performed standard 
tracing procedures to test Hanwei Valve’s VAT payments, but did not perform the designed Tax 
Authority Procedure, the IC Card Procedure, or adequate alternative extended procedures to 
independently verify the VAT paid by Hanwei Valve. 
 
       67.    Respondents Woo and Suen failed to ensure that the Independent Contractor—
who was not a licensed U.S. accountant and hired only to perform low-level administrative 
tasks—performed procedures that were commensurate with her qualifications. 
 
       68.    Respondents Woo and Suen violated their obligations when they failed to 
adequately inform the Assisting Manager and Independent Contractor of the designed 
procedures, the extent and objectives of the procedures, and the risks involved in the audit.  In 
particular, Respondents Woo and Suen failed to supervise the Assisting Manager and 
Independent Contractor when they failed to evaluate whether the designed procedure were 
performed, that the objectives of the procedures were achieved, and that the results of the work 
supported the conclusions reached. 
        
       69.    Although the designed extended procedures or adequate alternative extended 
procedures to independently verify the VAT paid by Hanwei Valve were not performed, 
Respondents Woo and Suen reviewed and signed off on the relevant work papers and provided 
improper assurance on the 2011 financial statements, which materially misstated the amount of 
VAT paid. 
        
       70.    On November 18, 2011, Frazer issued an audit report containing an unqualified 
opinion as to CVVT’s 2011 financial statements, which materially misstated the VAT payable.  
        
   F.  Frazer Violated Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X and Woo Caused Frazer’s Violation 
       by Issuing an Audit Report Falsely Stating that the Audit Complied with GAAS 
 
       71.    Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X requires that an auditor’s report state, “whether 
                                                                                      13
the audit was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards [GAAS].”   17 
C.F.R. 210.2-02(b)(1).  An auditor violates Rule 2-02(b)(1) if it issues a report stating that it 
conducted its audit in accordance with PCAOB standards when it did not.  Frazer’s 2011 audit 
report stated that the firm had conducted the audits in accordance with PCAOB standards.  These 
representations were false, and thus Frazer willfully violated Rule 2-02(b)(1).  Woo, as an 
engagement partner at Frazer, approved the signing of the firm’s name to the audit report and its 
issuance for inclusion in the filings with the Commission.  As a result, Woo caused Frazer’s 
violation of Rule 2-02(b)(1). 
        
        

                                                 
13
  These standards include the auditing standards adopted by the PCAOB following passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley 
Act of 2002. 

                                               14 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

                                                                                                 

                                        VIOLATIONS 
 
                 Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) and Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act 
                                                 
       72.    As a result of the conduct described above, Respondents engaged in improper 
professional conduct within the meaning of Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 
102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
         
       73.    Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provide, in part, that the 
Commission may censure or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before the Commission to any person who is found by the Commission to have 
engaged in “improper professional conduct.”  In relevant part, Section 4C(b)(2) and Rule 
102(e)(1)(iv)(B) define “improper professional conduct” as one of two types of negligent 
conduct: (1) a single instance of highly unreasonable conduct in circumstances for which 
heightened scrutiny is warranted; or (2) repeated instances of unreasonable conduct that indicate 
a lack of competence.  As discussed above, Respondents’ failures to conform to applicable 
professional standards in connection with the 2010 interim review and the 2011 audit of CVVT 
constitute both repeated instances of unreasonable conduct and single instances of highly 
unreasonable conduct under circumstances that warranted heightened scrutiny. 
 
                            Rules 2-02 and 2-06 of Regulation S-X 
                                                 
       74.    An auditor violates Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X by issuing a report falsely 
stating that an audit was conducted in accordance with PCAOB standards. As a result of the 
conduct described above, Respondent Frazer willfully violated and Respondent Woo caused 
Frazer’s violation of Rule 2-02(b)(1). 
        
       75.    Rule 2-06 under Regulation S-X provides that for a period of seven years after an 
accountant concludes an audit or review of an issuer’s financial statements, the accountant shall 
retain records relevant to the audit or review, including work papers and other documents that 
form the basis of the audit or review, and memoranda, correspondence, communications, other 
documents and records (including electronic records), which: “(1) Are created, sent or received 
in connection with the audit or review, and (2) Contain conclusions, opinions, analyses, or 
financial data related to the auditor or review.”  The rule also requires documentation of any 
significant matters considered during the audit.  Frazer willfully violated Rule 2-06 as a result of 
its documentation and retention failures, and Woo and Suen caused Frazer’s violation of Rule 2-
06. 
        
                     Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) and Section 4C(a)(3) of the Exchange Act 
        
       76.    As a result of the conduct described above, Frazer willfully violated certain 
provisions of the federal securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder pursuant to 
Section 4C(a)(3) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice. 
        
       77.    Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice provide that the Commission may deny the privilege of appearing or practicing 
before the Commission to any person found “[t]o have willfully violated, or willfully aided and 

                                               15 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

                                                                                                    

abetted the violation of, any provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations 
thereunder.” As a result of the conduct described above, Frazer willfully violated certain 
provisions of the federal securities laws or rules and regulations thereunder pursuant to Section 
4C(a)(3) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
                                                III. 
        
       In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement and the Office of Chief 
Accountant, the Commission deems it necessary and appropriate in the public interest that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be instituted to determine: 
        
       A.     Whether the allegations set forth in Section II hereof are true and, in connection 
therewith, to afford Respondents an opportunity to establish any defenses to such allegations;  
        
       B.     What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against 
Respondents pursuant to Section 4C of the Exchange Act and 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice. 
 
       C.     What, if any, remedial action is appropriate and in the public interest, pursuant 
Section 21B and 21C of the Exchange Act.   
        
                                                IV. 
        
       IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the questions 
set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened not earlier than 30 days and not later than 60 days 
from service of this Order at a time and place to be fixed, and before an Administrative Law Judge 
to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 
C.F.R. § 201.110.   
        
       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents shall file an Answer to the allegations 
contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as provided by Rule 220 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220.  
        
       If Respondents fail to file the directed answer, or fail to appear at a hearing after being duly 
notified, the Respondents may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be determined against 
them upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be deemed to be true as 
provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f), and 310 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. 
§§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f), and 201.310. 
        
       This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondents as provided for in the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice.    
        
       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an initial 
decision no later than 300 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to Rule 360(a)(2) of 
the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
       In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission 
engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually related 

                                                16 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

                                                                                                        

proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter, except as 
witness or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice.  Since this proceeding is not “rule 
making” within the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it is not deemed 
subject to the provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any final Commission action. 
        
       By the Commission. 
 
                                
                                                               Brent J. Fields 
                                                               Secretary 

                                                  17 
