---------------------Page 1---------------------

                         UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                    Before the 
                  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933  
Release No. 10090 / June 7, 2016 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 78008 / June 7, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3779 / June 7, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16729 
 
                                             
                                             
                                             
In the Matter of                         
                                         
      MILLER ENERGY                      
      RESOURCES, INC., PAUL W.          ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND 
      BOYD, CPA, DAVID M. HALL,         IMPOSING  REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
      AND CARLTON W. VOGT, III ,        PURSUANT TO SECTION 8A OF THE 
      CPA                               SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 AND SECTION 
                                        21C OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE 
Respondent s.                           ACT OF 1934  AS TO DAVID M. HALL  
                                         
 
 
 
                                            
 
                                        I. 
 
      On August 6, 2015, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) instituted 
proceedings pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 
21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against David M. Hall (“Hall” or 
“Respondent”). 
 
                          

                                           
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 

                                                II. 
 
        Respondent has submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has 
determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings 
brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party and without 
admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission's jurisdiction over him and 
the subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in 
Section V, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Making Findings and Imposing 
Remedial Sanctions Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as to David M. Hall (the “Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                                III. 
 
                                                                                 1
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that: 
 
                                           SUMMARY 
                                                  
       1.      This case involves financial accounting and reporting fraud related to the valuation 
of certain oil and gas assets in Alaska (“the Alaska Assets”) acquired by Miller Energy Resources, 
Inc. (“Miller Energy” or “the Company”).  Miller Energy, an oil and gas company headquartered 
in Houston, Texas, purchased these assets for $2.25 million in cash – along with the assumption of 
certain liabilities it valued at approximately $2 million – during a competitive bid in a bankruptcy 
proceeding in December 2009.   
                                           
       2.      The Company subsequently reported those assets at an overstated value of $480 
million and recognized a one-time “bargain purchase” gain of $277 million for its fiscal third 
quarter ended January 2010 and fiscal year ended April 2010.   
        
       3.      Miller Energy failed to account for the acquisition in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).  Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 805, 
Business Combinations, required Miller Energy to record the value of its acquired Alaska Assets at 
“fair value.”  However, contrary to authoritative accounting guidance, Miller Energy used as fair 
value a reserve report that was prepared by a petroleum engineer firm using the rules for 
supplemental oil and gas disclosures.  The reserve report materially overstated the value of the oil 
and gas reserves in part because it contained expense projections that were materially understated 
by Hall.   
        
       4.      In addition, Hall caused the Company to misstate the fair value of certain fixed 
assets by altering an insurance report to make it appear as if it were a third party report on the 
replacement value of those assets.      

                                                 
1
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person in this or any other proceeding. 

                                                 2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 

 
                                        RESPONDENT 

       5.      David M. Hall resides in Anchorage, Alaska.  Hall has degrees in Industrial and 
Electrical Engineering from Rochville University.  He served as a director of the Company and as 
CEO of Miller Energy’s Alaska subsidiary from December 2009 until around August 2015, and as 
Miller Energy’s Chief Operating Officer between July 2013 and August 2015.  He worked with the 
acquired Alaska Assets since at least the mid-1990s, when Miller Energy’s predecessors began 
compiling the assets.  Prior to joining Miller Energy, Hall served from January 2008 to December 
2009 as Vice President and General Manager of Alaska Operations for the immediate past owner 
of the acquired assets.  In this capacity, Hall was the most senior employee in Alaska responsible 
for the day-to-day operations of the oil and gas properties.   

                                       THE COMPANY 

       6.      Miller Energy Resources, Inc. is a Tennessee corporation with its principal place 
of business in Houston, Texas.  It was founded in 1967 as an oil and gas exploration and 
production company, and went public via a reverse merger in 1996.  It changed its name from 
Miller Petroleum to Miller Energy Resources in April 2011.  The Company operated oil and gas 
assets in the Appalachian region of east Tennessee until selling them in November 2014 for $3.3 
million in cash.   Miller Energy’s securities, registered pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12(b), 
were listed on the NYSE until September 2015, when the securities were delisted.  Between early 
2002 and December 2009, Miller Energy’s stock price regularly traded below one dollar per share, 
falling to a low of $0.04 per share in December 2007.  On October 1, 2015, Miller Energy filed a 
voluntary petition for reorganization under chapter 11 of title 11 of the U.S. Code in the United 
States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Alaska (the “Bankruptcy Case”).         

                                             FACTS 

                   Miller Energy Acquires and Overvalues the Alaska Assets 

       7.      In the fall of 2009, Miller Energy became aware of certain oil and gas properties in 
Alaska that were in the process of being “abandoned” as part of the bankruptcy proceedings of a 
California-based energy company.   
        
       8.      Unable to service its heavy debt and pay the significant monthly costs required to 
operate the properties, the bankrupt entity unsuccessfully sought for almost a year to sell its Alaska 
Assets.  Beginning in December 2008, months before it filed for bankruptcy, the former owner of 
the assets marketed the same group of assets that Miller Energy ultimately bought to 40 potential 
buyers.  This process failed to attract any bidders, and the assets were auctioned by the bankruptcy 
court in July 2009, with the winning bidder agreeing to a total purchase price of $8 million for the 
assets.  A second entity, who bid $7 million, was designated as the back-up purchaser.  Neither 
bidder closed.    
        
       9.      As a result, the former owner of the assets sought in August 2009, and was granted 
in September, an order from the bankruptcy court allowing it to abandon title to the assets due to a 
lack of interest.   
                                                3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 

        
       10.    Due to renewed interest in the assets from Miller Energy following their 
abandonment, the bankruptcy court permitted the debtor to reacquire the Alaska Assets and sell 
them to Miller Energy in a competitive auction for $2.25 million in cash and the assumption of 
certain limited liabilities.  The transaction closed on December 10, 2009.   
        
       11.    On March 22, 2010, Miller Energy filed its quarterly report on Form 10-Q for its 
fiscal third quarter ended January 31, 2010 and reported a value of $480 million for the Alaska 
acquisition.  That amount was comprised of $368 million for oil and gas properties and $110 
million for fixed assets.  Miller Energy also reported an after-tax $277 million “bargain purchase 
gain” which boosted net income for the quarter to $272 million – an enormous increase over the 
$556,097 loss reported for the same period the year before. 
        
       12.    As detailed below, these inflated balance sheet and income statement numbers were 
repeated in numerous documents subsequently filed with the Commission.   
        
       13.    The newly-booked value of the Alaska acquisition, which resulted in a nearly 
5,000% increase in Miller Energy’s total assets, had a significant impact on Miller Energy’s stock 
price.  On December 10, 2009, the date of the transaction, Miller Energy’s stock closed at $0.61 
per share.  By March 31, 2010, Miller Energy’s stock closed 982% higher at $6.60 per share.  
Weeks later, its stock began trading on NASDAQ and, after moving to the NYSE a year later, 
reached an all-time high price on December 9, 2013 of $8.83 per share.   
        
       14.    As described in detail below, Miller Energy materially overstated the value of its 
Alaska Assets by more than four hundred million dollars. 
        
                           Under GAAP, Miller Energy Was Required 
                          to Record the Alaska Acquisition at Fair Value 

       15.    ASC 805, Business Combinations – formerly Statement of Financial Accounting 
Standards (“SFAS”) 141(R) – became effective in December 2008.  Among its principal revisions, 
ASC 805 requires acquisitions that result in a “bargain purchase,” e.g., entities purchased at fire 
sales prices in non-orderly transactions, to be measured at fair value, with any resulting gain 
recorded on the income statement. 
        
       16.    ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements (formerly SFAS 157), provides the framework 
for measuring fair value.  “Fair value” is defined in ASC 820 as “the price that would be received 
to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at 
the measurement date.”  A reporting entity must determine an appropriate fair value using one or 
more of the valuation techniques described in accounting literature. 
        
       17.    ASC 820 outlines three broad approaches to measure fair value: the market 
approach, income approach, and cost approach.  Under the market approach, prices and other 
relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable assets or 
liabilities are used to measure fair value.  The income approach utilizes valuation techniques to 

                                                4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 

convert future amounts to a single discounted present value amount.  Finally, the cost approach is 
based on the amount that currently would be required to replace the assets in service, i.e., current 
replacement cost. 
         
        18.     ASC 820 emphasizes that fair value is a market-based measurement, not an entity-
specific measurement, and should be determined based on the assumptions market participants 
would use in pricing the asset or liability. 
         
        19.     ASC 820 emphasizes that when a price for an identical asset or liability is not 
observable, entities should use a “valuation technique that maximizes the use of relevant 
observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs” and entities may not ignore 
                                                 2
assumptions market participants would use.          
         
        20.      As described below, Miller Energy purported to value its Alaska acquisition using 
the income approach for the oil and gas reserves and the cost approach for certain fixed assets. 

                        The Valuation of the Acquired Oil and Gas Properties 
            Was Based Upon a Reserve Report, Which Does Not Represent Fair Value 

        21.     Reserve reports are commonly used in the oil and gas industry to estimate quantities 
                                                                                        3
of oil and gas (the reserves) expected to be recovered from existing properties.            Generally, these 
reports list reserves in categories based on a minimum estimated percentage probability of eventual 
recovery and production,    i.e., proved, probable, and possible.  Information in reserve reports that 
are prepared in accordance with Commission regulations is frequently used, among other purposes, 
to satisfy supplemental accounting disclosure requirements concerning estimates of future oil and 

                                                 
2
        ASC 820 defines “unobservable inputs” as “inputs that reflect the reporting entity’s own assumptions about 
the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on the best 
information available in the circumstances” and “observable inputs” as “inputs that reflect the assumptions market 
participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on market data obtained from sources 
independent of the reporting entity.”  
3
        Oil and gas reporting companies are subject to two principal authoritative pronouncements governing 
financial accounting and reporting for oil and gas activities: Rule 4- 10 of Regulation S-X ( 17 C.F.R. 210.4- 10),  
Financial Accounting and Reporting for Oil and Gas Producing Activities Pursuant to the Federal Securities Laws 
and the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975 (“Rule 4-10”); and ASC 932-235-50-29 through 33 (formerly 
SFAS 19, Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Companies and SFAS 69, Disclosures 
About Oil and Gas Producing Activities).  ASC 932 establishes disclosure requirements for significant oil and gas 
activities, including disclosure of the “standardized measure,” which is the future after-tax net cash flows discounted 
at 10%. A non-GAAP measure known as “PV-10” is similar to the standardized measure but is typically presented 
on a pretax basis.  The FASB has noted that the standardized measure supplies investors with useful information, 
however, they also noted their concern “that users of financial statements understand that it is neither fair market 
value nor the present value of future cash flows. It is a rough surrogate for such measures, a tool to allow for a 
reasonable comparison of mineral reserves and changes through the use of a standardized method that recognizes 
qualitative, quantitative, geographic, and temporal characteristics.”  Paragraph 83 of the Basis for Conclusions of 
SFAS 69.     

                                                       5 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 

gas production.  However, the numbers used in reserve reports for this purpose are expressly not 
                                                  4
considered “an estimate of fair market value.”  
         
        22.     Shortly after acquiring the Alaska Assets, Miller Energy’s CFO asked Hall -- a non-
accountant with no formal accounting training -- to obtain a reserve report for the Alaska 
properties in order to determine the fair value of the acquired assets to be reported on Miller 
Energy’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended January 31, 2010.  The CFO instructed Hall that the 
reserve report should use a pretax present value of net cash flows discounted at 10% (“PV-10”). 

        23.     On January 5, 2010, Hall hired a petroleum engineer firm to prepare the requested 
reserve report.   

        24.     The reserve report was finalized in February 2010 and reflected PV-10 of $368 
million. The $368 million reserve report value did not represent fair value in part because the $237 
million of projected operating and capital expenses that Hall provided the petroleum engineer were 
unrealistically low, resulting in an overstated valuation.  

        25.     In fact, when Hall contacted the petroleum engineer firm that the prior owners of 
the Alaska Assets had used, that firm advised that the expected level of expenses made a 
significant portion of the acquisition unprofitable.  Specifically, that firm told Hall that it would not 
assign any value to one of the largest fields acquired, the Redoubt Shoal field, because it was 
uneconomical – i.e., expected future expenses exceeded expected future cash flows – and 
explained that it would not put its “name on a report that implies value exists where it likely does 
     5
not.”    

        26.     The Redoubt Shoal field – which represented $291 million of the $368 million in 
fair value recorded by Miller Energy for the reserves – showed positive future cash flows in the 
reserve report that was ultimately generated primarily because Hall gave the new engineer firm 
understated and unsubstantiated expense numbers.               

        27.     Hall knew the expense projections he provided to the petroleum engineer for use in 
the reserve report were, in many cases, significantly lower than past actual experience.  For 
example, internal documents maintained by Hall indicate that the cost to drill a new well in the 
Redoubt field was roughly $13 million.  However, Hall told the petroleum engineer firm to use a 
cost of $4.6 million per well in its reserve report.  And instead of using recent expense data, Hall 
gave the engineer firm nearly three year old operating expense data, which he revised down on the 
                                                 
4
        See Paragraph 77 of the Basis for Conclusion of  SFAS 69 (“Although it cannot be considered an estimate of 
fair market value, the standardized measure of discounted net cash flows should be responsive to some of the key 
variables that affect fair market value, namely, changes in reserve quantities, selling prices, production costs, and tax 
rates.”).   
5
        Unique among the oil and gas properties purchased by Miller Energy, Redoubt Shoal is an offshore field in 
Cook Inlet, Alaska, which requires the use of an offshore platform that sits in seventy feet of water, is accessible 
only by boat or helicopter, and drills to depths in excess of 12,000 feet.  Offshore drilling presents risks and costs 
not associated with onshore operations.           

                                                     6 
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 

pretext that Miller Energy could run a leaner operation than former operators of the properties.  By 
way of example, Hall told the engineer firm that the offshore Redoubt Shoal field would cost 
$399,000 per month to operate when it actually had cost the seller more than $600,000 per month 
and when internal estimates show that Miller Energy and Hall expected the field to cost more than 
$800,000 per month once fully operational.  Additionally, in some years, the report included zero 
expenses for operating the facilities in Redoubt Shoal and another field.    

       28.    Hall also knew that the expense projections he provided to the petroleum engineer 
for use in the reserve report were, in many cases, significantly lower than recent expense 
information and projections he had used in his own internal models and budgets.    

       29.    Overall, the reserve report implied operating expenses of $4 per barrel of oil 
equivalent (“boe”) for all categories of reserves.  That level of operating expenses was 
unreasonable in light of its predecessor’s actual operating expenses of $32.50/boe in 2008 and 
$55.42/boe in the first half of 2009, before the wells were shut-in.   

       30.    As a result of the understated expense information, the reserve report overvalued 
the oil and gas properties by tens of millions of dollars. 

       31.    Because Hall was aware that the expense information he provided to the petroleum 
engineer for inclusion in the reserve report was significantly lower than past actual experience and 
contrary to recent expense information and projections that Hall had used in his own internal 
models and budgets, Hall was aware that this expense information was understated.  Hall was also 
aware that providing understated expense information would cause the reserve report to inflate the 
value for the Alaska Assets’ oil and gas reserves. 

       32.    In its financial statements filed with the Commission, Miller Energy adopted the 
value reported in the reserve report as the fair value for the Alaska Assets’ oil and gas reserves.  
Hall knew or should have known that the value of the Alaska Assets as reflected in the reserve 
report would be incorporated into Miller Energy’s financial statements. 

              Hall Caused the Company to Misstate the Value of the Fixed Assets 

       33.    In addition to the $368 million value recorded for the oil and gas properties, Miller 
Energy also erroneously recorded a separate value of $110 million for acquired fixed assets, such 
as facilities and pipelines ancillary to the oil and gas reserves.   

       34.    In a February 8, 2010 email, Miller Energy’s CFO informed Hall that the CFO 
needed an amount to use as fair value for the fixed assets obtained as part of the Alaska acquisition.  
He noted that, ideally, the value should be what a willing buyer would pay for the assets, but “[i]n 
the absence of that, replacement values or something similar would probably work.”  Two days 
later, the CFO was sent an “asset replacement cost study” purportedly provided by an independent 
insurance broker, which appeared to list the replacement cost for the assets as $110 million.  The 
“study” was dated September 5, 2008, but “revised” on February 9, 2010.   

                                                 7 
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 

       35.    The CFO recorded the amount reported in the revised insurance study on Miller 
Energy’s balance sheet.   

       36.    The “asset replacement cost study” relied upon to support the $110 million fair 
value was actually a preexisting insurance study created by an insurance broker.  It had been 
refashioned at the direction of Hall and the CFO to appear as if a third party had derived the $110 
million value.  In truth, the numbers in the study had been given to the insurance broker, and its 
predecessor, by its clients (i.e., Miller Energy and the previous owners of the fixed assets) as far 
back as 2007 and had been used as starting points for other types of estimates, such as estimates for 
possible losses resulting from fire or natural disasters.  The two employees at the insurance broker 
who were most familiar with the original “Loss Estimates Study,” including the engineer who 
authored it, confirmed that no one at the broker ever tested or in any way double-checked the 
values given to them.   

       37.    On February 8, 2010, Hall directed Alaska personnel to contact the insurance 
broker and another oil and gas consulting company to ask them for a report reflecting fair value or 
replacement cost.  The insurance broker responded on February 9, telling Miller Energy in an 
email copied to Hall that it could not provide a report showing replacement costs.   

       38.    At Hall’s direction, Miller Energy’s Alaska personnel also contacted a separate 
consulting firm and sent it the insurance broker’s original 2008 insurance report.  Late on February 
8, the consulting firm informed Miller Energy that the insurance study it sent was a “good 
reference” but the report did not state “value or replacement cost.”  The firm offered to conduct its 
own analysis, but advised that the estimate would take “approximately 2-3 weeks to complete” and 
“cost around $15,000-$18,000.”   

       39.    Upon hearing the news that a new report might take two to three weeks, Alaska 
personnel, including Hall, called the CFO.  According to one participant on this call, the CFO said 
he could not wait weeks for a new report.  He “needed it quickly and he needed to base it on 
something . . . a professional had to sign off on it, not us, some third party. . . .”  During the call, 
the CFO and Hall decided to rely on numbers in the insurance report as replacement costs, despite 
Hall having been told by the broker that it could not provide Miller Energy with replacement costs.   

       40.    With the aim of making the report appear as though it reflected replacement costs, 
Hall provided a subordinate with edits to the 2008 insurance report that significantly altered its 
appearance, including changing its name from “Loss Estimates Study” to “Asset replacement cost 
study.”  Hall knew or should have known that the revised report, which Miller Energy gave to its 
outside auditor, omitted the insurance broker’s methodology and analysis.  As a result, the only 
numbers reflected in the revised report were the ones provided to the broker by Miller Energy and 
its predecessors. 

       41.    By using the reserve report and the “asset replacement cost study,” as a proxy for 
fair value, Miller Energy overvalued the Alaska Assets by more than $400 million.  Consequently, 
Miller Energy filed with the Commission financial reports that materially misstated the value of its 
assets, as follows:  Forms 10-Q for the third quarter of fiscal year 2010 and all three quarters of 

                                                 8 
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

 

fiscal years 2011 through 2015; Forms 10-K for fiscal years ended 2010 through 2014; the Form S-
1 filed on August 8, 2010; the Forms S-3 filed on September 6, 2012 and October 5, 2012; and 
prospectuses filed between August 25, 2010 through August 21, 2014 pursuant to Rule 424.   

       42.    In addition, the following financial reports that Miller Energy filed with the 
Commission materially misstated the Company’s net income: Forms 10-Q for the third quarter of 
fiscal year 2010, all three quarters of fiscal 2011, and the first two quarter of 2012; Forms 10-K for 
fiscal years ended 2010 through 2012; the Form S-1 filed on August 8, 2010; the Forms S-3 filed 
on September 6, 2012 and October 5, 2012; and prospectus supplements filed between August 25, 
2010 through August 21, 2014 pursuant to Rule 424.  In addition, the improper valuation of the 
Alaska Assets rendered no fewer than 15 Forms 8-K filed between March 2010 through at least 
December 2014 materially false and misleading.  

                                         VIOLATIONS 
                                                  
       43.    As a result of the conduct described above, Hall violated Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) 
of the Securities Act, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in the offer or sale of securities.  

       44.      As a result of the conduct described above, Hall caused Miller Energy to violate 
Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder, which require 
that every issuer of a security registered pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12 file with the 
Commission, among other things, annual, current, and quarterly reports as the Commission may 
require.     

       45.    As a result of the conduct described above, Hall caused Miller Energy to violate 
Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to make and keep 
books, records and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their 
transactions and dispositions of their assets.   

       46.    As a result of the conduct described above, Hall caused Miller Energy to violate 
Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, which requires all reporting companies to devise and 
maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance 
with GAAP.  
        
       47.    As a result of the conduct described above Hall violated Section 13(b)(5) of the 
Exchange Act, which prohibits any person from knowingly circumventing or knowingly failing to 
implement a system of internal accounting controls or knowingly falsifying any book, record, or 
account described in Section 13(b)(2) of the Exchange Act. 
        
       48.    As a result of the conduct described above, Hall violated Rule 13b2-1 under the 
Exchange Act, which prohibits any person from, directly or indirectly, falsifying or causing to be 
falsified any book, record or account described in Section 13(b)(2) of the Exchange Act. 
        

                                                9 
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

 

       49.    As a result of the conduct described above, Hall caused Miller Energy to violate 
Rule 12b-20 under the Exchange Act, which requires that, in addition to the information expressly 
required to be included in a statement or report filed with the Commission, there shall be added 
such further material information, if any, as may be necessary to make the required statements, in 
light of the circumstances under which they are made not misleading.  

                                       UNDERTAKING 

       50.    Hall undertakes and agrees that for a period of five years from the date of the 
issuance of the Order he will not act as an officer or director of any issuer that has a class of 
securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78(l)] or that is 
required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78o(d)].  
        
       51.    In determining whether to accept Hall’s Offer, the Commission has considered this 
undertaking. Should Respondent violate this undertaking, the Division of Enforcement may 
petition the Commission to reopen this proceeding solely for the purposes of determining whether 
Respondent violated Section 17(a)(1) of the Securities Act and/or Section 10(b) of the Exchange 
Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder and, if so, whether to impose an officer and director bar.  In such 
event, Respondent shall not be permitted to (1) oppose the petition, (2) challenge the validity of the 
Order; (3) contest the findings in the Order; or (4) assert the statute of limitations as a defense. 

                                               IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in the Respondent’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 

       A.      Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and Section 21C of the Exchange Act, 
Respondent Hall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future 
violations of Section 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act, Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 
13(b)(2)(B) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, 13a-13 and 13b2-
1 thereunder.  

        B.      Respondent Hall shall pay a civil money penalty in the amount of $125,000 to the 
 Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States 
 Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  Payment shall be made in the following 
 installments: $10,000 paid within 10 business days following entry of this Order, followed by 
 $10,000 quarterly payments (i.e. 90 days) for three years, with the final payment being $5,000.  If 
 any payment is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire outstanding 
 balance, plus any additional interest accrued pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717, shall be due and 
 payable immediately, without further application.  Payment must be made in one of the following 
 ways: 
 
                (1)     Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, 
                which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request; 

                                                10 
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

 

                (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via 
                Pay.gov through the SEC website at 
                http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or 
                (3)    Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or 
                United States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and 
                Exchange Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to: 
 
                               Enterprise Services Center 
                               Accounts Receivable Branch 
                               HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                               6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                               Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
        Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
David M. Hall as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a 
copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to M. Graham Loomis, Division of 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 950 East Paces Ferry Road, N.E., Atlanta, 
GA 30326-1382. 
         
       C.      Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be 
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To 
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor 
Action, he shall not argue that he is entitled to, nor shall he benefit by, offset or reduction of any 
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil 
penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset").  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a 
Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that he shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting 
the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the 
Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be deemed 
an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty 
imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" means a 
private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based 
on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this 
proceeding. 
         
                                               V. 

       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by 
Respondent, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other 
amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree 
or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by  

                               

                                               11 
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

 

Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set 
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 

 
       By the Commission. 

        

                                                              Brent J. Fields 
                                                              Secretary 

                                                 12 
 
