---------------------Page 1---------------------

                          UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                     Before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933  
Release No. 10002 / January 12, 2016 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 76876 / January 12, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3731 / January 12, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16729 
 
                                              
                                              
                                              
In the Matter of                           
                                           
      MILLER ENERGY                        
      RESOURCES, INC., PAUL W.            ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND 
      BOYD, CPA, DAVID M. HALL,           IMPOSING A CEASE -AND-DESIST 
      AND CARLTON W. VOGT, III ,          ORDER AND PENALTIES PURSUANT TO 
      CPA                                 SECTION 8A OF THE  SECURITIES ACT 
                                          OF 1933 AND SECTION 21C OF THE 
Respondent s.                             SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
                                          AS TO MILLER ENERGY RESOURCES, 
                                          INC. 
                                           
 
                                              
 
                                         I. 
 
      On August 6, 2015, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) instituted 
proceedings pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 
21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Miller Energy Resources, 
Inc. (“Miller Energy” or “Respondent”). 
 
                                         II. 
 
      Respondent has submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has 
determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings 
brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party and without 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 

admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission's jurisdiction over it and the 
subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this 
Order Making Findings and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order and Penalties Pursuant to 
Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 As To Miller Energy Resources, Inc. (the “Order”), as set forth below. 
 
 
                                               III. 
 
                                                                                1
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that: 
 
                                          SUMMARY 
                                                  
       1.      This case involves financial accounting and reporting fraud, as well as audit 
failures, related to the valuation of certain oil and gas assets acquired by Miller Energy, an oil and 
gas company headquartered in Knoxville, Tennessee.  Miller Energy purchased these assets, which 
are located in Alaska, for $2.25 million in cash – along with the assumption of certain liabilities it 
valued at approximately $2 million – during a competitive bid in a bankruptcy proceeding in 
December 2009.   
                                           
       2.      The Company subsequently reported those assets at an overstated value of $480 
million, and recognized a one-time “bargain purchase” gain of $277 million for its fiscal third 
quarter ended January 2010 and fiscal year ended April 2010.   
        
       3.      Miller Energy failed to account for the acquisition in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).  Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 805, 
Business Combinations, required Miller Energy to record the value of its acquired Alaska assets at 
“fair value.”  However, contrary to authoritative accounting guidance, Miller Energy’s then-CFO 
(“CFO”) used as fair value a reserve report that was prepared by a petroleum engineer firm using 
the rules for supplemental oil and gas disclosures.  As set forth in GAAP, the numbers used in 
these supplemental disclosures do not reflect fair value, and the reserve report used by the CFO 
expressly disclaimed that the numbers therein represented the engineer firm’s opinion of fair value.  
The reserve report the CFO used also contained expense numbers that were knowingly understated 
by the CEO of Miller Energy’s Alaska operations (“Alaska CEO”).  In addition, the CFO double 
counted $110 million of certain fixed assets that were already included in the reserve report.      

                                        RESPONDENT 

       4.      Miller Energy Resources, Inc. is a Tennessee corporation with its principal place 
of business in Knoxville, Tennessee.  It operates and develops oil and gas wells in north and south 
central Alaska.  The Company operated oil and gas assets in the Appalachian region of east 
Tennessee until selling them in November 2014 for $3.3 million in cash.  It changed its name from 

                                                 
1
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding 
on any other person in this or any other proceeding. 

                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 

Miller Petroleum to Miller Energy Resources in April 2011.  Miller Energy’s securities, registered 
pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12(b), were listed on the NYSE until September 2015, when the 
securities were delisted.  On October 1, 2015, Miller Energy filed a voluntary petition for 
reorganization under chapter 11 of title 11 of the U.S. Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court 
for the District of Alaska (the “Bankruptcy Case”).     

                                             FACTS 

                                           Background 

       5.      Miller Energy was founded in 1967 as an oil and gas exploration and production 
company, and went public via a reverse merger in 1996.  Between early 2002 and December 2009, 
Miller Energy’s stock price regularly traded below one dollar per share, falling to a low of $0.04 
per share in December 2007.  In August 2008, Miller Energy named a new CEO.  Soon thereafter, 
the Company began acquiring additional oil and gas properties. 
        
                   Miller Energy Acquires and Overvalues the Alaska Assets 

       6.      In the fall of 2009, Miller Energy became aware of certain oil and gas properties in 
Alaska that were in the process of being “abandoned” as part of the bankruptcy proceedings of a 
California-based energy company.   

       7.      Unable to service its heavy debt and pay the significant monthly costs required to 
operate the properties, the bankrupt entity unsuccessfully sought for almost a year to sell its Alaska 
assets.  Beginning in December 2008, months before it filed for bankruptcy, the former owner of 
the assets, with the help of one of the world’s leading financial advisory and asset management 
firms, marketed the same group of assets that Miller Energy ultimately bought to 40 potential 
buyers.  This process failed to attract any bidders, and the assets were auctioned by the bankruptcy 
court in July 2009, with the winning bidder agreeing to a total purchase price of $8 million for the 
assets.  A second entity, who bid $7 million, was designated as the back-up purchaser.  Neither 
bidder closed.    

       8.      As a result, the former owner of the assets sought in August 2009, and was granted 
in September, an order from the bankruptcy court allowing it to abandon title to the assets due to a 
lack of interest.   

       9.      Due to renewed interest in the assets following their abandonment from Miller 
Energy, the bankruptcy court permitted the debtor to reacquire the Alaska assets and sell them to 
Miller Energy in a competitive auction for $2.25 million in cash and the assumption of certain 
limited liabilities.  The transaction closed on December 10, 2009.   

       10.    On March 22, 2010, Miller Energy filed its quarterly report on Form 10-Q for its 
fiscal third quarter ended January 31, 2010 and reported a value of $480 million for the Alaska 
acquisition, which amount was comprised of $368 million for oil and gas properties and $110 
million for fixed assets.  Miller Energy also reported an after-tax $277 million “bargain purchase 
gain,” which boosted net income for the quarter to $272 million – an enormous increase over the 
$556,097 loss reported for the same period the year before. 

                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 

       11.    As detailed below, these inflated balance sheet and income statement numbers were 
repeated in numerous documents subsequently filed with the Commission.   

       12.    The newly-booked value of the Alaska acquisition, which resulted in a nearly 
5,000% increase in Miller Energy’s total assets, had a significant impact on Miller Energy’s stock 
price.  On December 10, 2009, the date of the transaction, Miller Energy’s stock closed at $0.61 
per share.  By March 31, 2010, Miller Energy’s stock closed 982% higher at $6.60 per share.  
Weeks later, its stock began trading on NASDAQ and, after moving to the NYSE a year later, 
reached an all-time high price on December 9, 2013 of $8.83 per share.   

       13.    As described in detail below, Miller Energy materially overstated the value of its 
Alaska assets by more than four hundred million dollars.     

                           Under GAAP, Miller Energy Was Required 
                          to Record the Alaska Acquisition at Fair Value 

       14.    ASC 805, Business Combinations – formerly Statement of Financial Accounting 
Standards (“SFAS”) 141(R) – became effective in December 2008.  Among its principal revisions, 
ASC 805 requires acquisitions that result in a “bargain purchase,” e.g., entities purchased at fire 
sales prices in non-orderly transactions, to be measured at fair value, with any resulting gain 
recorded on the income statement.    

       15.    ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements (formerly SFAS 157), provides the framework 
for measuring fair value.  “Fair value” is defined in ASC 820 as “the price that would be received 
to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at 
the measurement date.”  A reporting entity must determine an appropriate fair value using one or 
more of the valuation techniques described in accounting literature.  

       16.    ASC 820 outlines three broad approaches to measure fair value: the market 
approach, income approach, and cost approach.  Under the market approach, prices and other 
relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable assets or 
liabilities are used to measure fair value.  The income approach utilizes valuation techniques to 
convert future amounts to a single discounted present value amount.  Finally, the cost approach is 
based on the amount that currently would be required to replace the assets in service, i.e., current 
replacement cost.   

       17.    ASC 820 emphasizes that fair value is a market-based measurement, not an entity-
specific measurement, and should be determined based on the assumptions market participants 
would use in pricing the asset or liability.   

       18.    ASC 820 emphasizes that when a price for an identical asset or liability is not 
observable entities should use a “valuation technique that maximizes the use of relevant observable 

                                                4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 

inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs” and entities may not ignore assumptions 
                                  2
market participants would use.         

        19.      When computing their estimate of fair value, Miller Energy and the CFO failed to 
consider the existence of numerous, readily apparent data points strongly indicating that the assets 
were worth substantially less than the $480 million value Miller Energy recorded.  In failing to do 
so, Miller Energy and the CFO materially overstated the value of the newly acquired Alaska assets.   

        20.     As described below, Miller Energy purported to value its Alaska acquisition using 
the income approach for the oil and gas reserves and the cost approach for certain fixed assets. 

                        The Valuation of the Acquired Oil and Gas Properties 
            Was Based Upon a Reserve Report, Which Does Not Represent Fair Value 

        21.     To record the value of the acquired oil and gas properties, Miller Energy and the 
CFO requested and improperly used a reserve report prepared by an independent petroleum 
engineer firm.   

        22.     Reserve reports are commonly used in the oil and gas industry to estimate quantities 
                                                                                        3
of oil and gas (the reserves) expected to be recovered from existing properties.            Generally, these 
reports list reserves in categories based on a minimum est      imated percentage probability of eventual 
recovery and production,    i.e., proved, probable, and possible.  Information in reserve reports that 
are prepared in accordance with Commission regulations is frequently used, for among other 
purposes, to satisfy supplemental accounting disclosure requirements concerning estimates of 

                                                 
2
 ASC 820 defines “unobservable inputs” as “inputs that reflect the reporting entity’s own assumptions about the 
assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on the best information 
available in the circumstances” and “observable inputs” as “inputs that reflect the assumptions market participants 
would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on market data obtained from sources independent of the 
reporting entity.”  
3
 Oil and gas reporting companies are subject to two principal authoritative pronouncements governing financial 
accounting and reporting for oil and gas activities: Rule 4-10 of Regulation S-X ( 17 C.F.R. 210.4 -10),  Financial 
Accounting and Reporting for Oil and Gas Producing Activities Pursuant to the Federal Securities Laws and the 
Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975 (“Rule 4-10”); and ASC 932-235-50-29 through 33 (formerly SFAS 
19, Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Companies and SFAS 69, Disclosures About Oil 
and Gas Producing Activities).  ASC 932 establishes disclosure requirements for significant oil and gas activities, 
including disclosure of the “standardized measure,” which is the future after-tax net cash flows discounted at 10%. 
A non-GAAP measure known as “PV-10” is similar to the standardized measure but is typically presented on a 
pretax basis.  The FASB has noted that the standardized measure supplies investors with useful information, 
however, they also noted their concern “that users of financial statements understand that it is neither fair market 
value nor the present value of future cash flows. It is a rough surrogate for such measures, a tool to allow for a 
reasonable comparison of mineral reserves and changes through the use of a standardized method that recognizes 
qualitative, quantitative, geographic, and temporal characteristics.”  Paragraph 83 of the Basis for Conclusions of 
SFAS 69.     

                                                       5  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 

future oil and gas production.  However, the numbers used in reserve reports for this purpose are 
                                                             4
expressly not considered “an estimate of fair market value.”  

       23.    Shortly after the acquisition, the CFO asked the Alaska CEO – a non-accountant 
with no formal accounting training – to obtain a reserve report for the Alaska properties in order to 
determine the fair value of the acquired assets to be reported on Miller Energy’s Form 10-Q for the 
quarter ended January 31, 2010.   

       24.    On January 5, 2010, the Alaska CEO hired a petroleum engineer firm to prepare a 
reserve report using a pretax present value of net cash flows discounted at 10% (“PV-10”), which, 
while appropriate with further adjustments for SEC supplemental disclosures, was not indicative of 
fair value.   

       25.    The petroleum engineer firm did not know Miller Energy intended to use the report 
for fair value purposes and believed that the purpose of the report was for use as supplemental data 
in the company’s SEC disclosures.  Indeed, the two page engagement letter with the engineer firm 
includes no language about “fair value,” “fair market value” or authoritative accounting literature.     

       26.    The reserve report was finalized in February 2010 and reflected PV-10 of $368 
million.  

       27.    Upon receiving the reserve report, the CFO, without undertaking any additional 
analysis, merely recorded as the fair value of the acquired oil and gas properties the sum of the PV-
10 estimates for 100% of the proved, probable, and possible reserves, which increased the book 
value of Miller Energy’s oil and gas properties on its balance sheet by $368 million.   

       28.    The reserve report itself clearly stated that the numbers therein were not an estimate 
of fair market value.  Specifically, on page 3 of the report, it states that “[t]he discounted values 
shown are for your information and should not be construed as our estimate of fair market value.”  
the CFO never reviewed or questioned any of the reserve report’s assumptions or calculations, nor 
did he communicate with the engineer firm about the reserve report.  

       29.    The use of the PV-10 numbers as fair value conflicted with contemporaneous 
representations Miller Energy made to investors.  Specifically, in its fiscal 2010 Form 10-K, which 
was the first annual report that included the inflated values, Miller Energy expressly told investors 
that “[o]ur PV-10 measure and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows do not 
purport to present the fair value of our natural gas and oil reserves.”  Despite that disclosure, Miller 
Energy had actually used its PV-10 measure in that very same report as the fair value of its 
acquired properties.    

       30.    The $368 million reserve report value did not represent fair value for several 
reasons.   
                                                 
4
 See Paragraph 77 of the Basis for Conclusion of  SFAS 69 (“Although it cannot be considered an estimate of fair 
market value, the standardized measure of discounted net cash flows should be responsive to some of the key variables 
that affect fair market value, namely, changes in reserve quantities, selling prices, production costs, and tax rates.”).   

                                                  6  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 

       31.    Despite showing years of net profit that market participants would expect to be 
taxable, the reserve report did not make any adjustments for income taxes.    

       32.    At Miller Energy’s request, the reserve report used a 10% discount rate that was 
inappropriate under GAAP for determining fair value.  In a discounted cash flow model, a discount 
rate is used to account for the uncertainties associated with risk and the time value of money.  A 
discount rate is the required rate of return that an investor would demand – based on the risks 
associated with the benefit stream under consideration – to induce the investor to make an 
investment.  By failing to consider the discount rate using assumptions market participants would 
use, Miller Energy materially overstated the value of the acquired oil and gas properties.       

       33.    The valuation also overstated cash flows from certain categories of reserve 
estimates (e.g., “probable” and “possible” reserves) by failing to apply any risk weight to such 
reserves and the resulting cash flows.  Given the high degree of uncertainty associated with cash 
flows from these reserve estimate categories, they are required to be risk weighted in order to 
reflect an appropriate valuation. 

       34.    The reserve report did not include amounts for certain asset retirement obligations, 
i.e., the legal obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets.    

       35.    Finally, the $237 million of projected operating and capital expenses in the reserve 
report, which were provided by Miller Energy and the Alaska CEO, were intentionally understated, 
resulting in an overstated valuation.   

       36.    In fact, one petroleum engineer firm contacted but not used by Miller Energy 
thought that the expected level of expenses made a significant portion of the acquisition 
unprofitable.  Initially, the Alaska CEO contacted the petroleum engineer firm who had previously 
provided the past two owners of the properties with reserve reports, and thus had unfettered access 
to past operating data, and requested a quote for “updating” a prior reserve report.  That firm told 
the Alaska CEO that it would not assign any value to one of the largest fields acquired, the 
Redoubt Shoal field, because it was uneconomical – i.e., expected future expenses exceeded 
expected future cash flows – and explained that it would not put its “name on a report that implies 
                                      5
value exists where it likely does not.”    

       37.    The CFO was aware that Miller Energy chose the new firm because the prior firm 
would not assign any value to the Redoubt Shoal field.  The Redoubt Shoal field – which 
represented $291 million of the $368 million in fair value recorded by Miller Energy – showed 
positive future cash flows in the reserve report primarily because the Alaska CEO gave the new 
engineer firm understated and unsubstantiated expense numbers.  The CFO had previously been 

                                                 
5
 Unique among the oil and gas properties purchased by Miller Energy, Redoubt Shoal is an offshore field in Cook 
Inlet, Alaska, which requires the use of an offshore platform that sits in seventy feet of water, is accessible only by 
boat or helicopter, and drills to depths in excess of 12,000 feet.  Offshore drilling presents risks and costs not 
associated with onshore operations.           

                                                  7  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 

advised by Miller Energy’s independent auditor that the lack of any controls over the Alaska 
CEO’s expense estimates was a “concerning void.”             

       38.    Miller Energy and the Alaska CEO provided expense projections that, in many 
cases, were significantly lower than past actual experience.  For example, internal documents 
maintained by the Alaska CEO indicate that the cost to drill a new well in the Redoubt field was 
roughly $13 million.  However, the Alaska CEO told the engineer firm to use a cost of $4.6 million 
per well in its reserve report.  And instead of using recent expense data the Alaska CEO gave the 
engineer firm nearly three year old operating expense data, which he revised down on the pretext 
that Miller Energy could run a leaner operation than former operators of the properties.  By way of 
example, the Alaska CEO told the engineer firm that the offshore Redoubt field would cost 
$399,000 per month to operate when it actually cost the seller more than $600,000 per month and 
when internal estimates show that Miller Energy and the Alaska CEO expected the field to cost 
more than $800,000 per month once fully operational.  Additionally, in some years, the report 
included zero expenses for operating the facilities in Redoubt and another field.    

       39.    Overall, the reserve report implied operating expenses of $4 per barrel of oil 
equivalent (“boe”) for all categories of reserves.  That level of operating expenses was 
unreasonable in light its predecessor’s actual operating expenses of $32.50/boe in 2008 and 
$55.42/boe in the first half of 2009 before the wells were shut-in.   

       40.    By understating the expense numbers, Miller Energy overvalued its oil and gas 
properties by tens of millions of dollars. 

       The Fair Value of the Acquired Fixed Assets Was Double-Counted and Overstated 

       41.    In addition to the $368 million value recorded for the oil and gas properties, Miller 
Energy also erroneously recorded a separate value of $110 million for acquired fixed assets, such 
as facilities and pipelines ancillary to the oil and gas reserves.   

       42.    In a February 8, 2010 email, the CFO informed the Alaska CEO that he needed an 
amount to use as fair value for the fixed assets obtained as part of the Alaska acquisition.  He noted 
that, ideally, the value should be what a willing buyer would pay for the assets, but “[i]n the 
absence of that, replacement values or something similar would probably work.”  Two days later, 
the CFO was sent an “asset replacement cost study” purportedly provided by an independent 
insurance broker, which appeared to list the replacement cost for the assets as $110 million.  The 
“study” was dated September 5, 2008, but “revised” on February 9, 2010.   

       43.    Without any additional analysis, the CFO recorded the amount in the revised 
insurance study on Miller Energy’s balance sheet.   

       44.    The recording of assets at a value of $110 million was improper for several reasons.     

       45.    Miller Energy’s use of the values in the insurance study resulted in counting the 
value of the fixed assets twice, thereby overstating the value of such assets.  The reserve report 
Miller Energy relied on to value the acquired oil and gas properties used a discounted cash flow 
model.  Valuation specialists use such models to estimate the value of an enterprise’s “operating 

                                                 8  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

 

assets” – i.e., the assets employed to generate future cash flows – by converting future benefit 
streams into a net present value.  In Miller Energy’s case, the fixed assets in the insurance study 
were the very same operating assets that were expected to generate the future cash flows in the 
reserve report.  Accordingly, they should not have been separately valued.   

       46.    Prior to the acquisition, all of the production from the offshore Redoubt Shoal field 
ran through the Osprey platform, which had no processing facilities or power generating capability 
of its own.  Power was sent from generators housed within the Kustatan Production Facility to the 
platform via a subsea line, which was connected to an underground power grid that ran throughout 
all of the acquired properties.  Moreover, production from the offshore platform was sent onshore 
for processing through pipes to the Kustatan Production Facility.  Absent the platform, there would 
have been no way to obtain oil and gas from Redoubt Shoal without incurring upfront capital 
expenditures to replace the platform and its related infrastructure.  Similarly, without the other 
production facilities, the platform would have lacked power and somewhere to process its oil and 
gas.   

       47.    The reserve report Miller Energy used for the valuation recognized the 
interconnectedness of the properties, as it expressly listed the facilities and the offshore platform as 
assets used to generate the future cash flows.   

       48.    In short, because the fixed assets were integral to the operations of the acquired 
properties, their values were captured in the reserve report’s cash flows.  Consequently, by 
separately valuing the same operating assets, Miller Energy overstated the value of the Alaska 
assets by as much as $110 million.   

       49.    The insurance study also did not reflect fair value because the version of the 
insurance study used by the CFO purported to show “asset replacement cost.”   Absent further 
adjustments, replacement cost new does not qualify as fair value under GAAP.   

       50.    Miller Energy, at the direction of the CFO and the Alaska CEO, also refashioned a 
preexisting insurance study to make it appear that its own value of $110 million derived from a 
third party.  The numbers in the fixed asset study were given to the insurance broker, and its 
predecessor, by its clients (i.e., Miller Energy and the previous owners of the fixed assets) as far 
back as 2007 and were used as starting points for other types of estimates, such as estimates for 
possible losses resulting from fire or natural disasters.  The two employees at the insurance broker 
who were most familiar with the original “Loss Estimates Study,” including the engineer who 
authored it, confirmed that no one at the broker ever tested or in any way double-checked the 
values given to them.   

       51.    The CFO and the Alaska CEO knew or knowingly disregarded the fact that the 
insurance study did not reflect fair value or any analysis by the insurance broker.   

       52.    On February 8, 2010, the Alaska CEO directed Alaska personnel to contact the 
insurance broker and another oil and gas consulting company to ask them for a report reflecting 
fair value or replacement cost.  The insurance broker responded on February 9, and told Miller 

                                                 9  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

 

Energy in an email copied to the Alaska CEO that it could not provide a report showing 
replacement costs.   

       53.    Miller Energy also contacted a separate consulting firm and sent it the insurance 
broker’s original 2008 insurance report.  Late on February 8, the consulting firm informed Miller 
Energy that the insurance study it sent was a “good reference” but the report did not state “value or 
replacement cost.”  The firm offered to conduct its own analysis, but advised that the estimate 
would take “approximately 2-3 weeks to complete” and “cost around $15,000-$18,000.”   

       54.    Upon hearing the news that a new report might take two to three weeks, Alaska 
personnel, including the Alaska CEO, called the CFO.  According to one participant on this call, 
the CFO said he could not wait weeks for a new report.  He “needed it quickly and he needed to 
base it on something . . . a professional had to sign off on it, not us, some third party. . . .”  During 
the call, the CFO and the Alaska CEO decided to rely on numbers in the insurance report as 
replacement costs, despite the Alaska CEO having been told by the broker that it could not provide 
Miller Energy with replacement costs.   

       55.    With the aim of making the report appear as though it reflected replacement costs, 
the Alaska CEO provided a subordinate with edits to the 2008 insurance report that significantly 
altered its appearance, including changing its name from “Loss Estimates Study” to “Asset 
replacement cost study.”  The revised report, which Miller Energy gave to Sherb & Co., omitted 
the insurance broker’s methodology and analysis.  As a result, the only numbers reflected in the 
revised report were the ones provided to the broker by Miller Energy and its predecessors. 

       56.    As a result of the foregoing, Miller Energy overvalued the Alaska assets by more 
than $400 million. 

       57.    As a result of the fraudulent valuation, Miller Energy filed with the Commission 
financial reports that materially misstated the value of its assets, as follows:  Forms 10-Q for the 
third quarter of fiscal year 2010 and all three quarters of fiscal years 2011 through 2015; Forms 10-
K for fiscal years ended 2010 through 2014; the Form S-1 filed on August 8, 2010; the Forms S-3 
filed on September 6, 2012 and October 5, 2012; and prospectuses filed between August 25, 2010 
through August 21, 2014 pursuant to Rule 424.  The fraudulent valuation also resulted in Miller 
Energy filing with the Commission financial reports that materially misstated its net income, as 
follows: Forms 10-Q for the third quarter of fiscal year 2010, all three quarters of fiscal 2011, and 
the first two quarter of 2012; Forms 10-K for fiscal years ended 2010 through 2012; the Form S-1 
filed on August 8, 2010; the Forms S-3 filed on September 6, 2012 and October 5, 2012; and 
prospectus supplements filed between August 25, 2010 through August 21, 2014 pursuant to Rule 
424.  In addition, the fraudulent valuation rendered no fewer than 15 Forms 8-K filed between 
March 2010 through at least December 2014 materially false and misleading.  

                                         VIOLATIONS 

       58.    As a result of the conduct described above, Miller Energy violated Section 17(a)(2) 
and (3) of the Securities Act which prohibit fraudulent conduct in the offer or sale of securities.   

                                                10   
---------------------Page 11---------------------

 

       59.      As a result of the conduct described above, Miller Energy violated Section 13(a) 
of the Exchange Act, and Rules 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder, which require that every 
issuer of a security registered pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12 file with the Commission, 
among other things, annual, current, and quarterly reports as the Commission may require.    

       60.    As a result of the conduct described above, Miller Energy violated Section 
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to make and keep books, 
records and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their transactions and 
dispositions of their assets.   

       61.    As a result of the conduct described above, Miller Energy violated Section 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, which requires all reporting companies to devise and maintain a 
system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP.  

       62.    As a result of the conduct described above, Miller Energy violated Rule 12b-20 
under the Exchange Act which requires that, in addition to the information expressly required to be 
included in a statement or report filed with the Commission, there shall be added such further 
material information, if any, as may be necessary to make the required statements, in light of the 
circumstances under which they are made not misleading.   

                                       UNDERTAKINGS 

       Miller Energy undertakes to: 

       63.    Terminate the registration of any and all the Company’s securities with the 
Commission and suspend any continuing reporting obligations of the Company by the earlier of  
the effective date of Miller Energy’s Joint Plan of Reorganization [Docket No. 364 in Case No. 15-
00236 (the “Bankruptcy Case”) pending in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of 
Alaska (the “Bankruptcy Court”)], as approved by the Bankruptcy Court in the Bankruptcy Case, 
or June 30, 2016 (or such later date as the Commission may agree to in its sole discretion); 
        
       64.    Cooperate fully with the Commission’s staff (“Staff”) in any and all respects 
relating to or arising from the matters described in the Offer. In connection with such cooperation, 
Miller Energy undertakes to:  

               a.   produce, without service of a notice or subpoena, any and all documents and 
                   other information requested by the Staff;  

               b.   use its best efforts to cause its current and former employees to be interviewed 
                   by the Staff at such times as the Staff reasonably may direct;  

               c.   use its best efforts to cause its current and former employees to appear and 
                   testify truthfully and completely without service of a notice or subpoena as may 
                   be requested by the Staff;   

                                                11   
---------------------Page 12---------------------

 

       65.    For good cause shown, the Staff may extend any  of the procedural dates relating 
to the undertakings.  Deadlines for procedural dates shall be counted in calendar days, except that 
if the last day falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the next business day shall be considered to 
be the last day. 

       66.    Miller Energy shall certify, in writing, compliance with the undertaking(s) set forth 
above.  The certification shall identify the undertaking(s), provide written evidence of compliance 
in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient to demonstrate compliance.  The 
Commission staff may make reasonable requests for further evidence of compliance, and 
Respondent agrees to provide such evidence.  The certification and supporting material shall be 
submitted to Peter J. Diskin,  Assistant Regional Director, U.S. Securities and  Exchange 
Commission, 950 E. Paces Ferry Road, N.E., Atlanta, GA 30326, with a copy to the Office of 
Chief Counsel of the Enforcement Division, no later than sixty (60) days from the date of the 
completion of the undertakings.    

       67.    In determining whether to accept Miller Energy’s Offer, the Commission has 
considered these undertakings. 

                                               IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in the Respondent’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 

       A.      Respondent Miller Energy cease and desist from committing or causing any 
violations and any future violations of Section 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act, Sections 
13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 
13a-13 thereunder.  

       B.      Respondent Miller Energy shall pay a civil money penalty in the amount of 
$5,000,000.  In the event Miller Energy’s Plan is confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, the payment 
of such $5,000,000 civil penalty shall be accomplished by the Commission having an allowed 
general unsecured claim in Class 4 of the Plan in the amount of $5,000,000 and such claim shall be 
paid consistently with the payments made to Miller Energy’s other general unsecured creditors in 
Class 4 pursuant to the terms of the Plan.  In the event the Bankruptcy Case is dismissed without 
the confirmation by the Bankruptcy Court in the Bankruptcy Case of either (i) the Plan, or (ii) any 
other plan of reorganization for Miller Energy that treats the Commission’s $5,000,000 civil 
penalty as a general unsecured claim consistently with other allowed general unsecured claims 
against Miller Energy, then such civil penalty shall be paid by Miller Energy directly to the 
Securities and Exchange Commission in the following installments:  (i) $625,000 within five 
business days of the termination of the Bankruptcy Case, and (ii) three installments of $1,458, 
333.33 each due no later than the first, second and third annual anniversary of the entry of the 
Order, respectively. The Commission may distribute civil money penalties collected in this 
proceeding if, in its discretion, the Commission orders the establishment of a Fair Fund pursuant to 
15 U.S.C. § 7246, Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended. The 
Commission will hold funds paid pursuant to this paragraph in an account at the United States 

                                                12   
---------------------Page 13---------------------

 

Treasury pending a decision whether the Commission, in its discretion, will seek to distribute funds 
or, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3), transfer them to the general fund of the United 
States Treasury.   If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 
U.S.C. §3717, and the entire outstanding balance of civil penalty, plus any additional interest 
accrued pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, shall be due and payable immediately, without further 
application.  

       Any payment made outside of the Bankruptcy Case must be made in one of the following 
ways:   

               (1)    Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                      will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
                
               (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at  http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
                
               (3)     Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
               Enterprise Services Center 
               Accounts Receivable Branch 
               HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
               6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
               Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Miller Energy Resources, Inc. as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these 
proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Peter J. Diskin, 
Division of Enforcement, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, 950 East Paces Ferry Road, 
N.E., Atlanta, GA 30326-1382 

       D.      Regardless of whether the Commission in its discretion orders the creation of a Fair 
Fund for the penalties ordered in this proceeding, amounts ordered to be paid as civil money 
penalties pursuant to this Order shall be treated as penalties paid to the government for all 
purposes, including all tax purposes.  To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, 
Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor Action it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor 
shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any 
part of Respondent’s payment of a civil penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset").  If the court in any 
Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30 
days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this 
action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such 
a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the 
amount of the civil penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related 
Investor Action" means a private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of 

                                                13   
---------------------Page 14---------------------

 

one or more investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the 
Commission in this proceeding. 

       By the Commission. 

        

                                                              Brent J. Fields 
                                                              Secretary 

                                                 14   
