---------------------Page 1---------------------

                         UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                    Before the 
                  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
                                          
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 10037 / February 9, 2016 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 77087 / February 9, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3741 / February 9, 2016 
  
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17107 
 

                                            ORDER INSTITUTING 
In the Matter of                            ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-AND-
                                            DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
MONSANTO COMPANY,                           SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT 
SARA M. BRUNNQUELL, CPA,                    OF 1933, SECTIONS 4C AND 21C OF 
ANTHONY P. HARTKE, CPA, AND                 THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 
JONATHAN W. NIENAS,                         1934, AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                             COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
Respondents.                                MAKING FINDINGS AND IMPOSING 
                                            REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-
                                            AND-DESIST ORDER  
                                          
                                        I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act 
of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 
Act”) against Monsanto Company (“Monsanto”), Sara M. Brunnquell, Anthony P. Hartke, and 
Jonathan W. Nienas; and that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted 
against Brunnquell and Hartke pursuant to Exchange Act Section 4C and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of 
the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 

                                        II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order, as set 
forth below. 

                                                   III. 

                                                                                         1
        On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds           that : 

                                              SUMMARY 

        1.      Monsanto is an agricultural seed and chemical company that manufactures and 
sells glyphosate, a herbicide, under the trade name “Roundup.”  During fiscal years 2009, 2010, 
          2
and 2011,   Monsanto    improperly accounted for millions of dollars of     rebates   offered to Roundup 
distributors and retailers in the U.S. and Canada    to incent them to  purchase Roundup    .  Monsanto 
also improperly accounted for    rebate   payments  to Roundup customers in Canada, France, and 
Germany as   selling , general, and administrative expenses (“SG&A”) rather than rebates, which 
boosted Roundup gross profit in those countries.  Monsanto did not have sufficient internal 
accounting controls to identify and properly account for rebate payments promised to customers.   

        2.      As a result, Monsanto materially misstated its consolidated earnings, and its 
                                                          3
revenues and earnings for its Roundup business lines,       in its periodic reports filed with the 
                                                       4
Commission for    fiscal years 2009, 2010, and 2011.       As a result of the improper accounting   , 
Monsanto met    consensus   earnings -per -share   analyst   estimates for fiscal year 2009. 

        3.      On November 14, 2011, Monsanto restated its 2009 and 2010 annual reports on 
Form 10-K and its 2011 quarterly reports on Form 10-Q (collectively “the Restatement”). 

        4.      As a result of the conduct described herein, Monsanto violated Securities Act 
Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3), the reporting provisions of Exchange Act Section 13(a) and Rules 
12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13, the books and records provisions of Exchange Act Section 
13(b)(2)(A), and the internal accounting control provisions of Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(B).  

        5.      Sara M. Brunnquell, Monsanto’s External Reporting Lead, Anthony P. Hartke, a 
U.S. Business Analyst at Monsanto, and Jonathan W. Nienas, Monsanto’s former U.S. Strategic 
Account Lead, caused Monsanto to violate Securities Act Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3), 
Exchange Act Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A), and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13.  
These individuals also violated Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1, and Nienas violated Exchange Act 
Section 13(b)(5). 

                                                 
        1
         The findings herein are made pursuant to the Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not binding on 
any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
        2
         Monsanto’s fiscal year runs from September 1 to August 31. 
        3
         Monsanto’s periodic filings report the results of its Roundup business as part of the Agricultural 
Productivity segment.  
        4
         Monsanto filed earnings releases for 2009 , 2010 , and 2011 on Forms 8- K,  which   were  also  misstated. 

                                                    2  
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                         RESPONDENTS 

       6.      Monsanto Company is a Delaware corporation with its principal place of business 
in St. Louis, Missouri.  Monsanto’s common stock is registered with the Commission under 
Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker 
symbol “MON.”  Monsanto produces seeds and chemicals, such as Roundup, that are used in the 
agricultural industry.   

       7.      Sara M. Brunnquell, 45, is a resident of St. Louis, Missouri.  Brunnquell was the 
External Reporting Lead at Monsanto from April 2009 through October 2015.  In that capacity, 
she reported to the Controller of Monsanto.  Brunnquell currently holds the title of Global 
Commercial Operations Lead, Climate.  She is a Certified Public Accountant in the state of 
Missouri and maintained an active license from 1995 to 2004 and 2014 to 2015. 

       8.      Jonathan W. Nienas, 54, is a resident of Ballwin, Missouri.  Nienas, who had been 
an employee of Monsanto since 1980, was the U.S. Strategic Account Lead for the Roundup 
Division from September 1, 2009 until he retired in January 2014.  

       9.      Anthony P. Hartke, 46, is a resident of Chesterfield, Missouri.  Hartke held the 
title of U.S. Business Analyst in the Roundup Division from July 2008 to August 2010.  He is 
currently Regional FP&A Analysis Lead at the company.  Hartke is a Certified Public 
Accountant and maintained an active license in Missouri from 1994 to 2010.   

                                  ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 

       10.    The accounting standard governing Monsanto’s rebate programs is set forth in 
Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) Issue No. 01-9, “Accounting for Consideration Given by a 
Vendor to a Customer (Including a Reseller of the Vendor’s Products),” codified as ASC 605-
   5
50.    Specifically, Issue 6 of EITF 01-9 (ASC 605  -50-25-7) requires a vendor like Monsanto to 
recognize a rebate obligation as a reduction of revenue based on a systematic or rational 
allocation of the cost of honoring the rebate offer to each underlying transaction that results in 
progress by the customer towards earning the rebate.     Issue 4 of EITF 01  -9 (ASC   605 -50-25-3) 
requires a vendor to recognize the cost of certain sales incentives at the later of the date at which 
the related revenue is recognized or the date at which the sales incentive is offered.     

       11.     Issue 1 of EITF 01-9 (ASC 605-50-45-1) addresses the circumstances in which a 
vendor may record payments to customers as a cost or expense (e.g., under the SG&A 
accounting classification) rather than as a reduction of revenue.  EITF 01-9 (ASC 605-50-45-1) 
requires a vendor like Monsanto to recognize payments to customers to perform services on its 
behalf (and which provide an identifiable benefit to the vendor) as a reduction of revenue for the 
amount of the payments that exceeds the estimated fair value of the services rendered.  If the 
services provided by customers do not provide a benefit to the vendor, it should recognize the 
total amount as a reduction of revenue.   

                                                 
       5
         EITF 01-9 was the applicable accounting guidance during Monsanto’s fiscal year 2009 and was codified 
into the Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) within ASC 605-50 for fiscal years 2010 and 2011.   

                                                   3  
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                            FACTS 

    Monsanto Loses Roundup Market Share to Generic Producers in Fiscal Year 2009 

       12.    Roundup historically was one of Monsanto’s most profitable products, and the 
                                                 6
company sells it to both retailers and distributors.   After the patent expired in 2000,  competition 
from  g eneric glyphosate producers began to erode Monsanto’s profit margins.  By fiscal year 
2009, generic competitors were undercutting Monsanto’s prices in the U.S. and Canada by more 
than 70%.  Monsanto was losing share in these markets as customers – concerned that they could 
not profitably sell high-priced Roundup – shifted their purchases to generic brands.  By the end 
of fiscal year 2009, Monsanto had lost more than half of its share of the glyphosate market 
(dropping from 55% market share to less than 25%).   

       13.    Monsanto faced significant glyphosate price competition in fiscal year 2009.  
Instead of lowering Roundup prices in the U.S., the company rolled out several price protection 
programs in the second and third fiscal quarters to address customers’ concerns about the 
relatively high price of Roundup.  Customers believed that Monsanto would soon lower 
Roundup prices and were concerned that their high-priced Roundup inventories would be 
unprofitable.  The price protection programs were intended to persuade customers to purchase 
more Roundup.  By the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, Monsanto was well short of its annual 
gross profit goals for Roundup in the U.S., and many of its retailers held significant volumes of 
Roundup purchased at uncompetitive price levels.   

                            The 2010 U.S. Loyalty Bonus Program  

       14.    To address the channel inventory problem for retailers while still meeting 
Monsanto’s earnings goals for fiscal year 2009, Monsanto’s marketing group began developing a 
sales incentive program to provide rebates to customers to lower their inventory costs while 
encouraging them to purchase Roundup in fiscal year 2009. 

       15.    In late May 2009, Monsanto’s sales force began telling retailers in the U.S. that, if 
they “maximized” their Roundup purchases during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, 
Monsanto would allow them to participate in a loyalty program to be released in the first quarter 
of fiscal year 2010.  The sales force told retailers that this program, officially known as the 2010 
U.S. Loyalty Bonus Program (“LBP”), would make their inventories profitable despite 
anticipated Roundup price cuts.  In making these communications to retailers, Monsanto’s sales 
force used talking points on the LBP that Tony Hartke, an accountant working in the Roundup 
Division, had helped to develop and that Sara Brunnquell, the company’s External Reporting 
Lead at that time, had approved.   

       16.    Telling retailers about the LBP incented them to purchase Roundup in the fourth 
quarter of fiscal year 2009, despite the fact that generic alternatives were significantly less 
expensive at the time.  Customers purchased approximately 8.7 million Roundup Equivalent 

                                                 
       6
         Monsanto does not sell Roundup directly to growers. 

                                                4  
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                     7
Gallons (“REGs”)  in the fourth quarter, which represented approximately 33% of the Roundup 
that Monsanto sold in the U.S. in fiscal year 2009. 

        17.     Monsanto did not officially release the written details of the LBP in the U.S. until 
                                         8
August 20 and September 10, 2009.            Under the  LBP , if retailers achieved a 2010 sales target, 
they would be entitled to a rebate for each REG of Roundup held in            their  inventory at the end of 
fiscal year 2009.  The amount of the rebate was        equal to the difference between t     he price  retailers 
paid for Roundup in fiscal year 2009 and the new         fiscal year 2010   prices  , which  Monsanto 
released in late August and early September 2009         .   The Roundup   prices released at the beginning 
of fiscal year 2010   w ere approximately     50%  lower than   they had been in fiscal year 2009      .  The 
program documents for the LBP required retailers to complete certain activities in order to 
receive payments under the program (hereinafter “the LBP Requirements”).  For example, the 
LBP required retailers to fill their tanks with Roundup in the first quarter of fiscal year 2010 and 
to make Roundup their lead recommendation to growers.   

        18.     Monsanto prepaid the LBP rebates to retailers in the second quarter of fiscal year 
2010, well before they met their volume targets, if retailers had made “substantial progress” 
toward completing the LBP Requirements.  These payments totaled approximately $194 million.  
The program included a clawback mechanism by which Monsanto could recover any rebates 
from retailers that missed their annual volume targets by August 31, 2010.  Nevertheless, in May 
2010, Monsanto announced that it was waiving the LBP Requirements and would not clawback 
any unearned payments under the LBP. 

        19.     Monsanto improperly accounted for the LBP under EITF 01-9 (Issue 4) by 
recognizing the related revenue reductions in fiscal year 2010 and ignoring the fact that the 
company used the program to incent sales in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009.   

        20.     Hartke helped to prepare the program documents and obtain approval for the 
LBP, and Brunnquell approved the improper accounting methodology for the program.  In 
justifying this accounting treatment, Brunnquell indicated to the company’s outside auditor that 
the company had not communicated the LBP to customers until August 20, 2009.  That 
statement influenced the auditor’s conclusion that the LBP did not incent more than a de minimis 
amount of sales during fiscal year 2009, which ended on August 31, 2009.   

        21.     Brunnquell and Hartke knew or should have known that Monsanto’s sales force 
had used the LBP to incent retailers to purchase material amounts of Roundup in the fourth 
quarter of fiscal year 2009 and that EITF 01-9 (Issue 4) required Monsanto to record the portion 
                                                              9
of LBP costs related to those sales in fiscal year 2009.           

                                                  
        7
          The Roundup Equivalent Gallon is a benchmark to compare glyphosate products that have different 
concentration levels. 
        8
          Monsanto released a version of the LBP for a small customer base of its lowest quality of Roundup on 
August 20, 2009, and then it released another version of the LBP for the bulk of its Roundup products on September 
10, 2009.  The two different versions of the LBP were virtually identical.  
        9
          In the   Restatement, Monsanto treated the LBP as a five quarter program starting in the fourth quarter of 
fiscal year 2009 and, allocating the program costs based on actual and estimated sales, recognized $24 million in 
additional rebate   cost s during fiscal year 2009. 

                                                       5  
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                                 The 2010 Earnback Program 

       22.    In fiscal year 2009, Monsanto offered distributors a rebate on their total purchases 
of Roundup if they met agreed-upon volume targets.  Monsanto offered these rebates pursuant to 
separate agreements with each distributor called Long Term Agreements (“LTAs”).  LTAs 
generally contained a three-tiered volume target that allowed distributors to earn a progressively 
larger rebate percentage as their volume of purchases increased.  Distributors generally needed 
the LTA rebates in order to sell Roundup profitably. 

       23.    Throughout fiscal year 2009, Monsanto accrued substantial amounts pursuant to 
EITF 01-9 (Issue 6) to allocate LTA rebates to the underlying revenue transactions reflecting the 
distributors’ progress toward earning the LTA rebates.  It planned to recognize the rebates as a 
reduction in Roundup revenue generated in fiscal year 2009 consistent with a systematic and 
rational allocation required by GAAP.  

       24.    In the last few months of fiscal year 2009, Monsanto reversed approximately 
$57.3 million of these accruals because seven customers did not achieve their LTA targets and 
did not qualify for the LTA rebates.  The accrual reversal boosted Monsanto’s reported revenues 
and gross profit reported on a consolidated and segment basis for fiscal year 2009.  

       25.    Monsanto created the “2010 Earnback Program” to allow the seven distributors to 
“earn back” their LTA rebates in fiscal year 2010.  On paper, the program required these 
distributors to meet fiscal year 2010 volume targets and to complete a series of activities, such as 
promoting Roundup to retailers.  As with the LBP, Monsanto made prepayments to several of 
these distributors in the second quarter of fiscal year 2010 (December 2009), which were subject 
to clawback if the customers failed to meet their volume targets by the end of that fiscal year.  As 
with the LBP, Monsanto later waived the Earnback Program requirements in May 2010, 
including its right to clawback the prepayments. 

       26.    In fiscal year 2009, Monsanto’s second largest customer, Customer A, had a 
three-tiered LTA target, with minimum and maximum targets of 5.0 million and 5.7 million 
REGs.  The minimum rebate percentage was 6.5% and the maximum percentage was 10.5%.  
Customer A was approximately 200,000 REGs short of meeting its minimum LTA target (5.0 
million REGs) in August 2009, and it had submitted orders for enough additional REGs to meet 
the top-tier target (5.7 million REGs) and earn the 10.5% rebate.   

                                                10
       27.    On August 10, 2009, Jon Nienas       offered   Customer A the opportunity to be paid 
an amount calculated with the maximum LTA rebate percentage of 10.5%, if it agreed to 
purchase less than the minimum target of 5.0 million REGs.  As recorded in the 
contemporaneo  us notes of the Customer A   negotiator, Nienas   asked   Customer A to “not trigger 
[the] LTA” and indicated that “4,980[,000 REGs] will pay [the] LTA in full [at] 10.5%” with 
“[p]ayment by end of calendar year.”  He asked Customer A to hold its pending orders for 
Roundup to “appear as if [it] didn't make” its minimum LTA volume target for fiscal year 2009.  
He told Customer A that the 10.5% rebate payment would be tied to “activities” but that it should 

                                                 
       10
          At the time, Nienas was transitioning into the role of U.S. Strategic Account Lead in the Roundup 
Division. 

                                                 6  
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

easily achieve them.   

       28.    Customer A accepted Monsanto’s offer and earned the top-tier LTA rebate of 
10.5%, for a total payment of $20.2 million, while missing its minimum LTA target by less than 
100,000 REGs.  This rebate was paid under the Earnback Program. 

       29.    Monsanto prepaid the Earnback payment to Customer A in the second quarter of 
fiscal year 2010.  At the time of payment, Nienas sent a confirmation letter to Customer A 
stating that it had earned the payment (even though it had not met any fiscal year 2010 volume 
targets under the Earnback Program).  The purpose of the confirmation letter was to enable 
Customer A to record the payment in its fiscal year 2009.  Nienas knew that as of the date of the 
confirmation letter Customer A had not yet met any fiscal year 2010 volume targets under the 
Earnback Program. 

       30.    Similarly, at the end of fiscal year 2009, Monsanto’s largest Roundup customer, 
Customer B, was approximately 621,000 REGs from its minimum LTA target and about 2.5 
million REGs from its maximum target.  To achieve its maximum LTA rebate, Customer B 
                                                                         11
requested, and Monsanto initially agreed, to a “bill and hold” transaction,  because Customer B 
lacked the capacity to store the volume of Roundup needed to qualify for the maximum LTA 
rebate.  During the last week of the fiscal year, Nienas informed Customer B that the transaction 
would not be necessary.  Nienas said that Monsanto would pay Customer B its LTA rebate using 
the maximum percentage rate of 9.1% (resulting in a rebate of $24.3 million). 

       31.    Customer B asked for a written confirmation of Monsanto’s commitment to pay 
the maximum LTA rebate.  Upon learning of the request, Nienas told Hartke that Monsanto had 
agreed to pay Customer B at its maximum LTA rebate rate.  Hartke informed Nienas that the 
confirmation was not in accordance with the company’s delegation of authority policy, but did 
not take further action to ensure that the payment was properly recorded. 

       32.    On October 7, 2009, Customer B provided a draft confirmation letter to Nienas.  
Nienas executed the letter the following day promising that Monsanto would pay Customer B the 
maximum LTA rebate rate on fiscal year 2009 purchases of Roundup.  The rebate totaled $24.3 
million, and Monsanto later paid it in December 2009 under the Earnback Program.   

       33.    Monsanto relied upon the failures of Customers A and B to meet their minimum 
LTA volume targets as the basis for reversing LTA accruals in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 
2009.  Hartke participated in recording the reversal of these accruals.  The oral and written side 
agreements to pay Customers A and B their 2009 LTA rebates created rebate obligations for 
Monsanto in fiscal year 2009 and contradicted the basis for reversing the accruals, which Nienas 
and Hartke should have known.  Monsanto improperly increased its fiscal year 2009 revenues 
and gross profits by approximately $44.5 million when it deferred recording these liabilities until 

                                                 
       11
         In a “bill and hold” transaction, the vendor agrees to a customer request to store products that the 
customer has purchased.  The customer receives the risks and rewards of owning the products, despite the fact that 
they remain with the vendor for a certain period of time. 

                                                7  
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

                12
fiscal year 2010.  

                                 The 2011 Earnback Program 

       34.    The next year, Monsanto offered a second iteration of the Earnback Program for 
fiscal year 2011 to Customer B and its third-largest Roundup distributor, Customer C.  Both 
companies missed their 2010 LTA targets, but received their maximum LTA rebates in the form 
of Earnback payments in fiscal year 2011 (December 2010).  Monsanto reversed fiscal year 2010 
LTA accruals for these customers, which increased its reported revenues and gross profits on a 
consolidated and segment basis for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010. 

       35.    As with the 2010 Earnback Program, Monsanto prepaid the 2011 Earnback 
rebates to Customers B and C more than eight months before the program was scheduled to end.  
Although the 2011 Earnback program obligated the distributors to perform certain activities and 
to purchase Roundup in the future, Nienas provided confirmations to Customers B and C, at the 
time of prepayment, stating that they had met all program requirements necessary to earn the 
payments.  Nienas knew that the customers had not met the requirements of the 2011 Earnback 
Program in December 2010 when he signed the confirmations.  The 2011 Earnback payments to 
Customers B and C totaled approximately $48 million.   

       36.    The manner in which Monsanto administered the previous Earnback Program in 
2010 – by using side agreements with the customers and subsequently waiving the clawback 
provisions – demonstrated that Monsanto also lacked the intent to enforce the terms of the 2011 
Earnback Program.  By the end of fiscal year 2010, competitive pressures in the Roundup 
business also made it highly unlikely that Monsanto would deny LTA payments to large 
distributors that relied upon the LTA payments to sell Roundup profitably (as they would likely 
shift their glyphosate purchases to generic manufacturers if Monsanto actually withheld their 
LTA payments).  In these circumstances, all $48 million of the rebate costs for the “2011” 
Earnback Program should have been recorded in fiscal year 2010, as Monsanto lacked an 
                                                                                        13
appropriate basis under ASC 605-50 to recognize any of these costs to fiscal year 2011.    

                         The 2010 Loyalty Bonus Program in Canada 

       37.    Low-priced generic glyphosate had the same effect in Canada in early 2009 as it 
had in the U.S., and Monsanto responded similarly by announcing a price protection program in 
April 2009 without actually lowering prices.  The program was called the Price Risk Protection 
Program (“PRPP”), and it covered Roundup purchased in Canada through the end of calendar 
year 2009 (spanning fiscal years 2009 and part of 2010) that remained in a customer’s inventory 
at the time of any price decrease that year.  

       38.    When Monsanto lowered U.S. prices in September 2009, it did not immediately 
follow suit in Canada because the PRPP would have triggered significant payment obligations 

                                                 
       12
         In the Restatement, Monsanto recognized the costs of the 2010 Earnback Program over fiscal years 2009 
and 2010, based upon actual and projected sales volume.  Monsanto recorded approximately $20 million in 
Earnback rebates in fiscal year 2009 and approximately $41 million in fiscal year 2010. 
       13
         In its Restatement, Monsanto recorded the $48 million as a reduction of revenue in fiscal year 2010. 

                                                8  
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

that year.  Under EITF 01-9 and ASC 605-50-25-1, Monsanto would have been required to 
accrue for payment obligations under the PRPP if it expected to lower prices in 2009.  Monsanto 
represented to its auditor that it did not intend to lower Roundup prices in Canada during 
calendar year 2009 (the term of the PRPP).  Before the end of fiscal year 2009, Monsanto began 
planning to cancel the PRPP so it could lower Canadian prices without triggering the accrual 
obligation.  Monsanto, however, could not cancel the PRPP unilaterally – it needed customers to 
surrender their rights under the program as they had relied on the PRPP in purchasing Roundup 
during fiscal year 2009.  Monsanto thus offered them an inducement to cancel the PRPP.  
Specifically, Monsanto’s sales and marketing employees promised customers that, if they signed 
cancellation forms, it would pay them amounts equivalent to the amounts payable under the 
PRPP through a sales incentive program similar to the U.S. LBP (hereinafter “the LBP Canada”).  
Customers responsible for purchasing approximately 89% of the Roundup that Monsanto sold in 
Canada agreed to the program switch and executed written cancellation forms in late September 
2009. 

       39.    Shortly thereafter, Monsanto’s External Reporting Lead, Sara Brunnquell, asked 
the company’s auditor what the effect of cancelling the PRPP would be, without disclosing that 
certain customers had already signed the cancellation forms.  The lead client service partner for 
the audit firm told Brunnquell that there could be accounting consequences in fiscal year 2009, 
because presumably Monsanto would have to pay customers consideration for their agreement to 
cancel the PRPP.  After this discussion with the company’s auditor, she decided to treat the 
cancellations as being ineffective for accounting purposes.  Brunnquell later made written 
representations to the auditor that the PRPP was still in effect several weeks after certain 
customers had signed the cancellation forms.   

       40.    Monsanto rolled out the LBP Canada to customers in late September 2009 and 
began paying rebates under the program in January 2010.  Monsanto calculated these rebates by 
multiplying the number of gallons in each customer’s ending inventory as of September 9, 2009 
by the difference between the prices customers originally paid for Roundup and the new prices 
that Monsanto expected to release in January 2010.   

       41.    Monsanto improperly recorded approximately $43 million in rebates under the 
LBP Canada as a reduction of revenue in fiscal year 2010.  Brunnquell approved this accounting 
treatment, even though she knew or should have known that customers had signed the PRPP 
cancellations and that Monsanto had offered the LBP Canada to induce them to do so.  She 
should have known that EITF 01-9 and ASC 605-50-25 required Monsanto to record the rebate 
                                                                                   14
obligations under the LBP Canada as a reduction in revenue during fiscal year 2009.     

                            The 2010 SG&A Program in Canada 

       42.    When Monsanto eventually lowered Roundup prices in Canada in January 2010, 
it had to lower them further than it had originally planned when it released the LBP Canada.  The 
reason was that the price of competitors’ glyphosate had fallen further than Monsanto had 
expected.  But lowering Roundup prices by an additional increment meant that the fixed rebates 
under the LBP Canada were insufficient to make the Roundup volumes held by customers 

                                                 
       14
         Monsanto did not address the LBP Canada in its Restatement. 

                                               9  
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

competitive.  To bridge this unexpected gap, Monsanto offered and paid a second round of 
rebates to Canadian customers through a program it called the “LBP2.”   

       43.    In early March 2010, executives at Monsanto approved the LBP2, which was 
budgeted to rebate customers approximately $18 million.  Monsanto planned to account for the 
LBP2 as a reduction in revenue which would have decreased its net sales and gross profits in 
Canada.  Monsanto began paying the LBP2 rebates to customers by issuing them credits on 
account or, in some cases, checks. 

       44.    In April 2010, Monsanto’s executives, with assistance from Brunnquell, decided 
to convert the LBP2 from a rebate program to a program where the payments would be recorded 
as SG&A expenses.  Certain expenses related to SG&A programs, in which a vendor pays its 
customers to perform marketing services on its behalf, are not recorded as reductions of revenue 
and therefore do not affect gross profit.   

       45.    Monsanto’s employees in Canada created program documents that detailed 
certain marketing services that customers were supposed to perform for Monsanto.  They 
internally set the value of the services at approximately $18 million, with a pre-determined 
amount for each customer that exactly equaled the rebates that the approved LBP2 had already 
paid them.   

       46.    Monsanto obtained a fair value estimate of the services from an independent 
marketing company, and it showed the services were worth approximately $6 million.  Monsanto 
did not use the estimate and instead its employees created an internal cost estimate to set the 
amount at approximately $18 million.  There is no evidence that the internal cost estimate 
accurately reflected the fair value of the services. 

       47.    To obtain payments under the SG&A program, customers had to certify that they 
performed the marketing services described in the program documents.  Customers signed the 
certifications, but there is no other evidence that they performed these marketing services for 
Monsanto. 

       48.    To account for the SG&A payments, Monsanto reversed the LBP2 rebate credits 
on customer accounts and then re-posted these same amounts to the customer accounts as SG&A 
payments consistent with the amounts in the unsupported internal cost estimate. 

       49.    In the end, the SG&A program in Canada cost approximately $14 million, and not 
                                                                               15
$18 million, because one customer refused to sign the program certification.       Monsanto 
improperly accounted for the  se program costs  as SG&A   expense  s  in fiscal year 2010.  
Brunnquell approved the accounting treatment, even though      she  should have known that the 
payments were rebates   and  that Monsanto did not receive an identifiable benefit from the 
customers under  ASC 605   -50-4 5 -2 .  Monsanto was required to record these   rebate   payments as a 

                                                  
       15
          At the time, Monsanto nevertheless paid the rebate to the customer and recorded the payment as a 
reduction of revenue in fiscal year 2010. 

                                                 10   
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

                                         16
reduction of revenue in fiscal year 2010.     

                     The 2010 SG&A Programs in France and Germany 

       50.    In France and Germany, Monsanto’s customers had large inventories of Roundup 
bought at the high fiscal year 2009 prices that they could not profitably sell in fiscal year 2010.  
Without some form of rebate, these customers were unlikely to purchase more Roundup. 

       51.    Monsanto decided to make payments to customers in France and Germany 
                            17
through an SG&A program.        Monsanto’s employees drafted a program in which customers 
received $5 for each liter of Roundup that they sold from inventory.  The program’s budget was 
$24 million for France and $8.5 million for Germany.  Customers were supposed to treat 25% of 
the payments as compensation for providing marketing services to Monsanto.  Monsanto 
expected customers to use the other 75% of the money for “price supports,” which were 
essentially rebates.   

       52.    Monsanto offered the same SG&A program in Germany in fiscal year 2011 
(approximately $10 million). 

       53.    There is no evidence that customers performed any marketing services on 
Monsanto’s behalf.  

       54.    Monsanto improperly accounted for the payments in France and Germany as 
SG&A expenses.  Monsanto knew or should have known that it did not receive an identifiable 
benefit from the customers under ASC 605-50-45-2.  Therefore, it was required to record these 
rebate costs as a reduction of revenue in the fiscal years in which the payments were made (i.e., 
                18
2010 and 2011).    

               Monsanto Offered Securities During the Relevant Time Period 

       55.    Monsanto offered securities in fiscal years 2009, 2010, and 2011 pursuant to a 
Form S-8 that it originally filed on January 21, 2005.  The Form S-8 incorporated by reference 
all subsequent periodic filings under the Exchange Act for securities sold under this registration 
statement.  Thus, it incorporated Monsanto’s Forms 10-K for fiscal years 2009 and 2010 and its 
Forms 10-Q for fiscal year 2011.  

       56.    Monsanto also filed a Form S-3ASR (automatic shelf registration) on October 31, 
2008, which incorporated by reference subsequent periodic filings under the Exchange 
Act.  When Monsanto filed a Form 424B2 prospectus supplement on April 13, 2011, it 
incorporated by reference the company’s Form 10-K for fiscal year 2010.  

                                                 
       16
          In its Restatement, Monsanto recorded the payments under this program as a reduction of revenue in 
fiscal year 2010 and not as SG&A. 
       17
          Monsanto could not use a rebate program like the U.S.  LBP because of concerns that it might violate 
antitrust laws in the European Union.   
       18
          Monsanto’s Restatement did not address the programs in France or Germany. 

                                                11   
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

                                        VIOLATIONS 

       57.    Securities Act Section 17(a)(2) prohibits any person from obtaining money or 
property in the offer or sale of securities by means of any untrue statement of a material fact or 
any omission to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in light of 
the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. 

       58.    Securities Act Section 17(a)(3) prohibits any person from engaging in any 
transaction, practice, or course of business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit 
upon the purchaser in the offer or sale of securities. 

       59.    Exchange Act Section 13(a) and Rules 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder 
require that every issuer of a security registered pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12 file with 
the Commission, among other things, annual, quarterly, and current reports as the Commission 
may require. 

       60.    Rule 12b-20 under the Exchange Act requires that, in addition to the information 
expressly required to be included in a statement or report filed with the Commission, there shall 
be added such further material information, if any, as may be necessary to make the required 
statements, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading. 

       61.    Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(A) requires reporting companies to make and 
keep books, records and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect 
transactions and dispositions of their assets. 

       62.    Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(B) requires all reporting companies to devise and 
maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance 
with GAAP. 

       63.    Exchange Act Section 13(b)(5) prohibits any person from knowingly 
circumventing or knowingly failing to implement a system of internal accounting controls or 
knowingly falsifying any book, record, or account described in Section 13(b)(2). 

       64.    Rule 13b2-1 under the Exchange Act prohibits any person from, directly or 
indirectly, falsifying or causing to be falsified, any book, record, or account subject to Exchange 
Act Section 13(b)(2)(A). 

       65.    As a result of the conduct described above, Monsanto violated Securities Act 
Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) and Exchange Act Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) 
and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder. 

       66.    As a result of the conduct described above, Nienas caused Monsanto to violate 
Securities Act Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3), Exchange Act Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A), and 
Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder.  Nienas also directly violated Exchange Act 
Section 13(b)(5) and Rule 13b2-1. 

       67.    As a result of the conduct described above, Brunnquell caused Monsanto to 

                                               12   
 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

violate Securities Act Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3), Exchange Act Sections 13(a) and 
13(b)(2)(A), and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder.  Brunnquell also 
        19
willfully  violated Rule 13b2 -1.  

       68.    As a result of the conduct described above, Hartke caused Monsanto to violate 
Securities Act Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3), Exchange Act Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A), and 
                                                                             20
Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder.  Hartke also willfully      violated Rule 13b2 -
1.  

                           MONSANTO’S REMEDIAL EFFORTS 

       In determining to accept Monsanto’s Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts 
undertaken by Monsanto and cooperation afforded the Commission staff in connection with its 
investigation. 

                                                IV. 

       Respondent Monsanto has undertaken to: 

A.     Retain, at Monsanto’s expense within 30 days of issuance of this Order, a qualified 
       independent ethics and compliance consultant (the “Consultant”) with extensive 
       experience in developing, implementing and overseeing organizational compliance and 
       ethics programs, not unacceptable to the staff, to conduct an ethics and compliance 
       program assessment of Monsanto’s Crop Protection business focused on the components 
       of the program delineated in (1)-(2) below.  The Consultant shall also have expertise in, 
       or retain someone with expertise in, internal accounting controls and public company 
       financial reporting as well as vendor rebate and market funding programs.  Taking into 
       account the Company’s remedial actions to date, Monsanto shall cause the Consultant to 
       analyze whether the components of Monsanto’s ethics and compliance program for its 
       Crop Protection business as they relate to the areas described in (1)-(2) below have been 
       implemented successfully and are having the desired effects.  The Consultant will 
       determine whether the culture is supportive of ethical and compliant conduct, including 
       strong, explicit, and visible support and commitment by the Board and senior 
       management.  In discharging this undertaking, the Consultant shall: 

       1.      evaluate and assess the effectiveness of the internal accounting controls and 
               financial reporting policies and procedures with respect to Monsanto’s rebate and 
               market funding programs for its Crop Protection business, including but not 
               limited to: 

                                                 
       19
          This use of the word “willfully” does not reflect a finding that Respondent acted with the intent to violate 
the law or knowledge that she was doing so.  A willful violation of the securities laws means “‘that the person 
charged with the duty knows what he is doing.’” Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000) (quoting 
Hughes v. SEC, 174 F.2d 969, 977 (D.C. Cir. 1949)).  There is no requirement that the actor “‘also be aware that he 
is violating one of the Rules or Acts.’” Id. (quoting Gearhart & Otis, Inc. v. SEC, 348 F.2d 798, 803 (D.C. Cir. 
1965)). 
       20
          See fn. 19, supra. 

                                                 13   
 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

                a.      whether Monsanto’s internal accounting controls with respect to 
                        Monsanto’s rebate and market funding programs for its Crop Protection 
                        business are sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that the 
                        company is maintaining fair and accurate books, records and accounts, 
                        with particular emphasis on whether they are designed to address the 
                        integrity of its revenue accounting and ensure consistent accuracy and 
                        integrity given the global nature of Monsanto’s business; and 

                b.     whether Monsanto has specific accounting and financial reporting 
                        controls and procedures sufficient to ensure that all rebate and/or market 
                        funding programs for its Crop Protection business comply with 
                        applicable accounting rules and policies. 

       2.     evaluate whether there are proper resources, oversight and independence of the 
              compliance and ethics function for the Crop Protection business, including 
              seniority of corporate executives responsible for implementation and oversight, 
              reporting lines, autonomy and independence, compensation and rewards, 
              consistent discipline, resources, and access to information and personnel.  The 
              review shall consider the sufficiency of training and guidance overall as well as 
              specifically related to anti-retaliation and whistleblowing policies. 

B.     Provide the Consultant with complete access and resources to review key documents 
       (e.g., business principles, Code of Conduct, policies and procedures, risk assessments, 
       performance evaluation forms, relevant internal training materials and internal 
       communications).  In reviewing the creation, administration and implementation of the 
       compliance and ethics program as it relates to the areas addressed in paragraph A, the 
       Consultant shall conduct an assessment survey and interview relevant personnel.  The 
       assessment need not be a comprehensive review of all business lines, activities and 
       markets, but may use a risk-based approach.  The Consultant shall consider, however, the 
       breakdown of internal controls in multiple markets in which the Crop Protection business 
       operated during the relevant time period of this action; 

C.     Provide a report to Commission staff and Monsanto’s General Counsel and Chief Ethics 
       and Compliance Officer, as described below, regarding the Consultant’s findings and 
       recommendations; 

D.     Provide a copy of the engagement letter detailing the Consultant’s responsibilities to 
       Brian O. Quinn, Assistant Director, Division of Enforcement, U.S. Securities and 
       Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549; 

E.     Cooperate fully with the Consultant, including providing the Consultant with access to its 
       files, books, records and personnel as reasonably requested for the above-described 
       review except to the extent such files, books, or records are protected from disclosure by 
       any applicable protection or privilege such as the attorney-client privilege or the attorney 
       work product doctrine. To the extent that the Consultant believes that documents are 
       being withheld unreasonably, Monsanto shall work cooperatively with the Consultant to 
       resolve the matter, and if they are unable to reach agreement, the Consultant shall 

                                               14   
 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

       promptly notify Commission staff. To ensure the independence of the Consultant, 
       Monsanto shall not have the authority to terminate the Consultant without prior written 
       approval of Commission staff and shall compensate the Consultant and persons engaged 
       to assist the Consultant for services rendered pursuant to this Order at their reasonable 
       and customary rates; 

F.     Require the Consultant to report to Commission staff on his/her activities as the staff 
       shall request; 

G.     Permit the Consultant to engage such assistance, clerical, legal or expert, as necessary 
       and at reasonable cost, to carry out his/her activities, and the cost, if any, of such 
       assistance shall be borne exclusively by Monsanto; 

H.     Require, within 120 days of the issuance of this Order (unless otherwise extended by 
       Commission staff for good cause), the Consultant to complete the review and report to 
       Commission staff and Monsanto’s General Counsel and Chief Ethics and Compliance 
       Officer concerning: 
        
       1.     the scope and methodologies used by the Consultant in order to complete the 
              review; 
        
       2.     Monsanto’s compliance with the review;  
        
       3.     the adequacy of Monsanto’s existing policies, practices and procedures regarding 
              the matters assessed; and 
        
       4.     the Consultant’s recommendations, if necessary, regarding modification or 
              supplementation of Monsanto’s policies, practices and procedures related to the 
              matters assessed (the “Recommendations”). 

I.      Adopt and implement, within 120 days of Monsanto’s receipt of the Recommendations, 
       all of the Recommendations; provided, however, that as to any Recommendation that 
       Monsanto considers to be, in whole or in part, unduly burdensome or impractical, 
       Monsanto may submit in writing to the Consultant and Commission staff (at the address 
       set forth above), within 60 days of receiving the Recommendations, an alternative policy, 
       practice or procedure designed to achieve the same objective or purpose. Monsanto and 
       the Consultant shall then attempt in good faith to reach an agreement relating to each 
       Recommendation that Monsanto considers to be unduly burdensome or impractical and 
       the Consultant shall reasonably evaluate any alternative policy, practice or procedure 
       proposed by Monsanto.  Such discussion and evaluation shall conclude within 90 days 
       after Monsanto’s receipt of the Recommendations, whether or not Monsanto and the 
       Consultant have reached an agreement.  Within 14 days after the conclusion of the 
       discussion and evaluation by Monsanto and the Consultant, Monsanto shall require that 
       the Consultant inform Monsanto and Commission staff (at the address set forth above) of 
       his/her final determination concerning any Recommendation that Monsanto considers to 
       be unduly burdensome or impractical.  Monsanto shall abide by the determinations of the 
       Consultant and, within 60 days after final agreement between Monsanto and the 

                                              15   
 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

       Consultant or final determination by the Consultant, whichever occurs first, Monsanto 
       shall adopt and implement all of the Recommendations that the Consultant deems 
       appropriate; 
 
J.      Require the Consultant to enter into an agreement that provides that, for the period of 
       engagement and for a period of two years from completion of the engagement, the 
       Consultant shall not enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or 
       other professional relationship with Monsanto or any of its present or former affiliates, 
       directors, officers, employees or agents acting in their capacity as such.  The agreement 
       will also provide that the Consultant will require that any firm with which he/she is 
       affiliated or of which he/she is a member, and any person engaged to assist the 
       Consultant in the performance of his/her duties under this Order shall not, without the 
       prior written consent of Commission staff, enter into any employment, consultant, 
       attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with Monsanto, or any of its 
       present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees or agents acting in their 
       capacity as such, for the period of the engagement and for a period of two years after the 
       engagement; 
 
K.     Certify, in writing, compliance with the undertakings set forth above, including 
       implementation of all Recommendations.  The certification shall identify the 
       undertakings, provide written evidence of compliance in the form of a narrative, and be 
       supported by exhibits sufficient to demonstrate compliance.  The Commission staff may 
       make reasonable requests for further evidence of compliance, and Respondent agrees to 
       provide such evidence.  The certification and supporting material shall be submitted to 
       Brian O. Quinn, with a copy to the Office of Chief Counsel of the Enforcement Division, 
       no later than sixty (60) days from the date of the completion of the undertakings. 
 
Monsanto may apply to Commission staff for an extension of the deadlines described above 
before their expiration, and upon a showing of good cause by Monsanto, Commission staff may, 
in its sole discretion, grant such extensions for whatever time period it deems appropriate. 

                                               V. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 

       Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Section 21C of the Exchange 
Act, and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, it is hereby ORDERED, 
effective immediately, that: 

       A.     Respondent Monsanto cease and desist from committing or causing any violations 
              and any future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act, 
              Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-
              20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder;  

       B.     Respondent Brunnquell cease and desist from committing or causing any 
              violations and any future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the 

                                               16   
 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

              Securities Act, Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 
              12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, 13a-13, and 13b2-1 thereunder; and  

       C.     Brunnquell is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
              Commission as an accountant. 

       D.     After two years from the date of this Order, Brunnquell may request that the 
              Commission consider her reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: 
              Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the 
              Commission as: 

              1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
                      review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with 
                      the Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                      Brunnquell’s work in her practice before the Commission will be reviewed 
                      either by the independent audit committee of the public company for 
                      which she works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as she 
                      practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or  

              2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
                      Commission that: 

                    a.      Brunnquell, or the public accounting firm with which she is 
                            associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting 
                            Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley 
                            Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                    b.      Brunnquell, or the registered public accounting firm with which she 
                            is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection 
                            did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the 
                            respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
                            that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                    c.      Brunnquell has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
                            has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed 
                            by the Board (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and  

                    d.      Brunnquell acknowledges her responsibility, as long as she appears 
                            or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
                            comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, 
                            including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, 
                            inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
                            standards. 

       E.     The Commission will consider an application by Brunnquell to resume appearing 
              or practicing before the Commission provided that her state CPA license is 
              current and she has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state 
              boards of accountancy. However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement 

                                               17   
 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

              by the Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other 
              merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the 
              matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Brunnquell’s character, 
              integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
              Commission. 

       F.     Respondent Hartke cease and desist from committing or causing any violations 
              and any future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act, 
              Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 
              13a-11, 13a-13, and 13b2-1 thereunder; and  

       G.     Hartke is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission 
              as an accountant. 

       H.     After one year from the date of this Order, Hartke may request that the 
              Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: 
              Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the 
              Commission as: 

              1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
                      review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with 
                      the Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                      Hartke’s work in his practice before the Commission will be reviewed 
                      either by the independent audit committee of the public company for 
                      which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he 
                      practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or  

              2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
                      Commission that: 

                    a.      Hartke, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
                            registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board 
                            (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and 
                            such registration continues to be effective; 

                    b.      Hartke, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
                            associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did 
                            not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent’s 
                            or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that the 
                            respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                    c.      Hartke has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has 
                            complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by 
                            the Board (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and  

                    d.      Hartke acknowledges his responsibility, as long as he appears or 
                            practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
                            comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, 

                                               18   
 
---------------------Page 19---------------------

                            including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, 
                            inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
                            standards. 

       I.      The Commission will consider an application by Hartke to resume appearing or 
              practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current 
              and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
              accountancy. However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
              Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits. The 
              Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters 
              referenced above, any other matters relating to Hartke’s character, integrity, 
              professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
              Commission. 

       J.      Respondent Nienas cease and desist from committing or causing any violations 
              and any future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act, 
              Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-20, 
              13a-1, 13a-11, 13a-13, and 13b2-1 thereunder. 

       K.     Within 7 days of the entry of this Order, Monsanto shall pay a civil money 
              penalty of $80,000,000; Brunnquell shall pay a civil money penalty of $55,000; 
              Hartke shall pay a civil money penalty of $30,000; Nienas shall pay a civil money 
              penalty of $50,000, to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the 
              general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 
              21F(g)(3).  If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue 
              pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717. 

       L.     Payments must be made in one of the following ways: 

              (1)    Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, 
                      which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon 
                      request; 

              (2)    Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or 

              (3)    Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to: 
            
                                  Enterprise Services Center 
                                 Accounts Receivable Branch  
                               HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                               6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                                  Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
                                                
       M.    Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter 

                                              19   
 
---------------------Page 20---------------------

              identifying the Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these 
              proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to 
              Brian O. Quinn, Assistant Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and 
              Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE, Washington, DC 20549. 

       N.     Respondent Monsanto shall comply with the undertakings enumerated above in 
              Section IV. 

       O.     It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth 
              in Section 523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order 
              are true and admitted by Respondents Brunnquell, Hartke and Nienas, and further, 
              any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other amounts 
              due by these Respondents under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent 
              order, decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, 
              is a debt for the violation by these Respondents of the federal securities laws or 
              any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) 
              of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 

       By the Commission.  

 

                                                           Brent J. Fields 
                                                           Secretary 
 

                                               20   
 
