---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 10337 / April 10, 2017 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 80407 / April 10, 2017 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3865 / April 10, 2017 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17911 
 
                                              ORDER INSTITUTING  CEASE-AND-DESIST 
In the Matter of                              PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO  SECTION 
                                              8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 AND 
    GALENA BIOPHARMA, INC.                    SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
    AND MARK J. AHN ,                         EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING 
                                              FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE -AND-
Respondent s.                                 DESIST ORDER  
 
                                                
 
                                           I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission  (“Commission”)  deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act 
of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 
Act”) against Galena Biopharma, Inc. (“Galena”) and Mark J. Ahn (“Ahn”) (together, 
“Respondents”).   
 
                                          II. 
 
      In anticipation  of the institution  of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission  has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission,  or to which the Commission  is a party, and without admitting  or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s  jurisdiction  over them and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondents 
consent to the entry of this Order Instituting  Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A 

 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making 
Findings,  and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (the “Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                                     III. 
 
                                                                                          1
        On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds           : 
 
                                               SUMMARY 
 
        From January 2012 to February 2014, Galena and its then-CEO Mark Ahn engaged in a 
scheme to mislead investors by commissioning  over 100 internet publications promoting  Galena 
that purported to be independent and objective when, in fact, they were paid promotions funded by 
Galena.  As CEO, Ahn, on behalf of Galena, engaged two firms, Lidingo  Holdings and the 
DreamTeam Group, that paid writers to communicate about Galena on investment websites through 
articles and/or postings without disclosing  that Galena had funded the communications.  On over 
forty occasions, the writers affirmatively misrepresented that they were not receiving payment for 
their articles other than from the website on which their articles appeared.  These omissions and 
misrepresentations about Galena’s funding  of the articles and postings created the misleading 
                                                                                               2
impression that the opinions  they contained were objective and independently  formed.             Some of 
the articles and postings  that  Galena funded   constituted  unlawful  prospectuses   transmitted  while 
Galena was   preparing  to offer or   offering securities.  As a consequence of this conduct   ,  Galena  and 
Ahn   violated the anti- fraud   provisions of the federal securities laws, caused violations of the anti -
touting   provisions, and engaged in  improper   “gun-jumping.”   
 
        Galena also violated the periodic reporting and books-and-records provisions of the federal 
securities  laws  in  connection  with  stock  options  it  granted  to  one  of  the  firms,  and, with Ahn, 
violated the securities registration provisions in connection with its issuance of shares to the firm 
                                       3
after the firm exercised its options.      Galena sold securities to Lidingo in an unregistered transaction 
when  it included stock options as part of Lidingo’s compensation for its promotional activities in 
the third quarter of 2013.  Thereafter, Galena sold shares to Lidingo in unregistered, non-exempt 
transactions  upon  Lidingo’s  exercise  of  those  stock  options  without  taking  reasonable  care  to 
prevent  further  distribution of the shares.  As a result of Ahn’s involvement in the unregistered 
transactions with Lidingo, Ahn participated in the sale of securities to Lidingo.  Galena and Ahn 
misstated  in  Galena’s  applicable  periodic  reports  that  the  company  had  not  issued unregistered 

                                               
1
        The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers and are not binding on any other person or 
entity in this or any other proceeding.   
 
2
        The  information about Galena in the articles and postings is not, itself, alleged to have been false or misleading. 
 
3
        Ahn also caused violations by Galena of the periodic reporting and books-and-records provisions.   

                                                        
                                                      2 
                                                                                                               
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
securities.  In the third quarter of 2013, Galena also did not record the expense of the stock options 
granted to Lidingo.   
 
                                     RESPONDENTS 
 
       1.     Galena Biopharma, Inc., is a biopharmaceutical  company incorporated  in 
Delaware.  During the relevant time period,  Galena was headquartered in Oregon; it is now 
headquartered in California.   Galena’s common stock is registered with the Commission 
pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12(b) and trades on the NASDAQ Capital Market.   
        
       2.     Mark J. Ahn, 54, resides in Lake Oswego, Oregon.  Ahn served as Chief 
Executive Officer and a director of Galena from 2007 to 2014.  
        
                  OTHER RELEVANT INDIVIDUALS AND ENTITIES 
 
       3.     Lidingo Holdings, LLC,  a Nevada limited liability  company formed in 2011 and 
dissolved in 2014, provided  services to numerous issuers, including  Galena, that included  the 
generation of more than 400 articles on investment websites that described its clients’ securities.  
Lidingo  was owned and operated by Kamilla Bjorlin  (“Bjorlin”).  The Commission  has charged 
Lidingo  and Bjorlin  for their roles in the misconduct described in this Order and for other 
misconduct unrelated to Galena. 
        
       4.     Michael A. McCarthy, 47, resides in San Antonio,  Texas.  McCarthy founded The 
DreamTeam Group, LLC, a Florida limited  liability  company headquartered in Indianapolis, 
Indiana, in 2004.  The DreamTeam Group, LLC and other entities owned and controlled by 
McCarthy, including  Mission Investor Relations, LLC, a Delaware limited  liability  company 
headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, provided  services to numerous issuers, including  Galena, that 
included  the generation  of more than 30 articles and 20 blog posts on investment websites that 
described their clients’ securities.  DreamTeam Group, LLC and Mission Investor Relations, LLC, 
which described themselves as being part of a “Family  of Businesses,” will  be referred to together 
in this Order as “DreamTeam.”  The Commission has charged McCarthy and DreamTeam for their 
roles in the misconduct described in this Order and for other misconduct unrelated to Galena. 
        
                                            FACTS 
        
Galena Paid Firms to Generate Articles and other Communications Describing its 
Securities that Falsely Purported to be Independent from Galena 
        
       5.     In January 2012, Ahn signed a contract with Lidingo  pursuant to which Lidingo 
would, among other things, “help generate independent research coverage for [Galena] through 
third parties.”  From January 2012 through April 2013, Galena paid Lidingo  $20,000  per month for 
these services.  Ahn signed a second contract with Lidingo,  effective August 1, 2013, that provided 

                                                 
                                               3 
                                                                                                 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
that Galena would not only pay Lidingo  $20,000 per month, which Galena did through February 
2014, but would also grant Lidingo  certain stock options.  The second contract with Lidingo  was 
signed around the time that Galena began preparing for an offering that Galena announced on 
September 12, 2013 (the “September 2013 Offering”).  In total, in addition to the stock options, 
Galena paid Lidingo  at least $460,000  in monthly  fees and a $20,000  bonus.  
        
       6.      On July 23, 2013, a week before signing  the second contract with Lidingo,  Ahn 
signed a contract with DreamTeam for 90 days of social media, marketing and branding services 
that stated, “[r]etail trading will  be the target ….”  Ahn signed a second contract with DreamTeam 
on December 2, 2013 for an additional 150 days of coverage.  In total, Galena paid DreamTeam 
$50,000 for its services. 
 
       7.      Lidingo  paid writers to publish,  give publicity  to, or circulate articles describing 
Galena securities via investment websites, and to ghostwrite such articles that Lidingo  itself 
published,  gave publicity  to, or circulated via investment websites using pseudonyms.  Overall, 
Lidingo  and writers it paid generated more than 90 articles describing Galena securities.  None of 
those articles disclosed the direct or indirect compensation from Galena, and more than 40 
contained affirmative misrepresentations that such compensation was not received.  For example, 
after Galena wired a $60,000  payment to Lidingo  in November 2013 for three months of services, 
                                                                                              4
Lidingo  paid a writer for an article describing Galena securities on Seeking Alpha’s website.   The 
article failed to disclose the writer’s indirect compensation from Galena and contained the 
following  misrepresentation:  “I am not receiving compensation for [this article] (other than from 
Seeking Alpha).” 
        
       8.      Lidingo  also generated messages describing Galena securities on stock message 
boards without disclosing  that Galena had directly or indirectly  funded the posts.  For example, on 
September 12, 2013, the day Galena announced its September 2013 Offering, Ahn emailed 
Lidingo  with “[k]ey messages re: today’s financing,”  which included  a comparison of Galena to 
Insys Therapeutics, Inc., and stated: “Please own the boards!”  Lidingo  forwarded the email to one 
of its paid writers with the message, “Pls post on boards . . . .” 
        
       9.      DreamTeam paid writers for four articles describing Galena securities that appeared 
on investment websites.  None of those articles disclosed that the writers indirectly  received 
compensation from Galena, and three contained affirmative misrepresentations that the writer did 
not receive such compensation.  For example, after Galena made its first payment ($25,000)  to 
DreamTeam in July 2013, DreamTeam paid a writer for an article describing Galena securities that 

                                               
4
       Seeking Alpha maintains a website (www.seekingalpha.com) that describes itself as “a platform for 
investment research . . . .”  The article, entitled “Will Galena's Post-Holiday Charm Continue?,” appeared on 
Seeking Alpha’s website on December 19, 2013. 
 

                                                   
                                                  4 
                                                                                                      
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 
                                      5
appeared on Seeking Alpha’s website.      The article  did not disclose that the writer  had been or 
would be indirectly  compensated by Galena, and contained the following  misrepresentation:  “I am 
not receiving compensation for [this article] (other than from Seeking Alpha).”  The next day, 
DreamTeam featured the article in a post on its blog on Seeking Alpha’s website entitled, “Seeking 
Alpha Publishes Article Featuring Galena Biopharma, Inc. (GALE).”  The blog post, which 
described and provided a hyperlink  to the article, disclosed Galena’s compensation of DreamTeam, 
but did not disclose that DreamTeam had generated the article by agreeing to pay the writer as part 
of its work for Galena. 
        
       10.    Ahn signed the agreements with Lidingo  and DreamTeam.  He provided  the firms 
with ideas for certain articles and message board posts, reviewed certain articles before 
publication,  and on occasion suggested the website on which an article should  appear.  
        
       11.    Over the course of the engagements, Ahn exchanged a number of emails with 
Lidingo  and DreamTeam regarding the price of Galena shares and their desire to move the price 
higher.  For example, on July 29, 2013, at about the time that Galena began preparing for the 
September 2013 Offering, Ahn proposed contract terms with Lidingo  that included  the following:   
“$20K/mo for three months.  If the price is >$3.00 in 90 days [Galena’s stock closed at $1.78/share 
on the day Ahn sent the email], then another 9 months.”  And on July 31, 2013, DreamTeam’s 
McCarthy sent Ahn a message with the subject “Great day!” that listed the increasing closing 
prices of Galena’s shares since DreamTeam started work five days earlier, and stated, “$2.00 here 
we come!”  Ahn replied, “Great start!” 
        
       12.    Ahn understood during  the relevant period that a writer who receives direct or 
indirect  compensation  from an issuer to write about the issuer’s securities must disclose that 
compensation.   He also knew or was reckless in not knowing that the articles and postings 
generated by Lidingo,  and the articles generated by DreamTeam, did not disclose the direct or 
indirect compensation from Galena or misrepresented that such compensation was not being 
received. 
        
       13.    Numerous communications  between Ahn and Lidingo  discussed payments to 
Lidingo  writers.  For example, in an April  4, 2012 email to Ahn, Bjorlin  wrote, “I would like to 
revisit bonus for the writers, as they have done a lot of hard work and have taken the brunt of the 
criticism.”   Ahn responded, “Don’t worry, I never forget . . . . submit  another invoice for $20K.”  
Galena paid Lidingo  the $20,000  bonus on April 9, 2012.  
 
       14.    The failures of the writers/publishers  of the articles and message board posts to 
disclose the compensation  they received directly  or indirectly  from Galena, and their affirmative 
misrepresentations  denying  the receipt of that compensation,  were material. 

                                               
5
       The article, entitled “Galena Biopharma Presents an Attractive Investment Opportunity,” appeared on 
Seeking Alpha’s website on August 6, 2013. 

                                                   
                                                  5 
                                                                                                      
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 
 
        15.     The articles that appeared on Seeking Alpha’s website described Galena securities, 
and certain of them operated as offers to buy the company’s securities.  Seeking Alpha operates a 
widely-read website that holds itself out as a “platform for investment research, with broad 
coverage of stocks, asset classes, ETFs and investment strategy,” where “articles frequently move 
stocks, due to a large and influential  readership which includes money managers, business leaders, 
journalists  and bloggers.”   
         
        16.     On January 27, 2014, while  the price of Galena shares was inflated  by the 
promotion  scheme, Ahn sold 796,765  shares of Galena stock.  
         
Galena Indirectly Transmitted Unlawful  Prospectuses 
         
        17.     By early August, 2013, Galena had reached an understanding with a broker/dealer 
that the broker/dealer would serve as the managing underwriter for an upcoming  public offering by 
Galena.  The restrictions on offering communications  imposed by the “gun jumping”  prohibitions 
of the federal securities laws commenced no later than when Galena and the broker/dealer reached 
                    6
this understanding.     
         
        18.     Between that time and the closing of the September 2013 Offering, Galena directly 
or indirectly  compensated Lidingo,  DreamTeam, and/or their writers to transmit articles and blog 
                                                                                         7
posts about the company using means of communication  in interstate commerce.               The se 

                                               
6
        The September 2013 Offering was made pursuant to a delayed shelf registration on Form S-3 that Galena 
filed on May 24, 2013, and a prospectus supplement thereunder.  Galena was not “in registration” with respect to the 
offering, and the offering-communications restrictions of Securities Act Section 5(b)(1) did not apply, until Galena 
began the process of offering the securities off the shelf.  See, e.g., Use of Electronic Media, Securities Act Release 
No. 7856, 65 Fed. Reg. 25843, 25845 n.10 (May 4, 2000) (“ ‘In registration’ is a term that refers to the entire 
registration process under the Securities Act, ‘at least from the time an issuer reaches an understanding with the 
broker-dealer which is to act as managing underwriter [before] the filing of a registration statement’ until the end of 
the period during which dealers must deliver a prospectus. See Securities Act Release No. 5180, at n. 1 (Aug. 16, 
1971) [36 FR 16506]. An issuer will not be considered to be ‘in registration’ at any particular point in time solely 
because it . . . has on file a registration statement for a delayed shelf offering on Form S-3 . . . and has not 
commenced or is not in the process of offering or selling securities ‘off of the shelf.’ ”) 
 
7
        See, e.g., “Galena Biopharma Presents an Attractive Investment Opportunity” (Seeking Alpha, 8/6/13) 
(generated by DreamTeam); “Galena Biopharma: Best and Worst Case Scenario” (Seeking Alpha, 8/14/13) (generated 
by Lidingo); “Seeking the Best Opportunities in Biotech by Value” (Seeking Alpha, 8/20/13) (generated by Lidingo); 
“Galena Biopharma: Ready for a Jump?” (Seeking Alpha, 8/22/13) (generated by Lidingo); “Galena Biopharma, Inc. 
(GALE) Backed With High Expectations For Upcoming Abstral Launch” (MissionIR’s Instablog on Seeking Alpha’s 
website,  9/10/13) (generated by DreamTeam); and “2 Small Cap Biotechnology Stocks with Big Promise” (Wall 
Street Cheat Sheet, 9/11/13) (generated by Lidingo). 
 

                                                       
                                                      6 
                                                                                                              
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 
communications  constituted prospectuses because they were written offers to sell Galena securities 
                                                                                                         8
in a public  offering, but they did not comply with the requirements of Securities Act Section 10.         
         
Galena and Ahn Offered and Sold Unregistered Securities to Lidingo and Galena Did Not 
Disclose and Properly Account for the Sales 
         
        19.     The 2013 contract between Galena and Lidingo  included  as part of Lidingo’s 
compensation  options  to purchase 250,000  shares of Galena stock.  Ahn signed the contract on 
behalf of Galena.  From November 2013 through  March 2014, Galena issued stock to Lidingo  on 
five occasions after Lidingo  paid Galena to exercise vested stock options.   Prior to exercising its 
vested options,  Lidingo  conveyed to Ahn that its costs had exceeded the cash amount Galena had 
paid “and that the equity stake is where we [Lidingo]  generate our income.”  Notwithstanding  the 
receipt of this information,  neither Galena nor Ahn exercised reasonable care to prevent Lidingo 
from reselling  the shares it received in the public  market soon after receiving them – such as by 
placing  a restrictive legend on the shares or putting  in place a stop-transfer order – and Lidingo 
did in fact resell its shares on each occasion within  a week of receiving  them.  These issuances 
constituted  sales of securities that resulted in public  distributions  that were neither registered 
                                                         9
with the Commission  nor exempt from registration.            
         
        20.      After selling  unregistered securities to Lidingo,  Galena did not disclose the sales 
            10
as required.    Galena’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2013, which Ahn signed, 
incorrectly stated, “[t]here were no stock options granted during the three months ended September 
30, 2013,” and its Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, which Ahn also signed, 
stated that there had been no sales of unregistered securities during  the period covered by the 
annual report that were not previously  reported (which the sales to Lidingo  were not).  Galena’s 
Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2014, and its 2014 Form 10-K, did not disclose Galena’s sale of 
stock in connection with Lidingo’s  exercise of stock options in 2014, which constituted 
unregistered, non-exempt sales of securities, and the Form 10-K for 2014 stated that there had been 
no sales of unregistered securities during the period covered by the annual report that were not 

                                               
8
        See 15 U.S.C §§ 77b(3), 77b(10), 77j. 
 
9
        Galena purportedly issued the stock  option  s  under its 2007 Incentive Plan.  Galena registered with the 
Commission, via Form S -8 filings, the sale of common stock issuable upon exercise of the stock  options under that 
plan, but sales of stock to a consultant may be registered via a Form S-8 only if the stock is issued to a natural person.  
See Form S-8, Instruction A.1.(a)(1)(i).  Also, grants of options to a consultant may be registered via a Form S-8 only if 
“the services [provided by the consultant] . . . do not directly or indirectly promote . . . the registrant’s securities.”   
Form S-8, Instruction A.1.(a)(1)(iii).  Because Lidingo was not a natural person, and because its services promoted 
Galena securities, the sale of stock to Lidingo was not registered with the Commission on a Form S-8.   
 
10
        Item 2 of Part II of Form 10-Q, and Item 5 of Part II of Form 10-K, require disclosure pursuant to Item 701 
of Regulation S-K of information regarding “all securities of the registrant sold by the registrant within the past 
three years which were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933.”  Regulation S-K, Item 701. 
 

                                                       
                                                      7 
                                                                                                              
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 
previously  reported (which the sales to Lidingo  were not).  
        
       21.    One-hundred-thousand  stock options  Galena sold to Lidingo  in the third quarter 
of 2013 vested immediately.   Galena did not record an expense in that quarter related to the 
vesting of those stock options.   
        
                              GALENA’S REMEDIAL EFFORTS 
                                                        
       22.    In determining  to accept Galena’s Offer, the Commission  considered remedial 
acts promptly  undertaken by Galena and cooperation afforded the Commission  staff. 
 
                                          VIOLATIONS 
        
       23.    As a result of the conduct described above, Galena and Ahn violated  Securities 
Act Section 17(a)(1) and (3) and Exchange Act Section 10(b) and Rule 10b-5(a) and (c) 
thereunder, which prohibit  fraudulent  conduct in the offer or sale of securities and in connection 
with the purchase or sale of securities, and Ahn caused Galena’s violations  of those provisions.   
Galena and Ahn also caused violations  of those provisions,  and of Securities Act Section 
17(a)(2) and Exchange Act Rule 10b-5(b),  by Lidingo  and certain writers paid by Lidingo  and 
                                                                                11
DreamTeam, and of Securities Act Section 17(a)(2) and (3) by DreamTeam.              
        
       24.     As a result of the conduct described above, Galena and Ahn caused Lidingo’s, 
DreamTeam’s, and certain writers’ violations  of Securities Act Section 17(b), which prohibits 
any person from publishing,  giving  publicity  to, or circulating  any communication  that describes 
a security in exchange for direct or indirect consideration  from an issuer, underwriter,  or dealer 
without  fully  disclosing  the past or prospective consideration  and the amount. 
        
       25.    As a result of the conduct described above, Galena and Ahn violated  Securities 
Act Section 5(b)(1), which prohibits  any person from directly or indirectly  using interstate means 
to carry or transmit a prospectus relating  to any security with respect to which a registration 
statement has been filed unless such prospectus complies with Securities Act Section 10.  The 
articles and blog  post that Galena and Ahn indirectly  transmitted  via Lidingo  and DreamTeam 
while preparing for and during  the September 2013 Offering were prospectuses that did not meet 
the requirements of Securities Act Section 10.  
        

                                               
11
       Securities Act Section 17(a)(2) and (3) make it unlawful for any person, in the offer or sale of securities, by 
the use of communication in interstate commerce, “to obtain money or property by means of any untrue statement of 
a material fact or any omission to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in light of the 
circumstances under which they were made, not misleading,” and “to engage in any transaction, practice, or course 
of business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon the purchaser.” 

                                                    
                                                  8 
                                                                                                       
---------------------Page 9---------------------

 
       26.    As a result of the conduct described above, Galena and Ahn violated  Sections 5(a) 
and 5(c) of the Securities Act, which prohibit  the offer and sale of unregistered securities absent 
an applicable  exemption  from registration. 
        
       27.     As a result of the conduct described above, Galena violated  Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13 and 12b-20 thereunder, which require every issuer of a 
security registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act to file annual and quarterly 
reports that disclose certain information,  including  information  regarding “all securities of the 
registrant sold by the registrant within  the past three years which were not registered under the 
                12
Securities Act,”  and to include such further information  as may be necessary to make the 
required statements, in the light  of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading. 
Ahn caused Galena’s violation  of Section 13(a) and Rules 13a-13 and 12b-20 thereunder in 
connection  with the disclosure  failures in Galena’s 10-Q for the third quarter of FY2013. 
        
       28.    As a result of the conduct described above, Galena violated  Exchange Act Section 
13(b)(2)(A), which requires every issuer of a security registered pursuant to Exchange Act 
Section 12 to make and keep books, records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail,  accurately 
and fairly  reflect the transactions and dispositions  of the assets of the issuer.  Ahn caused 
Galena’s violation  of Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(A). 
 
                               UNDERTAKINGS BY GALENA 
 
Respondent Galena has undertaken to: 
 
       In connection with this action and any related judicial  or administrative  proceeding or 
investigation  commenced by the Commission  or to which the Commission  is a party, (i) agree to 
appear and be interviewed by Commission  staff at such times and places as the staff requests upon 
reasonable notice; (ii) accept service by mail,  email, or facsimile transmission of notices or 
subpoenas issued by the Commission  for documents or testimony at depositions,  hearings, or trials, 
or in connection with any related investigation  by Commission  staff; (iii)  appoint Respondent 
Galena’s counsel in these proceedings as agent to receive service of such notices and subpoenas; 
(iv) with respect to such notices and subpoenas, waive the territorial limits  on service contained in 
Rule 45 of the Federal Rules of Civil  Procedure and any applicable local rules, provided that the 
party requesting the testimony reimburses Galena’s travel, lodging,  and subsistence expenses at the 
then-prevailing  U.S. Government per diem rates; and (v) consent to personal jurisdiction  over 
Galena in any United States District Court for purposes of enforcing any such subpoena.    
        
       In determining  whether to accept the Offer, the Commission  has considered the 
undertaking set forth above. 

                                               
12
       Regulation S-K, Item 701. 

                                                   
                                                 9 
                                                                                                     
---------------------Page 10---------------------

 
                                  UNDERTAKINGS BY AHN 
                                                   
Respondent Ahn has undertaken to: 
 
       A.     For a period of five years from the date of this Order, refrain from (1) hiring  or 
causing to be hired for pay any third party to engage in a promotional  campaign, on behalf of any 
issuer that has a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act or that is 
required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, that involves  publishing, 
giving  publicity  to, or circulating any form of written communication,  whether electronic or hard 
copy, which, though not purporting  to offer a security for sale, describes such security or 
(2) directly or indirectly  participating  in any such paid promotional  campaign; provided, however, 
that nothing herein prohibits Ahn from drafting or editing press releases or public filings  of issuers 
with which he is associated, or otherwise commenting upon such press releases or public filings 
before they are finalized. 
        
       B.     Certify, in writing,  compliance with the undertaking set forth above.  The 
certification shall identify the undertaking, provide written evidence of compliance in the form of a 
narrative, and be supported, as appropriate, by exhibits sufficient to demonstrate compliance.  The 
Commission  staff may make reasonable requests for further evidence of compliance, and 
Respondent Ahn agrees to provide such evidence.  The certification  and supporting material shall 
be submitted to Rami Sibay, Assistant Director, with a copy to the Office of Chief Counsel of the 
Enforcement Division,  no later than sixty (60) days from the date of the completion  of the 
undertakings.   
 
       C.     In connection with this action and any related judicial  or administrative  proceeding 
or investigation  commenced by the Commission  or to which the Commission  is a party, agree to 
(i) appear and be interviewed by Commission  staff at such times and places as the staff requests 
upon reasonable notice; (ii) accept service by mail,  email or facsimile transmission of notices or 
subpoenas issued by the Commission  for documents or testimony at depositions,  hearings, or trials, 
or in connection with any related investigation  by Commission  staff; (iii)  appoint Respondent 
Ahn’s counsel in these proceedings as agent to receive service of such notices and subpoenas; 
(iv) with respect to such notices and subpoenas, waive the territorial limits  on service contained in 
Rule 45 of the Federal Rules of Civil  Procedure and any applicable local rules, provided that the 
party requesting the testimony reimburses Respondent Ahn’s travel, lodging,  and subsistence 
expenses at the then-prevailing U.S. Government per diem rates; and (v) consent to personal 
jurisdiction  over him in any United States District Court for purposes of enforcing any such 
subpoena. 
 
       In determining  whether to accept Ahn’s Offer, the Commission  has considered the 
undertakings enumerated in Paragraph C.   
        

                                                   
                                                 10 
                                                                                                      
---------------------Page 11---------------------

 
                                                IV. 
                                                  
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission  deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
 
        Accordingly,  it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.      Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and 21C of the Exchange Act, 
Respondents Galena and Ahn cease and desist from committing  or causing any violations  and any 
future violations  of Sections 5(a), 5(b), 5(c), 17(a) and 17(b) of the Securities Act and Sections 
10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20 and 13a-13 thereunder, and 
Respondent Galena cease and desist from committing  or causing any violations  and any future 
violations  of Exchange Act Rule 13a-1. 
 
       B.      Respondent Ahn be, and hereby is, prohibited for five years from the date of this 
Order from acting as an officer or director of any issuer that has a class of securities registered 
pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act or that is required to file reports pursuant to Section 
15(d) of the Exchange Act. 
 
       C.      Within  14 days of the entry of this Order, Respondent Ahn shall pay disgorgement 
of $677,250,  prejudgment interest of $67,181,  and a civil  monetary penalty in the amount of 
$600,000,  and Respondent Galena shall pay a civil  money penalty in the amount of $200,000,  to the 
Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, 
subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  If timely payment of disgorgement and prejudgment 
interest is not made, additional  interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600, and if 
timely payment of civil  money penalty is not made, interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 
§3717. 
 
Payment must be made in one of the following  ways:   
 
               (1)     Respondents may transmit payment electronically  to the Commission, 
                       which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon 
                       request;  
                
               (2)     Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                       through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
                
               (3)     Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                       States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                       Commission  and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 

                                                  
                                                11 
                                                                                                    
---------------------Page 12---------------------

 
               Enterprise Services Center 
               Accounts Receivable Branch 
               HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
               6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
               Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying  the payor as 
a respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover 
letter and check or money order must be sent to Melissa Hodgman, Associate Director, Division  of 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission,  100 F St., NE, Washington,  DC 20549. 
 
       D.      Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be 
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including  all tax purposes.  To 
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil  penalty, Respondents agree that in any Related Investor 
Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of 
any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondents’ payment of a civil 
penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”).  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a 
Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that they shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order 
granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's  counsel in this action and pay the amount of 
the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   Such a payment shall not be 
deemed an additional  civil  penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil 
penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” 
means a private damages action brought against Respondent(s) by or on behalf of one or more 
investors based on substantially  the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted  by the 
Commission  in this proceeding. 
 
       E.      Ahn shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in Paragraphs A and B of his 
undertakings set forth above. 
 
 
 
                               

                                                  
                                                12 
                                                                                                    
---------------------Page 13---------------------

 
 
                                                 V. 

       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in 
Section 523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and 
admitted by Respondent Ahn, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment  interest, civil 
penalty or other amounts due by Respondent Ahn under this Order or any other judgment,  order, 
consent order, decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt 
for the violation  by Respondent Ahn of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued 
under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 

 
                    
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                      Brent J. Fields 
                                                      Secretary 

                                                   
                                                 13 
                                                                                                      
