---------------------Page 1---------------------

       
                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                        Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 10081 / May 24, 2016 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 77887 / May 24, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3775 / May 24, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17257 
                                             ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE -AND-
 
                                             DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
In the Matter of 
                                             SECTION  8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT 
 
                                             OF 1933 AND SECTION  21C OF THE 
           SWISHER HYGIENE INC.  ,    
                                             SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, 
 
                                             MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A 
Respondent.  
                                             CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER    
 
 
 
                                            I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission") deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act 
of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and  Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 
Act”), against Swisher Hygiene Inc. (“Swisher” or “Respondent”). 
 
                                            II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer of 
Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of 
these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the 
subject matter of these proceedings, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-
Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order   
(“Order”), as set forth below.  

                                              
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

  
 

                                                          III. 

 
                                                                                                     1
         On the basis of this Order and the Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that: 

 

                                                    SUMMARY 

          

         1.       Swisher reported materially misstated financial results to the investing public and 

in filings with the Commission during the first three quarters of 2011.  The filings with the 

Commission included Registration Statements, Forms 8-K and quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q. 

          

         2.       The improper accounting involved, among other things, the accounting for 

business combinations in a manner that was not in conformity with Generally Accepted 

Accounting Principles (“GAAP”), as well as the improper use of reserve accounts to reduce 

losses.  

          

         3.        In addition, beginning in the second quarter of 2011 and continuing through the 

remainder of that year, Swisher engaged in a scheme to manage reported financial results to 
                                                   2
predetermined Adjusted EBITDA targets.                 The scheme, orchestrated by        one or more     senior 

officer  s  of Swisher,  occurred   during the financial statement clos        ing  process for each of the 

relevant periods and involved the manipulation and recording of accounting entries that were not 

in  conformity   with GAAP in order to achieve a predetermined               target.  Once the desired target 

was achieved, the     financial statemen     t clos ing  process would cease with no further analysis of 

other significant accounts.  Accounting entries that were utilized in furtherance of the scheme 

included those related to earnout        accruals  , compensation for employees of acquired entities, 

unfavorable contracts, insurance reserves and the allowance for doubtful accounts                     receivable  . 

          

         4 .      As a result of the improper       accounting, on     February 19, 20 and 21, 2013,         

respectively, Swisher fil    ed amended      and restated    quarterly reports on Form      s  10 -Q/A for the 

quarterly periods ended March 31, 2011, June 30, 2011 and September 30, 2011.                         

          

                                                   
1
        The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any 

other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
 
2
         EBITDA    is a non  - GAAP measure that generally denotes earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and 
amortization.  In its September 30, 2011 Form 10  -Q, Swisher defined “Adjusted EBITDA” as follows: 
 
         We define Adjusted EBITDA as net loss excluding the impact of income taxes, depreciation and 
         amortization expense, interest expense and income, foreign currency gain, net gain/loss on debt related fair 
         value measurements, stock based compensation and third party costs directly related to mergers and 
         acquisitions. 
           

                                                           2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

  
 

       5.     Swisher also acknowledged in its Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 
31, 2011, filed on February 26, 2013, and in its amended Forms 10-Q for 2011 that as of those 
reporting periods, Swisher’s internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and 
procedures were not effective as a result of material weaknesses in the company’s internal 
control over financial reporting. 
                                                 
                                     RESPONDENT 
 
       6.     Swisher Hygiene, Inc. is a Delaware corporation headquartered in Charlotte, 
North Carolina. Swisher’s stock is registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and 
commenced trading on the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC on February 2, 2011.  Swisher’s 
common stock was also previously listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange until Swisher 
voluntarily delisted the stock on April 30, 2014. Swisher became a public company in November 
2010.  
        
                                                              FACTS 
        
       A.     Overview 
        
       7.       Swisher acquired 63 franchises and independent businesses during 2011.  
Swisher financed some of these acquisitions and its operations, in part, with a bank line of credit 
entered into on March 30, 2011.  Swisher’s loan covenants under its line of credit required it to 
periodically reach certain consolidated EBITDA targets.  Swisher reported Adjusted EBITDA, 
which is a Non-GAAP financial measure, in its public filings with the Commission and to its 
Board of Directors.  According to Swisher’s public filings, Adjusted EBITDA is an important 
supplemental measure of the company’s operating performance and is frequently used by 
securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in evaluating the company’s results. 
        
       8.     Beginning in the first quarter of 2011 and continuing throughout the remainder of 
that year, Swisher did not comply with GAAP with regard to numerous accounting 
determinations, including those related to (i) the treatment of prepayment penalties incurred in 
connection with the extinguishment of debt in connection with an acquisition, (ii) earnout 
accruals, (iii) compensation for employees of acquired entities, (iv) unfavorable contracts, (v) 
insurance reserves and (vi) the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable. 
 
       B.     Swisher Failed to Account Properly for a Debt Prepayment Penalty in the  
              First Quarter of 2011 
 
       9.     In March 2011, Swisher paid off a $39.2 million debt of one of the companies that 
it acquired.  In paying off the debt, Swisher incurred a prepayment penalty of $1.5 million. 
 
       10.    Swisher accounted for the prepayment penalty as part of the purchase price, 
resulting in an increase in recorded goodwill prior to the filing of the Form 10-Q for the first 
                                                3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

  
 

quarter of 2011.  In support of this accounting determination, a senior Swisher officer told the 
company’s outside auditor that the debt could not be assumed and had to be paid off 
contractually.  That information was not accurate.  In fact, the debt was legally assumable by 
Swisher and thus the prepayment penalty should have been expensed by Swisher and not 
included as a part of the purchase price, and therefore goodwill.  Swisher should have instead 
expensed the prepayment penalty on its income statement rather than recording it as an asset on 
its balance sheet.  (Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 805-10-55-18). 
 
       11.    Swisher’s improper accounting for the prepayment penalty resulted in a $1.5 
million increase in income in the company’s original Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2011. 
 
       12.    Swisher’s restated financial statements reflect that this entry was reversed in its 
entirety. 
 
       C.     Swisher Engaged in an Earnings Management Scheme during the Second,  
              Third and Fourth Quarters of 2011 
 
       13.    During the financial statement closing process for the second, third and fourth 
quarters of 2011, a Swisher senior officer exerted pressure on the accounting staff to record 
improper accounting entries to achieve pre-determined Adjusted EBITDA targets.  
 
       14.    Swisher’s earnings management scheme involved (i) the determination and 
communication of an Adjusted EBITDA target by a Swisher senior officer; (ii) the recording of 
inappropriate accounting entries to achieve the target; and (iii) the immediate cessation of the 
closing process once the target was achieved.  After achieving the Adjusted EBITDA target, the 
Swisher senior officer would advise the team that additional entries would not be recorded. 
 
       15.    During the closing process for the last three quarters of 2011, after the initial 
financial statement closing for the quarter revealed that the Adjusted EBITDA was less than the 
targeted number, a Swisher senior officer communicated with the corporate accounting team 
regarding suggested areas and amounts for adjustments.  Corporate level accounting personnel 
were asked to get “into the weeds” and contribute ideas as to how to improve earnings results.  A 
list of potential adjustments was compiled and the positive entries or “good guys” were recorded.  
Accounting personnel were encouraged to find offsets for negative entries or “bad guys.” 
        
        16.    Senior officers contacted divisional CFOs and instructed them how much 
Adjusted EBITDA was required by their division beyond their initially reported figures to the 
corporate accounting department.  In some instances, the divisional CFOs were given specific 
accounts to examine.   With respect to the second and third quarters, after several days of 
additional analysis, Swisher achieved its Adjusted EBITDA target.  At that point, the financial 
statement closing process concluded, and the finance team was advised of the result and the fact 
that additional entries would not be recorded. 
 
                                                4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

  
 

       17.    For the second quarter of 2011, Swisher needed $3 million of Adjusted EBITDA 
to meet its predetermined target.  After the initial closing process for the quarter, which 
concluded on July 23, 2011, the Adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter was $2.3 million.  A 
senior officer instructed relevant accounting staff to make adjustments to achieve the $3 million 
targeted amount, and by July 26, 2011, Swisher’s Adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter was 
$3 million.  Similarly, Swisher’s forecasted Adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter was $5.2 
million.  On October 14, 2011, following the initial closing process for the quarter, Swisher 
computed its Adjusted EBITDA at $4.1 million.  Swisher staff were again instructed to make 
accounting entries to increase the Adjusted EBITDA.   For example, a senior officer sent an 
email to a division officer stating “I need to talk to you about your Q3 numbers. I need you to go 
back and squeeze them for an additional $220k of EBITDA.”   By October 19, 2011, Swisher 
had achieved its target of $5.2 million of Adjusted EBITA for the third quarter.  To achieve the 
targeted Adjusted EBITDA for the second and third quarters of 2011, Swisher made accounting 
adjustments which did not comply with GAAP. 
 
                Purchase Accounting and Measurement Period Adjustments 
                                                 
       18.    In a business combination, the acquirer must generally recognize and measure 
identifiable assets and liabilities assumed at fair value in the financial statements.  (ASC 805-20-
30-1 through 30-2).  Fair Value is defined as “the price that would be received to sell an asset or 
paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date.” (ASC 805-10-20)  At the acquisition date (or closing date), the fair values 
are considered provisional and can be adjusted throughout the “measurement period,” which is 
up to one year after acquisition (ASC 805-10-25-13 through 19). 

       19.    During the measurement period, the acquirer is required to “retrospectively adjust 
the provisional amounts recognized at the acquisition date to reflect new information obtained 
about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have 
affected the measurement of the amounts recognized as of that date.”  (ASC 805-10-25-13).   
The change in the provisional asset or liability amounts, to reflect these new facts, should be 
increased or decreased, which generally results in a corresponding change to goodwill. If the 
facts and circumstances that come to light did not exist as of the acquisition date, the acquirer 
needs to account for changes in its post-combination financial statements in conformity with 
other applicable GAAP.  

       20.    As discussed in more detail below, Swisher used a variety of accounts, including 
many associated with purchase accounting and measurement period adjustments, to carry out the 
earnings management scheme.  Some of the specific accounts included, for example, those 
related to earnouts, certain contracts acquired in acquisitions, insurance reserves, and the 
allowance for doubtful accounts receivable.  Those accounts constitute some, but not all, of the 
accounts utilized in furtherance of the scheme.  The improper accounting entries that Swisher 
recorded in furtherance of the earnings management scheme did not comply with GAAP, and the 
improper entries recorded in the second and third quarters of 2011 were ultimately reversed and 

                                               5 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

  
 

restated.  The improper accounting entries recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011, although 
reversed, did not require restatement because they were discovered prior to year-end and were 
not reflected in any financial statements that were filed with the Commission. 
 
                                            Earnouts 
 
       21.     Swisher made adjustments to its accounting for earnouts in order to achieve 
targeted results in the third and fourth quarters of 2011.  An earnout is a contractual obligation 
whereby the purchaser of a business agrees to pay the seller additional future consideration based 
on the acquired business achieving certain future financial goals.  The appropriate accounting 
treatment for an earnout, also referred to as “contingent consideration,” is to reflect it at fair 
value on the balance sheet at the time of acquisition.  An earnout is recognized at fair value as of 
the acquisition date.  Changes in the fair value of the earnout that are a result of additional 
information about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date, but are obtained 
after that date, are recorded as measurement period adjustments.  (ASC 805-10-25-13 through 
25-18 and ASC 805-30-35-1). 
        
       22.     In one instance, Swisher posted a $1 million earnout liability in January 2011, 
which could potentially require payments over three years if gross margin targets on specified 
contracts were realized.  The targets were not realistic, based on the historical performance of the 
specified contracts, suggesting that the earnout lacked substance and that the initial valuation was 
not recorded at fair value and was thus not in accordance with GAAP.   By the end of the third 
quarter of 2011, Swisher was well short of meeting its Adjusted EBITDA targets and determined 
that since the acquiree had not been achieving its gross margin targets for the past quarter, 
Swisher would adjust the earnout accrual downward by $500,000, thus increasing earnings for 
the quarter.  Such an adjustment was not in accordance with GAAP because there was no new 
information post acquisition justifying the adjustment.  A change in fair value resulting from 
information existing at the acquisition date should have resulted in a retrospective change to the 
provisional balance sheet amount recorded to goodwill and the earnout accrual.  Swisher, having 
no new information since the acquisition date, to achieve targeted Adjusted EBITDA, 
nevertheless reduced the earnout accrual by 50% of its original value.  Swisher continued to 
reduce this earnout accrual (and other similarly established earnout accruals) in the fourth quarter 
of 2011. 

       23.    Swisher’s restated financial statements reflect that the accruals were reversed in 
their entirety. 
 
                          Failure to Expense Employment Contracts 
 
       24.     In certain instances during 2011, Swisher acquired a company, kept its employees 
in the continuing entity and subsequently terminated them.  Swisher then tallied the terminated 
employees’ salary expense since acquisition, which expense was not contingent compensation as 

                                                6 
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

  
 

part of the business combination, reversed the expense, and improperly reclassified the expense 
to the opening balance of goodwill, thereby increasing earnings in the relevant quarter.  
 
       25.     For example, Swisher recorded approximately $600,000 in additional income by 
firing an employee of a company acquired by Swisher, after the employee had worked for 
Swisher post-acquisition, and improperly reversed the expense with a corresponding increase to 
goodwill.  During the second quarter closing process, on July 26, 2011, a Swisher senior officer 
sent an email to accounting personnel, stating:   
        
       “We currently are at $2.370 million of adjusted EBITDA.  I would like to get the 
       final entries booked and believe based on what I see right now we can close at 
       slightly above $3.0 million.”   
        
       26.     The email then listed a number of open items that would result in an 
Adjusted EBITDA number of $3,046,684, including the item described in paragraph 25. 
        
       27.     Although contingent payments to employees may be included as part of the 
business combination exchange, it requires a determination that the contingent consideration was 
part of the business combination, and existed at the date of acquisition, rather than a separate 
transaction. (ASC 805-10-55-24 to 25)   At the time of acquisition, Swisher did not have a 
severance agreement or other specific restructuring plans in place and did not communicate to 
the employee that there was a plan to sever employment.  Accordingly, because of the 
employee’s continued employment, the employee’s payroll or severance post-acquisition should 
have been recorded as an expense. 
 
       28.    Swisher’s restated financial statements reflect that this entry was reversed in its 
entirety. 
 
                                Purportedly Unfavorable Contract 
 
       29.    An “unfavorable contract” is one that has terms that are unfavorable relative to 
market terms.  (ASC 805-20-55-31)  Swisher treated one of the contracts that it acquired in an 
acquisition as unfavorable even though the contract had favorable terms based on comparison to 
market terms at the date of acquisition and, at the time of acquisition, had been recently entered 
into at arm’s length by the acquiree.  By improperly classifying the contract as unfavorable, 
Swisher was able to recognize an unfavorable contract liability that could be amortized over the 
life of the contract, resulting in a benefit to the profit and loss statement.  This purportedly 
“unfavorable contract” was one of several mechanisms used to achieve a pre-determined 
Adjusted EBITA target in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2011. 
 
       30.    Swisher’s restated financial statements reflect that the entry was reversed in its 
entirety. 
 
                                                7 
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

  
 

                                       Insurance Reserves 
        
       31.    Swisher also manipulated insurance reserves to reach Adjusted EBITDA targets. 
For example, the owner of one company acquired by Swisher was instructed by Swisher, prior to 
the acquisition, to record an additional $300,000 of reserve for worker’s compensation expense. 
There was no analysis performed and no documentation for the change was prepared to identify 
if this increase would be in conformity with GAAP. (ASC 450-20-25-2)  During the closing 
process for the third quarter, that reserve was arbitrarily reduced to meet Adjusted EBITDA 
targets. 
    
       32.    Specifically, during the financial statement closing process, a Swisher senior 
officer sent an email to a divisional CFO stating, under the subject line:  “URGENT-Call me 
asap” 
 
       Please call me as soon as possible.  I need to talk to you about your Q3 numbers.   
       I need you to go back and squeeze them for an additional $220K of EBITDA.  I suspect 
       that you should have room in some of your reserves.  You should have $300K of 
       Workers comp accruals we set up on the operating balance sheet that should still be there.  
        
       33.    The divisional CFO responded, with regard to the Workers Comp reserve, that 
“we just had the audit and haven’t got the results …so we didn’t want to touch it yet…but if we 
are at the “rainy day” then maybe we take it now.  Besides those 2 items…we scrubbed the hell 
out of our #s this month hoping to get closer to budget.  Overall I think I can take the $225 out of 
reserves…but I will leave me naked on reserves after this.”    
               
       34.    The Swisher senior officer responded:  “Do your best to get $200K.  We need to 
stretch a bit to get to the numbers in Q3.  I think we all will be a bit bare. At the end of the day if 
we get to the number I will let some come back your way.”  The $225,000 subtracted from the 
insurance reserves included $175,000 taken out of the worker’s compensation reserve to meet the 
Adjusted EBITDA target. The senior officer then sent an email to another member of the 
accounting staff indicating that Swisher would “refill the cookie jar” using items to be found in a 
monthly operating review. 
 
       35.    Swisher’s restated financial statements reflect that the insurance reserve accrual 
was reversed in its entirety. 
               
                        Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Receivable 
        
       36.    During 2011, Swisher improperly used the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts 
Receivable to increase earnings.  Throughout 2011, Swisher disclosed in its filings that “We 
estimate the allowance for doubtful accounts by considering a number of factors, including 
overall credit quality, age of outstanding balances, historical write-off experience and specific 

                                               8 
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

  
 

account analysis that projects the ultimate collectability of the outstanding balances.  Actual 
results could differ from these assumptions.” 
        
       37.    During the second quarter of 2011, a senior Swisher officer instructed accounting 
staff to change its methodology for calculating the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Receivable.  
This revised methodology was contrary to Swisher’s continuing disclosure in that it did not 
consider overall credit quality, age of outstanding balances and the historical write-off 
experience of its largest acquisition. (ASC 310-10-35-7 through 11).  Further, the revised 
methodology did not result in an allowance for doubtful accounts that was in compliance with 
GAAP. (ASC 310-10-35-4(c)). 
        
       38.    Based on this new methodology, in the second and third quarters of 2011, 
accounting staff were instructed to adjust the allowance for doubtful accounts by $580,000 
($250,000 first entry and $330,000 second entry) and $150,000, respectively, amounts which 
were designed to help Swisher reach specific Adjusted EBITDA targets.  These adjustments 
allowed Swisher to increase income by those amounts.   
        
       39.    During the second quarter closing process, a senior accounting officer sent the 
following email to accounting personnel:   
        
       “We currently are at $2.370 million of adjusted EBITDA.  I would like to get the final 
       entries booked and believe based on what I see right now we can close at slightly above 
       $3.0 million.”  The senior officer then listed a number of entries or “open items” that 
       would get them to an Adjusted EBITDA number of $3,046,684.”  One of the open items 
       is “Bad debt reserve adjustment” for $330,000 that accounting personnel “has entry 
       prepared.”    
        
       40.    Later in the second quarter close process, a senior accounting officer, in an email 
exchange with accounting personnel discussing another accounting issue, stated: 
        
       “Do we have anything left we can capitalize in installs or FSA?  It seems like we 
       didn’t pick up everything we could have.  I need about $250K in income to get to 
       3MM.”  
        
       “Let’s work up the number.  If we are short.  (sic)We will get it in bad debt.  
       Good work.  Can we get it today?”  
 
       41.    During the third quarter closing process, a senior accounting officer sent 
an email detailing the September adjusting entries which would take EBITDA from $2.5 
million to $3.445 million.  One of the entries is “Lower bad debt to calculated 
requirement.” 
 

                                                9 
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

  
 

       42.    Swisher’s restated financial statements reflect that these entries were reversed in 
their entirety. 

       D.     The Earnings Management Scheme Unraveled in the Fourth Quarter of 2011 

       43.    Swisher continued to manage earnings into the fourth quarter of 2011.  During 
that quarter, Swisher determined that there was an approximate $700,000 shortfall in the 
allowance for doubtful accounts receivable, which if accounted for in accordance with GAAP 
(ASC 310-10-35-8), would have required a large expense to correct.  After a senior member of 
the accounting staff refused the Swisher senior officer’s request to fix this “hole” in a manner 
that did not require a large negative adjustment to earnings, the senior officer instructed another 
Swisher employee (the “second employee”) to find a solution.  The second employee was not 
responsible for accounts receivable and generally did not handle purchase accounting.  Even 
though he felt under-qualified to do so, the second employee devised an analysis to address the 
shortfall through purchase accounting, thereby avoiding a large expense that would negatively 
affect Swisher’s profit and loss statement.  Specifically, the second employee’s analysis 
recalculated the acquisition balances of the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable for some 
acquisitions.  This analysis improperly applied Swisher’s purported bad debt historical 
percentage to the receivable balances of the acquired companies at acquisition.  The Swisher 
senior officer approved the reserve shortfall entry prepared by the second employee even though 
the entry was not in accordance with GAAP, and the senior officer directed that the entry be 
recorded in Swisher’s books and records. 
        
       44.    Swisher’s earnings management scheme unraveled in early 2012 when, as part of 
the year-end financial statement closing process, a Swisher senior officer fired a senior employee 
in the accounting department after the employee refused to record an accounting entry for which 
the employee thought there was no plausible justification other than to hit a target, and requested 
permission to raise the issue with Swisher’s outside auditor.   Specifically, in connection with 
one third party agreement with a company acquired by Swisher in May 2011, the third party 
earned monthly rebates of approximately $50,000 per month.   The senior officer instructed the 
employee to reverse $100,000 of rebates for 2011 and record the amounts as prepaid expenses to 
be amortized in 2012.  
        
       45.    The senior officer advised Swisher’s Audit Committee and outside auditor, 
falsely, that the accounting employee had been fired for poor performance. In fact, one week 
prior to the firing, the senior officer had prepared a performance rating for the employee, and the 
overall rating was “exceeds expectations.”  
        
       46.    Subsequent to the employee’s termination, the employee met with Swisher’s 
general counsel and outside auditor and raised certain accounting issues.  These issues were 
brought to the attention of the Audit Committee. 
        

                                               10 
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

  
 

       47.    Swisher’s Audit Committee then commenced an internal investigation in March 
2012.   On March 28, 2012, Swisher announced that the quarterly reports for 2011 should no 
longer be relied upon and might require restatement. 
        
       E.     The Restatement 
        
       48.    On February 19, 20 and 21, 2013, respectively, Swisher filed amended quarterly 
reports on Form10-Q/A for the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2011, June 30, 2011 and 
September 30, 2011.  As a result of Swisher’s earnings management, the company understated 
its net loss before income taxes in the first and second quarters of 2011 by 36% and 11.6%, 
respectively.  In the third quarter of 2011, Swisher overstated its net loss before income taxes by 
42% because it failed to originally recognize a gain from bargain purchase related to one of its 
acquisitions for over $4 million.  Excluding this one-time gain, which was not related to earnings 
management, Swisher’s originally reported net loss before income taxes was understated by 46% 
for the third quarter of 2011.  Swisher also acknowledged in its Form 10-K for the fiscal year 
ended December 31, 2011, filed on February 26, 2013, and in its restated Forms 10-Q for 2011 
that as of those reporting periods, Swisher’s internal control over financial reporting and 
disclosure controls and procedures were not effective, as a result of material weaknesses in the 
company’s internal control over financial reporting. Among other deficiencies Swisher identified 
were placing an undue emphasis on internal anticipated financial results in communications 
during the financial statement close process and allowing for overrides of entity-level controls 
during the financial reporting close process resulting in a number of journal entries having either 
insufficient or no support. 
        
                                     VIOLATIONS 
         
       49.    As a result of the conduct described above, during at least the second and third 
quarters of 2011, Swisher violated Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, which prohibits fraudulent 
conduct  in  the  offer  or  sale  of  securities,  and  Exchange  Act  Section  10(b)  and  Rule  10b-5 
thereunder,  which  prohibit  fraudulent  conduct  in  connection  with  the  purchase  or  sale  of 
securities. 
        
       50.    As a result of the conduct described above, during the first, second and third 
quarters of 2011, Swisher violated Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-11, 13a-13 
and 12b-20 thereunder, which require every issuer of a security registered pursuant to Section 12 
of the Exchange Act to file with the Commission information, documents, and quarterly reports 
as the Commission may require, and mandate that periodic reports contain such further material 
information as may be necessary to make the required statements not misleading.   
        
       51.    As a result of the conduct described above, during the first, second, third and 
fourth quarters of 2011, Swisher violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, which 
requires reporting companies  to make and keep books, records and accounts which, in 

                                               11 
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

  
 

reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect  Swisher’s transactions and dispositions of its 
assets. 
         
       52.    As a result of the conduct described above, during the first, second, third and 
fourth quarters of 2011, Swisher violated Sections 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, which 
requires all reporting companies to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls 
sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  
               
                                                 
                            SWISHER’S REMEDIAL EFFORTS 
                                                 
       In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts promptly 
undertaken by Respondent and cooperation afforded the Commission staff. 
 
                                      UNDERTAKINGS 
                                      
       53.    Swisher undertakes as follows:         
 
        Ongoing Cooperation by Swisher.  Swisher undertakes to cooperate fully with the 
Commission in any and all investigations, litigations or other proceedings relating to or arising 
from the matters described in this Order. In connection with such cooperation, Swisher has 
undertaken:  
        
       To produce, without service of a notice or subpoena, any and all documents and other 
information reasonably requested by the Commission’s staff and within the possession, custody 
or control of Swisher, with a custodian declaration as to their authenticity, if requested;  
        
       To use its best efforts to cause its employees and former employees to be interviewed by 
the Commission’s staff, at the option of the staff with representatives of other government 
agencies present, at such times and places as the staff reasonably may direct.  
        
       To use its best efforts to cause its employees to appear and testify truthfully and 
completely without service of a notice or subpoena in such investigations, depositions, hearings 
or trials as may be requested by the Commission’s staff; and  
        
       In connection with any interviews of Swisher employees to be conducted pursuant to this 
undertaking, requests for such interviews may be provided by the Commission’s staff to 
Swisher’s counsel. 
                                      
       In determining whether to accept the Offer, the Commission has considered these 
undertakings.   
                                                     
                                               12 
 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

  
 

                      DEFERREED PROSECUTION AGREEMENT 

       Respondent has entered into a Deferred Prosecution Agreement in connection with 
United States v. Swisher Hygiene Inc., Crim. No. 3:15cr237 (W.D.N.C.) (“Deferred Prosecution 
Agreement”), which agreement is incorporated by reference herein.  As part of the Deferred 
Prosecution Agreement, Respondent has paid a monetary penalty of $2,000,000 to the United 
States. 
 
                                              IV. 
                                                     
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.   Although a civil penalty is appropriate for the conduct at issue 
herein, in light of the monetary penalty already paid by Respondent as part of the Deferred 
Prosecution agreement, no penalty is being ordered. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and 
Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent Swisher cease and desist from committing or causing 
any violations and any future violations  of  Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, Sections 10(b), 
13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B)of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-11and 13a-13 
thereunder.    
 
       By the Commission.             
 
                       
 
 
                                            Brent J. Fields 
                                            Secretary 

                                               13 
 
