---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                         Before the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933  
Release No. 10091 / June 7, 2016 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 78009 / June 7, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3780 / June 7, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16729 
 
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
In the Matter of                                
                                                
       MILLER ENERGY                            
       RESOURCES, INC., PAUL W.                ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND 
       BOYD, CPA, DAVID M. HALL,               IMPOSING  REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
       AND CARLTON W. VOGT, III ,              PURSUANT TO SECTION S 4C AND 21C 
       CPA                                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
                                               OF 1934 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
Respondent s.                                  COMMISSION’S                                
                                                                                       
                                                
 
 
                                                   
 
                                              I. 
 
       On August 6, 2015, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) instituted 
                                  1
proceedings pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 

                                                 
1
       Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
              The Commission may    censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, 
              to any person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in 
              any way, if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications 
              to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to have 
                                                                                 continued . . .  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 

                                                                         2
Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice         against Carlton W. Vogt, III, 
CPA  (“Vogt” or “Respondent”). 
 
                                                   II. 
 
        Respondent has submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has 
determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings 
brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party and without 
admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission's jurisdiction over him and 
the subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of 
this Order Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions Pursuant to Section 4C of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice as to Carlton W. Vogt, III, 
CPA (the “Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                                   III. 
 
                                                                                      3
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that: 
 
                                             SUMMARY 
                                                      
        1.      This case involves financial accounting and reporting fraud, as well as audit 
failures, related to the valuation of certain oil and gas assets in Alaska (“the Alaska Assets”) 
acquired by Miller Energy Resources, Inc. (“Miller Energy” or “the Company”).  Miller Energy, 
an oil and gas company headquartered in Houston, Texas, purchased these assets for $2.25 million 
in cash – along with the assumption of certain liabilities it valued at approximately $2 million – 
during a competitive bid in a bankruptcy proceeding in December 2009.   
                                              
        2.      The Company subsequently reported those assets at an overstated value of $480 
million and recognized a one-time “bargain purchase” gain of $277 million for its fiscal third 
quarter ended January 2010 and fiscal year ended April 2010.   

                                                                                                                                                             
                engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully 
                violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the 
                securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
         
2
        Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that:  
 
                The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
                appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have 
                engaged in unethical or impr   oper professional conduct.    
         
3
        The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person in this or any other proceeding. 

                                                    2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 

        
       3.     Miller Energy’s financial statements for its fiscal year 2010, the first annual period 
in which the Company reported the fair value of the acquired assets, were audited by Sherb & Co. 
LLP (“Sherb & Co.”), a now defunct CPA firm that was suspended by the Commission in 2013 for 
improper professional conduct unrelated to this matter.  The lead engagement partner on the Miller 
Energy audit, Vogt, failed to comply with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the 
“PCAOB”) rules and standards in auditing Miller Energy’s financial statements that included its 
accounting for its Alaska acquisition.  Vogt failed to exercise due professional care and skepticism 
by not adequately assessing whether the Company’s accounting treatment for the acquisition 
complied with GAAP.  Vogt also failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter for 
management’s assertions regarding the fair value of the Alaska Assets.   

                                        RESPONDENT 

       4.     Carlton W. Vogt, III, CPA, resides in Warwick, New York.  From January 2005 to 
October 2012, Vogt was a partner at Sherb & Co., LLP, an accounting firm based out of New 
York.  He has been a licensed CPA in the state of New York since 1998. 

        
                                       THE COMPANY 
        
       5.     Miller Energy Resources, Inc. is a Tennessee corporation with its principal place 
of business in Houston, Texas.  It was founded in 1967 as an oil and gas exploration and 
production company, and went public via a reverse merger in 1996.  It changed its name from 
Miller Petroleum to Miller Energy Resources in April 2011.  The Company operated oil and gas 
assets in the Appalachian region of east Tennessee until selling them in November 2014 for $3.3 
million in cash.   Miller Energy’s securities, registered pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12(b), 
were listed on the NYSE until September 2015, when the securities were delisted.  Between early 
2002 and December 2009, Miller Energy’s stock price regularly traded below one dollar per share, 
falling to a low of $0.04 per share in December 2007.  On October 1, 2015, Miller Energy filed a 
voluntary petition for reorganization under chapter 11 of title 11 of the U.S. Code in the United 
States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Alaska (the “Bankruptcy Case”).        

                                            FACTS 

                   Miller Energy Acquires and Overvalues the Alaska Assets 

       6.     In the fall of 2009, Miller Energy became aware of certain oil and gas properties in 
Alaska that were in the process of being “abandoned” as part of the bankruptcy proceedings of a 
California-based energy company.   
        
       7.     Unable to service its heavy debt and pay the significant monthly costs required to 
operate the properties, the bankrupt entity unsuccessfully sought for almost a year to sell its Alaska 
Assets.  Beginning in December 2008, months before it filed for bankruptcy, the former owner of 
the assets marketed the same group of assets that Miller Energy ultimately bought to 40 potential 
buyers.  This process failed to attract any bidders, and the assets were auctioned by the bankruptcy 

                                                3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 

court in July 2009, with the winning bidder agreeing to a total purchase price of $8 million for the 
assets.  A second entity, who bid $7 million, was designated as the back-up purchaser.  Neither 
bidder closed.    
        
       8.      As a result, the former owner of the assets sought in August 2009, and was granted 
in September, an order from the bankruptcy court allowing it to abandon title to the assets due to a 
lack of interest.   
        
       9.      Due to renewed interest in the assets from Miller Energy following their 
abandonment, the bankruptcy court permitted the debtor to reacquire the Alaska Assets and sell 
them to Miller Energy in a competitive auction for $2.25 million in cash and the assumption of 
certain limited liabilities.  The transaction closed on December 10, 2009.   
        
       10.    On March 22, 2010, Miller Energy filed its quarterly report on Form 10-Q for its 
fiscal third quarter ended January 31, 2010 and reported a value of $480 million for the Alaska 
acquisition.  That amount was comprised of $368 million for oil and gas properties and $110 
million for fixed assets.  Miller Energy also reported an after-tax $277 million “bargain purchase 
gain” which boosted net income for the quarter to $272 million – an enormous increase over the 
$556,097 loss reported for the same period the year before. 
        
       11.    These inflated balance sheet and income statement numbers were repeated in 
numerous documents subsequently filed with the Commission, including the Company’s Form 10-
K for the year ended April 30, 2010.   
        
       12.    The newly-booked value of the Alaska acquisition, which resulted in a nearly 
5,000% increase in Miller Energy’s total assets, had a significant impact on Miller Energy’s stock 
price.  On December 10, 2009, the date of the transaction, Miller Energy’s stock closed at $0.61 
per share.  By March 31, 2010, Miller Energy’s stock closed 982% higher at $6.60 per share.  
Weeks later, its stock began trading on NASDAQ and, after moving to the NYSE a year later, 
reached an all-time high price on December 9, 2013 of $8.83 per share.   
        
       13.    Miller Energy materially overstated the value of its Alaska Assets by more than 
four hundred million dollars. 
        
              Miller Energy Failed to Record the Alaska Acquisition at Fair Value 
                                                  
       14.    ASC 805, Business Combinations – formerly Statement of Financial Accounting 
Standards (“SFAS”) 141(R) – became effective in December 2008.  Among its principal revisions, 
ASC 805 requires acquisitions that result in a “bargain purchase,” e.g., entities purchased at fire 
sales prices in non-orderly transactions, to be measured at fair value, with any resulting gain 
recorded on the income statement. 
        
       15.    ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements (formerly SFAS 157), provides the framework 
for measuring fair value.  “Fair value” is defined in ASC 820 as “the price that would be received 
to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at 

                                                4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 

the measurement date.”  A reporting entity must determine an appropriate fair value using one or 
more of the valuation techniques described in accounting literature. 
         
        16.     ASC 820 outlines three broad approaches to measure fair value: the market 
approach, income approach, and cost approach.  Under the market approach, prices and other 
relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable assets or 
liabilities are used to measure fair value.  The income approach utilizes valuation techniques to 
convert future amounts to a single discounted present value amount.  Finally, the cost approach is 
based on the amount that currently would be required to replace the assets in service, i.e., current 
replacement cost. 
         
        17.     ASC 820 emphasizes that fair value is a market-based measurement, not an entity-
specific measurement, and should be determined based on the assumptions market participants 
would use in pricing the asset or liability. 
         
        18.     ASC 820 emphasizes that when a price for an identical asset or liability is not 
observable entities should use a “valuation technique that maximizes the use of relevant observable 
inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs” and entities may not ignore assumptions 
                                 4
market participants would use.     
         
        19.     Miller Energy purported to value the Alaska acquisition using the income approach 
for the oil and gas reserves and the cost approach for certain fixed assets.  But the values that 
Miller Energy recorded for these assets did not reflect fair value and thus did not comply with 
GAAP. 
         
                        The Valuation of the Acquired Oil and Gas Reserves 
             Was Based Upon a Reserve Report, Which Did Not Represent Fair Value 
         
        20.     Reserve reports are commonly used in the oil and gas industry to estimate quantities 
                                                                                      5
of oil and gas (the reserves) expected to be recovered from existing properties.          Generally, these 

                                                  
4
        ASC 820 defines “unobservable inputs” as “inputs that reflect the reporting entity’s own assumptions about 
the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on the best 
information available in the circumstances” and “observable inputs” as “inputs that reflect the assumptions market 
participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on market data obtained from sources 
independent of the reporting entity.”  
5
        Oil and gas reporting companies are subject to two principal authoritative pronouncements governing 
fina ncial accounting and reporting for oil and gas activities: Rule 4- 10 of Regulation S-X ( 17 C.F.R. 210.4- 10),  
Financial Accounting and Reporting for Oil and Gas Producing Activities Pursuant to the Federal Securities Laws 
and the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975 (“Rule 4-10”); and ASC 932-235-50-29 through 33 (formerly 
SFAS 19, Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Companies and SFAS 69, Disclosures 
About Oil and Gas Producing Activities).  ASC 932 establishes disclosure requirements for significant oil and gas 
activities, including disclosure of the “standardized measure,” which is the future after-tax net cash flows discounted 
at 10%. A non-GAAP measure known as “PV-10” is similar to the standardized measure but is typically presented 
on a pretax basis.  The FASB has noted that the standardized measure supplies investors with useful information, 
however, they also noted their concern “that users of financial statements understand that it is neither fair market 
                                                                                              continued . . .  
                                                      5 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 

reports list reserves in categories based on a minimum estimated percentage probability of eventual 
recovery and production, i.e., proved, probable, and possible.  Information in reserve reports that 
are prepared in accordance with Commission regulations is frequently used, for among other 
purposes, to satisfy supplemental accounting disclosure requirements concerning estimates of 
future oil and gas production.  However, the numbers used in reserve reports for this purpose are 
expressly not considered “an estimate of fair market value.”   
        
       21.    To value the Alaska Assets oil and gas reserves, Miller Energy used a reserve report 
prepared by an independent petroleum engineer firm that used a pretax present value of net cash 
flows discounted at 10% (“PV-10”).  That reserve report reflected a PV-10 of $368 million.  
        
       22.    Although that reserve report specifically cautioned that “[t]he discounted values 
shown are for your information and should not be construed as our estimate of fair market value,” 
Miller Energy, without undertaking any additional analysis, recorded as the fair value of the 
acquired oil and gas properties the sum of the PV-10 estimates for 100% of the proved, probable, 
and possible reserves.   
        
       23.    The $368 million reserve report value did not represent fair value for several 
reasons. 
        
       24.    First, the reserve report did not represent fair value in part because the $237 million 
of projected operating and capital expenses that Miller Energy provided the petroleum engineer 
were unrealistically low, resulting in an overstated valuation.  For example, internal Miller Energy 
documents indicate that the cost to drill certain new wells was roughly $13 million.  However, 
Miller Energy told the petroleum engineer firm to use a cost of $4.6 million per well in its reserve 
report.  And instead of using recent expense data, Miller Energy gave the engineer firm nearly 
three year old operating expense data, which in some cases, was even further reduced.   

       25.    Overall, the reserve report implied operating expenses of $4 per barrel of oil 
equivalent (“boe”) for all categories of reserves.  That level of operating expenses was 
unreasonable in light of its predecessor’s actual operating expenses of $32.50/boe in 2008 and 
$55.42/boe in the first half of 2009, before the wells were shut-in. 
        
       26.    Vogt was aware of the potential problems with the expense projections, cautioning 
the Company’s Chief Financial Officer in December 2009 that the lack of any controls over the 
expense estimates was a “concerning void.” 
        
       27.    Second, the reserve report did not include amounts for certain asset retirement 
obligations, i.e., the legal obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets.   

                                                                                                                                                             
value nor the present value of future cash flows. It is a rough surrogate for such measures, a tool to allow for a 
reasonable comparison of mineral reserves and changes through the use of a standardized method that recognizes 
qualitative, quantitative, geographic, and temporal characteristics.”  Paragraph 83 of the Basis for Conclusions of 
SFAS 69.     

                                                   6 
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 

            
       28.    Third, despite showing years of net profit that market participants would expect to 
be taxable, the reserve report did not make any adjustments for income taxes. 
        
       29.    Fourth, the reserve report used a 10% discount rate that was inappropriate under 
GAAP for determining fair value.  In a discounted cash flow model, a discount rate is used to 
account for the uncertainties associated with risk and the time value of money.  A discount rate is 
the required rate of return that an investor would demand – based on the risks associated with the 
benefit stream under consideration – to induce the investor to make an investment.  The 10% 
standard discount rate failed to consider assumptions market participants would use for the Alaska 
Assets given the unique risks associated with those assets.   
        
       30.    Finally, the valuation also overstated cash flows from certain categories of reserve 
estimates (e.g., “probable” and “possible” reserves) by failing to apply any risk weight to such 
reserves and the resulting cash flows.  Given the high degree of uncertainty associated with cash 
flows from these reserve estimate categories, they are required to be risk weighted in order to 
reflect an appropriate valuation. 
        
                        Miller Energy Improperly Valued the Fixed Assets 
        
       31.    In addition to the $368 million value recorded for the oil and gas properties, Miller 
Energy also erroneously recorded a separate value of $110 million for acquired fixed assets, such 
as facilities and pipelines ancillary to the oil and gas reserves.  This valuation violated GAAP for 
several reasons.   
        
       32.    First, recording a separate and additional value for the fixed assets essentially 
amounted to double counting those assets.  Specifically, the reserve report Miller Energy relied on 
to value the acquired oil and gas properties used a discounted cash flow model.  Valuation 
specialists use such models to estimate the value of an enterprise’s “operating assets” – i.e., the 
assets employed to generate future cash flows – by converting future benefit streams into a net 
present value.  In Miller Energy’s case, the fixed assets were the very same operating assets that 
were expected to generate the future cash flows in the reserve report.  Accordingly, they should not 
have been separately valued. 
        
       33.    Second, Miller Energy improperly relied on an insurance report for the fair value of 
the fixed assets.  The values for the fixed assets in that report had been given to the insurance 
broker, and its predecessor, by its clients (i.e., Miller Energy and the previous owners of the fixed 
assets) as far back as 2007 and were used as starting points for other types of estimates, such as 
estimates for possible losses resulting from fire or natural disasters. 
        
       34.    The two employees at the insurance broker who were most familiar with the 
original report stated that no one at the broker ever tested or in any way double-checked the values 
given to them.   
        

                                                  7 
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 

       35.    Finally, the values in that report purported to show “asset replacement cost.”   
Absent further adjustments, replacement cost new does not qualify as fair value under GAAP.    
        
                          Vogt’s Fiscal Year 2010 Audit of Miller Energy 

       36.    As described below, Vogt failed to perform the 2010 Miller Energy audit in 
accordance with PCAOB Standards.  These deficiencies included, among other items, failing 
properly to audit the fair value measurements, use the work of a specialist, plan, staff and supervise 
the audit, obtain sufficient competent audit evidence, exercise due care and professional 
skepticism, and perform required audit testing.   
        
       37.    In August 2008, Miller Energy hired Sherb & Co. to become the company’s 
independent public accountant.  Vogt led an audit team that audited Miller Energy’s financial 
statements for fiscal years ended 2009 and 2010.   
         
       38.    As the partner in charge of the fiscal year 2010 Miller Energy audit, Vogt failed to 
perform the 2010 Miller Energy audit in accordance with PCAOB Standards.   

       39.    Vogt’s failures related to the auditing of the Alaska asset acquisition.  Despite the 
materiality of the transaction on Miller Energy’s financial statements, Vogt failed to adequately 
test the valuation of the assets and the related calculation of the gain on acquisition.  Instead, he 
inappropriately relied on the aforementioned reserve report and the so-called asset replacement 
cost study to justify Miller Energy’s $480 million valuation of the Alaska Assets.   

       40.    Vogt did not perform the necessary procedures to enable him to use the findings of 
                                      6
the reserve report.  See AU § 336.12.  He and his audit staff performed a limited  evaluation  of  the 
petroleum engineer  firm ’s work and its qualifications as a specialist (as a petroleum engineer, not 
as a fair value appraiser).  The reserve report, which was included in the audit workpapers, clearly 
stated that the engineer firm was not engaged to – and did not in fact – perform a fair value 
estimate for the Alaska Assets.  Among other significant flaws, Vogt never obtained an 
understanding of the objectives and scope of the specialist’s work or the appropriateness of using 
the specialist’s work for the purpose of fair valuing the assets.  See AU § 336.09. Nor did he make 
the appropriate tests of data provided to the specialist, including operating and capital expenses 
estimated and provided by Miller Energy.  See AU § 336.12. 

       41.    The audit of the recorded fixed assets of $110 million was similarly flawed.  A 
member of the audit team obtained the asset replacement cost study and placed a copy of it in the 
workpapers, but Vogt failed to consider the nature of the fixed assets and whether they would be 
utilized to generate the cash flow from the oil and gas properties, and, if so, what remainder value 
would exist.  Nor did Vogt or the audit team perform any meaningful work to consider the 
expertise and experience of those persons determining the fair value measurement, the significant 

                                                 
6
       References in this order are to the PCAOB standards in effect at the time of the relevant conduct. 

                                                  8 
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

 

management assumptions used in determining the fair value, and the documentation supporting 
management’s assumptions.  See AU § 328.12.   

       42.    Vogt knew at the time of the accounting for the acquisition that Miller Energy had 
insufficient accounting staff and that any accounting was suspect.  In a December 22, 2009 email 
to Miller Energy’s senior management, Vogt indicated that he believed the Company’s accounting 
staff was deficient, and that the Company’s CFO cut too many corners on the accounting 
documentation. Furthermore, Vogt stated that Miller Energy’s modeling of cash flows and 
expenses was “concerning” because there was no one taking a detailed look at the cost estimates 
that the CEO of Miller Energy’s Alaska subsidiary provided to the petroleum engineer for the 
Alaska Assets.  In an email dated March 17, 2011, Vogt also knew that the reserve report used 
suspect data and was completed on what he described as a “rushed basis,” as Miller Energy “had 
very little time if none for any true due diligence of much depth into what [it] purchased.”   

       43.    Vogt, on behalf of Sherb & Co., issued an audit report containing an unqualified 
opinion for use in Miller Energy’s 2010 Form 10-K that stated falsely that the audit had been 
conducted in accordance with the PCAOB’s standards and that Miller Energy’s financial 
statements were presented fairly, in all material respects, in conformity with GAAP.  The specific 
failures are detailed below.   

             Failures Auditing Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (AU § 328) 

       44.    AU § 328 requires auditors to obtain sufficient competent audit evidence to provide 
reasonable assurance that fair value measurements and disclosures are in conformity with GAAP. 
AU § 328.03.  The standard provides that “[t]he auditor should test the data used to develop the fair 
value measurements and disclosures and evaluate whether the fair value measurements have been 
properly determined” including “whether the data on which the fair value measurements are based, 
including the data used in the work of a specialist, is accurate, complete and relevant . . . .” AU § 
328.39.  In addition, “[t]he auditor should evaluate the sufficiency and competence of the audit 
evidence obtained from auditing fair value measurements and disclosures as well as the 
consistency of that evidence with other audit evidence obtained and evaluated during the audit.” 
AU § 328.47.  If a valuation model is utilized, the auditor reviews the model and evaluates whether 
the assumptions used are reasonable.  AU § 328.38. 

       45.    Vogt failed to comply with these requirements in connection with the 2010 audit of 
Miller Energy.  While Vogt performed some testing on the data used to create the reserve report, 
he failed to test key elements such as the discount rate utilized, the risk weighting of the probable 
and possible reserves, estimated oil prices, and operating and capital expenses.  Vogt also never 
properly considered the relevancy of the reserve report, improperly relying exclusively on the 
report since the specialist, a petroleum engineer, was not engaged to estimate a fair valuation, as 
expressly indicated in the report.  Nor did he consider the consistency of the evidence in light of 
the other evidence, such as Miller Energy’s actual purchase price of the assets (reported at less than 
$5 million), and the fact that the assets had previously been abandoned during a bankruptcy 
proceeding. While Vogt and his staff reviewed some aspects of the specialist’s valuation model, 
they failed to sufficiently review and evaluate the reasonableness of assumptions such as the 

                                                9 
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

 

discount rate, risk weighting of certain reserves, future oil prices, and operating and capital 
expenses. 

       46.    Vogt also failed to obtain sufficient audit evidence to support the fair value of the 
fixed assets.  Vogt performed limited, if any, testing of the asset replacement cost study 
purportedly supporting the fixed asset valuation.  He did not assess the competency or sufficiency 
of the asset replacement cost study, or understand who created the study, their qualifications, and 
the data underlying their valuation.  Finally, Vogt failed to consider whether some or all of the 
fixed assets were being utilized in the estimated values captured in the reserve report. 

                       Failure in Using the Work of a Specialist (AU § 336) 

       47.    AU § 336 provides guidance to auditors when the work of a specialist is used in 
performing an audit of financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Among other 
items, the standard requires the auditor to evaluate the specialist to ensure that the specialist 
possesses the necessary skill or knowledge in the type of work under consideration and the 
appropriateness of using the specialist’s work for the intended purpose.  Specifically, AU § 336.08 
states that “[t]he auditor should consider the following to evaluate the professional qualifications of 
the specialist in determining that the specialist possesses the necessary skill or knowledge in the 
particular field:  

               a.  The professional certification, license, or other recognition of the competence of 
                   the specialist in his or her field, as appropriate 

               b.  The reputation and standing of the specialist in the views of peers and others 
                   familiar with the specialist’s capability or performance 

               c.  The specialist's experience in the type of work under consideration.” 

       48.    Furthermore, AU § 336.09 states “[t]he auditor should obtain an understanding of 
the nature of the work performed or to be performed by the specialist. This understanding should 
cover the following: 

               a.  The objectives and scope of the specialist’s work 

               b.  The specialist's relationship to the client  

               c.  The methods or assumptions used 

               d.  A comparison of the methods or assumptions used with those used in the 
                   preceding period 

               e.  The appropriateness of using the specialist's work for the intended purpose  

                                                 10 
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

 

               f.  The form and content of the specialist’s findings that will enable the auditor to 
                                                                            7
                   make the evaluation described in paragraph [336].12.”  

       49.    Although the Standard allows an auditor to use the work of a specialist as evidential 
matter in performing substantive tests to evaluate material financial statement assertions (see AU § 
336.03), Vogt failed in several respects in his use of a specialist regarding the valuation of Miller 
Energy’s Alaska acquisition.   

       50.    Vogt did not properly consider the petroleum engineer’s experience in fair 
valuation of assets, which was nonexistent.  See AU § 336.08.  Vogt also failed to obtain an 
understanding of the objectives and scope and intended purpose of the petroleum engineer’s 
engagement for Miller Energy, which was to produce a reserve report for reserve disclosure 
purposes, not a fair valuation of acquired assets.  See AU § 336.09.   Indeed, the single page of the 
reserve report included in Vogt’s workpapers, to support his evaluation of Miller Energy’s $368 
million valuation, clearly states that the “values shown . . . should not be construed as our estimate 
of fair market value.”   

       51.    Furthermore, Vogt failed to adequately obtain an understanding of the methods and 
assumptions used by the specialist, or appropriately test data provided to the specialist.  See AU § 
336.12.  There is no evidence that Vogt considered the appropriateness of certain key assumptions 
used by the petroleum engineer, such as the discount rate, estimated price of oil and gas, and the 
lack of risk weighting of probable and possible reserves.  Finally, Vogt, despite alerting Miller 
Energy’s then CEO and CFO to the lack of sufficient review and inquiry, failed to adequately test 
the operating and capital expense estimates provided to the specialist by Miller Energy, and took 
few audit steps, other than inquiry, to assess the reasonableness of the expense estimates.  

       52.    Vogt performed no steps to evaluate the qualifications of the authors of the asset 
replacement cost study, or understand the methods or assumptions they used or the appropriateness 
of using the Asset replacement cost study to support the valuation of the fixed assets at $110 
million. 

        Failure to Exercise Due Professional Care in the Performance of Work (AU § 230)  

       53.    PCAOB Standards require auditors to exercise due professional care in the planning 
and performance of the audit.  See AU § 230.01.  Due professional care requires the auditor to 
exercise professional skepticism: an attitude that includes a questioning mind and a critical 
assessment of audit evidence.  See AU § 230.07.  Moreover, gathering and objectively evaluating 
audit evidence requires the auditor to consider the competency and sufficiency of the evidence.  
See AU § 230.08.     

                                                 
7
       AU § 336.12 states that an auditor should evaluate the appropriateness and reasonableness of methods and 
assumptions used, during which the auditor should: “(a) obtain an understanding of the methods and assumptions 
used by the specialist, (b) make appropriate tests of data provided to the specialist, taking into account the auditor's 
assessment of control risk, and (c) evaluate whether the specialist's findings support the related assertions in the 
financial statements.” 

                                                  11 
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

 

       54.    Vogt failed to exercise due professional care regarding the audit of the Alaska 
acquisition valuation during the 2010 Miller Energy audit.  Miller Energy had valued the assets 
purchased for a few million dollars at $480 million and had recorded a corresponding $277 million 
bargain purchase gain.  Given the size of the transaction, Vogt should have focused more closely 
on the diligence required to gather and objectively evaluate the evidence supporting the fair value 
of the oil and gas properties acquired to comply with ASC 805 and common industry practice. He 
failed to adequately consider the competency and sufficiency of the reserve report as evidence of 
the fair value of the acquired oil and gas properties.  Vogt also performed limited procedures and 
failed to sufficiently evaluate the evidentiary value of the asset replacement cost study, including 
failing to understand the source of the fixed asset values therein and the competency of the report 
authors.   

                              Failure to Plan and Supervise (AU § 311) 

       55.    AU § 311 requires an auditor to adequately plan the work and properly supervise 
assistants.  AU § 311.01.  In planning the audit, the auditor should consider, among other matters, 
the entity’s business, the entity’s accounting policies and procedures, and planned assessed level of 
control risk. AU § 311.03.  A written audit program is required.  AU § 311.05.  Supervision 
involves directing the efforts of assistants who are involved in accomplishing the objectives of the 
audit and determining whether those objectives were accomplished.  The extent of supervision 
appropriate in a given instance depends on many factors, including the complexity of the subject 
matter and the qualifications of persons performing the work.  AU § 311.11.   

       56.    Vogt’s work did not meet this standard.  Vogt’s audit program to test Miller 
Energy’s fair value assessment of the Alaska acquisition was insufficient.  The planned procedures 
largely consisted of verifying the credentials of a specialist.  Vogt’s audit program failed to set 
forth procedures necessary to ensure the appropriateness of using the specialist’s work for the 
purpose of a fair valuation.  Nor did his audit program provide additional and alternate procedures 
for the insufficient evidence provided by the work of the specialist.  As to the fixed assets, Vogt’s 
program was insufficient in that it merely required agreeing the asset balance to the Asset 
replacement cost study provided by Miller Energy. 

       57.    Vogt’s supervision of his staff was also deficient. Vogt spent little time on-site 
while the field work was conducted, and he knew the staff auditors had insufficient oil and gas 
industry experience.  It was evident during their respective testimonies that the two staff members 
assigned by Vogt to the Miller Energy audit, whose experience consisted almost entirely of 
auditing microcap companies, were ill-prepared to test a transaction purportedly valued in excess 
of $400 million.  The most junior staff member was not a Certified Public Accountant, did not 
appear to comprehend basic accounting principles, including elementary aspects of fair value 
accounting, yet was charged with the testing of the oil and gas properties fair valuation.         

      Failure to Properly Assess Audit Risk and Materiality in Conducting an Audit (AU § 312) 

       58.    AU § 312 states that, when an auditor has concluded that there is a significant risk 
of material misstatement of the financial statements, the auditor should consider this conclusion in 

                                                12 
 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

 

determining the nature, timing, or extent of procedures; assigning staff; or requiring appropriate 
levels of supervision.  Ordinarily, higher risk requires more experienced personnel or more 
extensive supervision by the auditor with final responsibility for the engagement during both the 
planning and the conduct of the engagement.  Higher risk may cause the auditor to expand the 
extent of procedures applied, apply procedures closer to or as of year-end, particularly in critical 
audit areas, or modify the nature of procedures to obtain more persuasive evidence. AU § 312.17 

       59.    Vogt’s knowledge of the magnitude of the Alaska acquisition, and his knowledge 
of the inadequacy of Miller Energy’s accounting personnel, including the Company’s CFO, should 
have resulted in increased scrutiny of Miller Energy’s valuation of the Alaska Assets.  Yet Vogt 
assigned crucial audit procedures to staff who lacked appropriate industry and auditing experience, 
and did not sufficiently supervise their work. 

                Failure to Obtain Sufficient Competent Evidential Matter (AU § 326) 

       60.    Under the third standard of field work, sufficient competent evidential matter is to 
be obtained through inspection, observation, inquiries, and confirmations to afford a reasonable 
basis for an opinion regarding the financial statements under audit.  AU § 326.01.  Since he over 
relied on a reserve report and the asset replacement cost study, and took limited to no additional 
audit steps to test that audit evidence, Vogt failed to obtain sufficient evidence for the fair value of 
the Alaska acquisition.   

                      Failure to Issue an Accurate Audit Report (AU § 508) 

       61.    Under AU § 508, an auditor may only express an unqualified opinion on historical 
financial statements when the auditor has formed such an opinion on the basis of an audit 
performed in accordance with PCAOB standards.  AU § 508.07.  Based upon the audit failures 
discussed above, Vogt should not have issued an audit report containing an unqualified opinion on 
Miller Energy’s fiscal year 2010 financial statements. 

                                         VIOLATIONS 
                                                  
       62.    As a result of the conduct described above, Vogt engaged in a single instance of 
highly unreasonable conduct in circumstances for which heightened scrutiny was warranted within 
the meaning of Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.  Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provide, in 
pertinent part, that the Commission may censure or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege 
of appearing or practicing before the Commission to any person who is found by the Commission 
to have engaged in improper professional conduct.  Section 4C(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 
102(e)(1)(iv) define improper professional conduct with respect to persons license to practice as 
accountants as (1) a single instance of highly unreasonable conduct in circumstances for which 
heightened scrutiny is warranted; or (2) repeated instances of unreasonable conduct that indicate a 
lack of competence.   

        

                                                13 
 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

 

                                               IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in the Respondent’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.      Vogt is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant. 

       B.      After three years from the date of this Order, Vogt may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as:  
 
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Vogt’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
 
                      (a)     Vogt, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such 
registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)     Vogt, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in Vogt’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that the 
respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
 
                      (c)     Vogt has resolved all disciplinary issues with the PCAOB, and has 
complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the PCAOB (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Vogt acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Vogt appears or 
practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all requirements 
of the Commission and the PCAOB, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to 
registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards. 
 
       C.      The Commission will consider an application by Vogt to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, if 

                                               14 
 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

 

state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an 
application on its other merits. The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition 
to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Vogt’s character, integrity, 
professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 

        

                                                             Brent J. Fields 
                                                             Secretary 

                                                 15 
 
