---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                            Before the 
                         SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

      SECURITIES ACT OF 1933  
      Release No. 10281 / January 18, 2017 

      SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
      Release No. 79815 / January 18, 2017  

      ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
      Release No. 3845 / January 18, 2017  

      ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
      File No. 3-17791 

                                               ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
                                               DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
      In the Matter of 
                                               SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT OF 
                                               1933 AND SECTION 21C OF THE 
      ORTHOFIX INTERNATIONAL N.V. 
                                               SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, 
      Respondent.                              MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                               REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-
                                               AND-DESIST ORDER 

       

                                                I. 

             The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
      cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the 
      Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 
      1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Orthofix International N.V. (“Orthofix” or “Respondent”). 

                                                II. 

             In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
      of Settlement (“Offer”) that the Commission has determined to accept.   Respondent admits the 
      facts set forth in Paragraphs 1 through 93 below, acknowledges that its conduct violated the 
      federal securities laws, admits the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of 
      these proceedings, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist 
      Proceedings pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21C of the 
      Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a 
      Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   

       

 

 

 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

        

                                                       III. 

                                                                                         1
                                                                                           
               On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 

                                                  SUMMARY 

               From at least 2011 to mid-2013 (“the relevant period”), Orthofix materially overstated its 
       distributor revenue and operating income in various annual and quarterly reports and earnings 
       releases filed with the Commission.  The majority of this misconduct occurred at Orthofix’s 
       then-largest segment, its Spine segment (“Spine”).  In particular, Orthofix improperly recognized 
       revenue associated with several transactions with Spine’s distributors, including its largest 
       international distributor during the relevant period.  Among other things, it entered into 
       contingent sales with that distributor and also recognized revenue for product sales when the 
       product could not be resold due to Orthofix’s delay in providing a required associated product.  
       Moreover, in the domestic section of Spine, Orthofix improperly accounted for certain 
       transactions by treating certain price discounts as expenses instead of a reduction to revenue and 
       recognizing revenue on transactions in which the purchaser had the ability to return or exchange 
       products. 

               Orthofix’s misconduct, however, was not limited to Spine as it also improperly 
       recognized revenue in its Orthopedics Segment through extra-contractual agreements used at its 
       Brazilian subsidiary.  Moreover, throughout the relevant period, Orthofix had inadequate internal 
       accounting controls over its distributor revenue recognition and had a culture of setting 
       aggressive internal sales targets and imposing pressure to meet those sales targets.   

               As a result of its misconduct, Orthofix restated its financial results for the first quarter of 
       fiscal year 2013, all reporting periods in fiscal years 2012 and 2011, and its annual reporting 
       period in fiscal year 2010.  For example, Orthofix announced that it had overstated its net sales 
       for fiscal year 2011 by 6% and its operating income by over 430%.  By engaging in the 
       foregoing misconduct, Orthofix violated the antifraud, reporting, books and records, and internal 
       accounting controls provisions of the federal securities laws, namely Sections 17(a)(2) and 
       17(a)(3) of the Securities Act and Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, 
       and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder. 

                                                RESPONDENT 

               Orthofix International N.V. (“Orthofix”) is a company organized under the laws of 
       Curacao and is headquartered in Lewisville, Texas.  It is a diversified medical device company 
       that develops and sells products used by doctors and other medical specialists to treat and repair 
       human spine and orthopedic conditions.  Orthofix’s common stock is registered with the 
       Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and trades on the NASDAQ.  
                                                        

       1
         
               The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer and are not binding on any other person or 
                                        
       entity in this or any other proceeding.

                                                        2 
 

 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

        

       Orthofix’s fiscal year ends on December 31.  During the relevant period, Orthofix sold securities 
       to its employees pursuant to Form S-8 registration statements filed with the Commission.  A 
       broad range of employees could purchase Orthofix stock in these offerings via payroll 
       deductions.  During the relevant period, the Form S-8 registration statements incorporated by 
       reference the company’s public filings with the Commission. 

                                     OTHER RELEVANT PERSONS 

              The Spine CFO served as the Chief Financial Officer of Orthofix’s Spine Segment from 
       July 2010 until he resigned in approximately February 2013.     

              The Spine President served as the President of Orthofix’s Spine Segment from 
       November 2011 through November 2012.  The Spine President is no longer employed by 
       Orthofix.   

              The Spine Sales VP served as the Vice President of Global Sales and Development for 
       the international portion of Orthofix’s Spine Segment from March 2011 until May 2013.  The 
       Spine Sales VP is no longer employed by Orthofix. 

              The Corporate CFO served as Orthofix’s Chief Financial Officer from March 2011 
       through November 2012.  In November 2012, the Corporate CFO became the President of 
       Orthofix’s Spine Segment until he left Orthofix in July 2013.  In the Order, we use the term New 
       Spine President/Prior Corporate CFO to describe this person’s conduct from November 2012 
       and beyond. 

                                                  FACTS 

          A.  Orthofix’s Business and Structure 
               
          1.  Orthofix’s business was primarily divided into two Global Business Segments during the 
              relevant period – Spine and Orthopedics.  During the relevant period, Spine was 
              Orthofix’s largest segment and contributed two-thirds of the company’s overall revenues. 

          2.  Spine had several operating divisions during the relevant period.  For example, Orthofix 
              Spinal Implants (“OSI”) was responsible for international sales of spinal implants and 
              related instruments. 

          3.  During the relevant period, the Spine CFO was responsible for the accounting and 
              financial functions of Spine, including preparing its operating results (which were 
              included in Orthofix’s public filings with the Commission).   

          4.  The Spine CFO reported directly to Spine’s President, a salesperson, during the relevant 
              period.  The Spine President was in charge of Spine’s sales and overall management.  
              The Spine President had several sales persons who worked under him, including an 
              individual who served as Spine’s Vice President of Global Sales and Development 
              (“Spine Sales VP”). 

                                                      3 
 

 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

        

           5.  In essence, the Spine Sales VP was the relationship manager for a number of 
               relationships that OSI had with certain international distributors.  The Spine Sales VP had 
               a sales team of approximately four employees who reported to him and had day-to-day 
               responsibility for certain distributor relationships. 

           6.  While the Spine CFO reported directly to the Spine President during the relevant period, 
               the Spine CFO also had dotted line reporting responsibility to Orthofix’s Corporate CFO 
               (hereinafter “Corporate CFO”).  The Corporate CFO was responsible for the preparation 
               of Orthofix’s public filings, including its consolidated financial results.   

           7.  Spine sold various products including spinal and cervical implants and related 
               instruments.  The instruments and implants were interconnected as implants could not be 
               used in patients without functioning instrument sets.  

           8.  Spine sold the above products through two primary methods:  (i) sales of its products to 
               U.S. and international distributors who then sold the products to hospitals and physicians 
               and (ii) sales of its products directly to hospitals and physicians in the U.S. 

           B.  Orthofix’s Revenue Recognition Policies and Practices and Distributor Business Practices 
                
                  a.  Revenue Recognition Policies and Practices 
                
           9.  ASC 605-10-25-1 provides that revenue may be recognized only when it is both realized 
               or realizable and earned.  Consistent with the authoritative literature, Orthofix’s financial 
               statements disclosed four criteria as its revenue recognition policy. 

           10. The four criteria are: (i) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (ii) delivery has 
               occurred or services have been rendered; (iii) the seller’s price to the buyer is fixed and 
               determinable; and (iv) collectability is reasonably assured. 

           11. Other than the four criteria disclosed in its filings, Orthofix did not have any other 
               revenue recognition policies during the relevant period and failed to adequately document 
               how it satisfied the four criteria with respect to the sales transactions that were recognized 
               as revenue.  Moreover, Orthofix could not and did not reasonably estimate the revenue 
               recognition impact of the amount of future returns when extra-contractual agreements 
               included rights of return. 

           12. With limited exceptions, Orthofix recognized revenue during the relevant period based on 
               the “sell-in” method, which provides for revenue recognition upon shipment of products 
               to the distributor. 

                  b.  Distributor Business Practices During the Relevant Period 

           13. Orthofix entered into written agreements with distributors of its product.  These 
               distributor agreements provided, among other things, standard payment terms for 
               purchase of products.  These standard payment terms ranged typically from 90 to 180 
               days.   

                                                        4 
 

 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

        

           14. During the relevant period, Spine had an unwritten policy requiring that modifications to 
               the terms in existing distributor agreements had to be approved by the Spine CFO.  The 
               Spine CFO’s approval authority in this regard extended to all aspects of distributor 
               agreement terms, including pricing, commissions, discounts, extensions of payment 
               terms, payment plans, returns, and exchanges.  The Spine CFO was the only person 
               within OSI who had any type of revenue recognition training. 

           15. Moreover, Orthofix did not have any policies and procedures requiring the analysis 
               and/or documentation of the impact, from a revenue recognition perspective, of 
               modifications to the standard contractual terms contained in distributor agreements. 

           C.  Orthofix Aggressively Set Internal Sales Targets and Imposed Pressure to Meet those 
               Targets 
                
           16. During the relevant period, Orthofix had a culture of aggressively setting internal sales 
               targets and imposing pressure upon its sales personnel to meet those targets.  

           17. Spine generally set sales targets in the following manner.  Towards the end of a fiscal 
               year, the Spine sales leaders prepared sales forecasts (by month, quarter, and for the year) 
               for the upcoming fiscal year and sent those forecasts to the Spine President and Spine 
               CFO.  The Spine President and Spine CFO then reviewed and approved the forecasts 
               before adding the costs components to prepare a budget which included the revenue 
               targets.   

           18. The budget was then sent to the then-Company CEO who approved the budget or rejected 
               it.  If the budget was rejected, it was revised for review and resubmitted to the Company 
               CEO for approval. 

           19. On August 28, 2012 –  and reflecting the pressure imposed to meet revenue targets – the 
               Spine Sales VP sent the following email to his sales team with the subject line 
               “September Gut:” 

                  I need your gut feeling on the revenue we can generate in September.  We need $2 
                  million in addition to what is on the portal . . .based on the feedback I have received I 
                  have gotten so far, we are off about $1.5 million.  I know what people say they need, 
                  but as you know this is important.  We need to ask everyone to purchase just a bit 
                  more . . .if I have to walk into [the Spine President’s] office and tell him we are short 
                  again, that is going to be a major problem. 

           20. After receiving the above email, one of the sales persons who reported to the Spine Sales 
               VP emailed a colleague separately and wrote:  

                  I was just speaking with [the Spine Sales VP] and had finance listened to us last year 
                  we wouldn’t be in this mess.  We all predicted our markets could not sustain this 
                  growth but they got greedy.  Found this budget brutal because here we are for another 
                  year just estimating the dollars. 

                                                       5 
 

 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

        

           D.  Orthofix Improperly Recognized Revenue on Several Transactions with Brazilian 
               Distributor 
                
                  a.  Orthofix Improperly Recognized $5 Million in Revenue in FY 2011 by Selling 
                      Implants without Instrument Sets 
                
           21. OSI had several international distributors during the relevant period, but its largest 
               distributor of product was located in Brazil (hereinafter “the Brazilian Distributor”).  In 
               fact, for eight of the nine quarters from Q1 2011 to Q1 2013, the Brazilian Distributor 
               was the Company’s second largest customer on a revenue per quarter basis. 

           22. Entering 2011, Orthofix had a receivable of approximately $5 million from the Brazilian 
               Distributor from prior sales.  After discussions with the Spine President and Spine Sales 
               VP, the Brazilian Distributor forecasted that it would purchase approximately $8.5 
               million of Orthofix implants and instruments in FY 2011. 

           23. Prior to this time, Orthofix had sold implants along with used instrument sets rather than 
               new ones to the Brazilian Distributor.  As discussed above, implants and instruments 
               were interconnected because the implants could not be used in patients without related 
               instrument sets. 

           24. At this time, however, the Brazilian Distributor could no longer purchase previously used 
               instrument sets because ANVISA (the Brazilian equivalent of the U.S. Food and Drug 
               Administration) imposed new regulations prohibiting the importation of used instrument 
               sets. 

           25. Orthofix did not have the new instrument sets (105 in total) available to be shipped along 
               with the implants it shipped to the Brazilian Distributor.  Rather than waiting until the 
               new instrument sets were available, Orthofix – in FY 2011 – shipped approximately $5 
               million in implants to the Brazilian Distributor despite the fact that these implants could 
               not be used in patients without the new instrument sets. 

           26. Orthofix recognized the approximately $5 million revenue upon shipment of the above 
               implants.  Orthofix’s recognition of revenue in this regard was improper as delivery of 
               the interconnected product – the instruments – had not yet occurred.  Orthofix knew that 
               the implants could not be used in patients without the instruments.  As such, payment 
               timing and terms were contingent upon the instrument sets being made available and 
               therefore, revenue recognition was inconsistent with Orthofix’s accounting policy 
               because it did not meet the fixed or determinable criteria or the collectability criteria.   

           27. This improper recognition of revenue caused Orthofix’s financial statements to be 
               materially misstated in its Forms 10-Q for the second and third quarters of FY 2011 and 
               its year-end Form 10-K for FY 2011 and corresponding earnings releases. 

           28. By the beginning of FY 2012, virtually none of the 105 instrument sets had been shipped 
               to the Brazilian Distributor.  Thus, the Brazilian Distributor refused to pay for the 
               implants because those implants that Orthofix had previously shipped to the Brazilian 
                                                       6 
 

 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

        

              Distributor could not be used without the instrument sets.  As a result, the Brazilian 
              Distributor’s amounts payable to Orthofix increased from approximately $5 million at the 
              beginning of FY 2011 to approximately $11 million at the beginning of FY 2012. 

           29. In March 2012, the Spine President and Spine Sales VP had discussions with the 
              Brazilian Distributor concerning a payment plan to address the increasing amounts 
              payable.  The Brazilian Distributor agreed to pay approximately $4.2 million of the 
              amounts payable by the end of FY 2012 but only if all the remaining 105 instrument sets 
              were delivered by the end of April 2012. 

           30. The Spine President and Spine Sales VP agreed to this payment plan proposal without 
              approval from the Spine CFO.   

           31. By April 30, 2012, Orthofix had only shipped 40 of the 105 instrument sets.  
              Accordingly, in June 2012, the Brazilian Distributor informed the Spine Sales VP and 
              Spine President that it would only pay $1.6 million of its amounts payable in December 
              2012 and $2.6 million in February 2013.   

           32. The Spine President and Spine Sales VP agreed to this payment plan proposal without 
              approval from the Spine CFO.  More broadly – throughout the relevant period – Orthofix 
              did not establish and maintain procedures to reasonably ensure proper communication to 
              the Company’s finance and accounting departments of deviations from contractually 
              established terms, which included written or unwritten agreements made with Company 
              distributors. 

                  b.  Orthofix Improperly Recognized Even More Revenue with the Brazilian 
                      Distributor in Summer 2012 
                       
           33. In late May 2012, the Spine President discussed a product launch plan with the Brazilian 
              Distributor to purchase approximately $2.5 million of a new Orthofix implant product 
              called Firebird.  This product, however, had not yet been approved by ANVISA and, 
              therefore, could not be shipped into Brazil until such approval was obtained.   

           34. The Brazilian Distributor agreed to place the order on the following conditions: (i) one 
              year to pay for the implants contingent on ANVISA approval; (ii) 210 days to pay on all 
              subsequent product orders; and (iii) all corresponding instrument sets needed to be 
              available once ANVISA approved the implants.  Neither Orthofix nor the Brazilian 
              Distributor knew when ANVISA would grant approval. 

           35. Moreover – despite the fact that the Brazilian Distributor was provided 210 days to pay 
              on any subsequent purchase orders – the new payment terms were not reflected in any 
              revised or amended distributor agreement with the Brazilian Distributor. 

           36. The Spine CFO learned of this transaction a few weeks after the product had been 
              shipped but before the company filed its third quarter FY 2012 financial results.  In 
              particular – on July 24, 2012 – the Spine Sales VP forwarded the Spine CFO an email 

                                                      7 
 

 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

        

               describing the transaction along with a series of emails containing prior discussions 
               between him and the Brazilian Distributor’s President.   

           37. The Spine CFO replied to the Spine Sales VP and the Spine President – “[Spine Sales 
               VP], can you please address how we ended up with a full year to pay for the June order.  I 
               have a hard time managing that with a lot of pressure to reduce our ballooning [Days 
               Sales Outstanding] .”  The Spine Sales VP replied, “we accepted this due to the need for 
               that size of an order.” 

           38. Despite the contingent nature of the sale and the Spine CFO’s own concerns about how 
               this transaction would impact the company’s Days Sales Outstanding, the over $2 million 
               in revenue from this transaction was recognized immediately upon shipping the implants 
               to the Brazilian Distributor’s U.S. based subsidiary located in Atlanta, Georgia.   

           39. Orthofix’s recognition of revenue in this regard was improper because the Brazilian 
               Distributor’s obligation to pay, and the payment terms themselves, were contingent upon 
               ANVISA approval and, therefore, revenue recognition was inconsistent with Orthofix’s 
               accounting policy because it did not meet the fixed or determinable criteria or the 
               collectability criteria. 

                  c.  Corporate CFO Became Aware of Issues with Implant Without Instruments 
                      Transactions 
                       
           40. The Corporate CFO – soon after beginning in that role in early 2011 – implemented a 
               general unwritten bad debt policy applicable to both Spine and Orthopedics.  The policy 
               required that any accounts receivable that had been outstanding at least 360 days from the 
               invoice date of a shipment had to be fully reserved as bad debt.  The Corporate CFO, 
               along with the Corporate Controller and Segment CFOs, were responsible for the 
               calculation of the bad debt reserve. 

           41. On August 1, 2012 – two days after Orthofix had filed its Form 10-Q for the second 
               quarter of FY 2012 and as part of the process for handling Orthofix’s bad debt calculation 
               – the Corporate Controller emailed the Spine CFO an aging schedule identifying that as 
               of June 30, 2012 approximately $4 million of amounts owed to OSI was over one year 
               old.2   

           42. The aging schedule contained in this email, however, demonstrated that the allowance for 
               doubtful accounts as of the second quarter of FY 2012 was only $1.6 million (or 40% of 
               accounts receivable over 360 days old).  The Corporate Controller then wrote “what 
               doesn’t make sense is that our policy is to reserve all amounts in the [over one year old 
               bucket].” 

                                                        

       2       Orthofix used the term “360+ day bucket” to denote amounts due over one year old. 

                                                       8 
 

 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

        

           43. The Corporate Controller then forwarded the email to the Corporate CFO and wrote the 
              following: 

                      I spoke with [the Spine CFO] on this.  The rationale for not reserving all of the 
                      360+ bucket for [Spine] is that technically the receivable balance from [the 
                      Brazilian Distributor] is not >360 days old since they have extended terms in their 
                      contract.  The aging schedule is based on days past the invoice date for all 
                      [accounts receivable].  To further exacerbate the situation, [the Brazilian 
                      Distributor] could not sell the Implants inventory that we sold to them in 2011 
                      since we were delayed in sending them the instrument sets that they needed to sell 
                      the Implants).  This one-year delay was caused by [ANVISA] who required us to 
                      send new instruments (as opposed to our original plan to move used instruments). 

           44. The Corporate Controller further noted in the email that – based on discussions he had 
              with the Spine CFO – the Brazilian Distributor planned to make a $4 million payment in 
              December 2012 that would significantly reduce the 360+ day bucket in the year-end 
              aging presentation.  

           45. Unbeknownst to the Corporate Controller and the Spine CFO, however – and as another 
              example of Orthofix’s inadequate internal accounting controls surrounding distributor 
              revenue recognition – the Brazilian Distributor had already informed the Spine President 
              and Spine Sales VP that it would only pay $1.6 million in December 2012 and another 
              $2.6 million in February 2013 because the 105 instrument sets had not been delivered in 
              full in April 2012. 

           46. Through this email, the Corporate CFO was on notice that Orthofix had a significant 
              outstanding receivable associated with implants for which there had been an at least one 
              year delay in sending the corresponding instrument sets.   

           47. The Corporate CFO, however, did not take steps to investigate the circumstances of the 
              original transaction and to determine whether the revenue associated with the original 
              transaction had been properly recognized.  As noted earlier, Orthofix improperly 
              recognized $5 million of revenue because the implants could not be used in patients 
              without the instruments.  As such, payment timing and terms were contingent upon the 
              instrument sets being made available and, therefore, revenue recognition was inconsistent 
              with Orthofix’s accounting because it did not meet the fixed or determinable criteria or 
              the collectability criteria. 

           48. Orthofix had inadequate internal accounting controls to evaluate the impact of these facts 
              on the revenue that was previously recognized on this transaction.  In particular, Orthofix 
              did not establish and maintain procedures to reasonably ensure an assessment by the 
              Company’s finance and accounting department of deviations from contractually 
              established terms. 

                  d.  Orthofix Improperly Recognized Even More Revenue with the Brazilian 
                      Distributor in Fall 2012 
               

                                                       9 
 

 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

        

           49. In the fall of 2012, Orthofix improperly recognized even more revenue with the Brazilian 
               Distributor.  By the fall of 2012, the Spine President had left the company and was 
               replaced in that role by the Corporate CFO (hereinafter “New Spine President/Prior 
               Corporate CFO”).  3   

           50. Beginning in September 2012, the Spine Sales VP solicited the Brazilian Distributor to 
               purchase approximately $1.5 million of Orthofix implants that had not yet been approved 
               by ANVISA.  Thus – as with the summer 2012 sales transaction with the Brazilian 
               Distributor – this product could not be shipped into Brazil until that approval occurred. 

           51. The Brazilian Distributor indicated that it would agree to the purchase but only under the 
               following two conditions: (i) the ability to renegotiate the payment terms if ANVISA 
               approval did not occur by the end of 2012 (just three months away) and (ii) one year to 
               pay for the product.  Neither Orthofix nor the Brazilian Distributor knew when ANVISA 
               would grant approval. 

           52. Despite the conditions noted above, Orthofix recognized the revenue from this 
               transaction immediately upon shipping the implants to the Brazilian Distributor’s 
               warehouse located in the United States.  In particular, Orthofix’s recognition of revenue 
               in this regard was improper because the Brazilian Distributor’s obligation to pay, and the 
               payment terms themselves, were contingent upon ANVISA approval and, therefore, 
               revenue recognition was inconsistent with Orthofix’s accounting policy because it did not 
               meet the fixed or determinable criteria or the collectability criteria. 

           53. This improper recognition of revenue – in combination with the improper recognition of 
               revenue for other transactions in FY 2012 described previously and later – caused 
               Orthofix’s financial results in its FY 2012 Form 10-K (and corresponding earnings 
               release) to be materially misstated. 

                  e.  The Brazilian Distributor’s President Described Transactions to Spine CFO and 
                      Spine Sales VP 

           54. As discussed previously, in March 2012, the Spine President and Spine Sales VP 
               discussed a payment plan proposal such that the Brazilian Distributor would pay 
               approximately $4.2 million of its amounts owed by the end of 2012.  The Brazilian 
               Distributor responded that it would only agree to this payment if all of the 105 instrument 
               sets were delivered by the end of April 2012.  When these instrument sets were not 
               delivered by April 2012, the Brazilian Distributor informed the Spine President and Spine 
               Sales VP in June 2012 that it would only pay $1.6 million in December 2012 and $2.6 
               million in February 2013.   

                                                        

       3       The then-CFO of Orthofix’s Orthopedics Segment replaced the New Spine President/Prior Corporate CFO 
       as the Corporate CFO. 

                                                       10 
 

 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

        

           55. On December 1, 2012, the Spine Sales VP emailed the Brazilian Distributor’s President 
              and wrote “I believe you have been speaking with [the Spine CFO] about the end of the 
              year payment of $4 million.  They are all extremely anxious about this.  This has to 
              happen as agreed.”   

           56. The Brazilian Distributor’s President replied “No [the Spine CFO] did not communicate 
              with me, certainly because it is quite clear this was agreed with [the Spine President].  
              We will pay $1.6 million in December.” 

           57. The Spine Sales VP forwarded this email to the Spine CFO, writing “this is a disaster,” 
              despite the fact that the Spine Sales VP had been informed in June 2012 that the Brazilian 
              Distributor would only pay $1.6 million in December 2012.  The Spine CFO then 
              forwarded the above email to the New Spine President/Prior Corporate CFO and wrote: 

                  [The Brazilian Distributor’s President] says below they made a payment agreement 
                  with [the Spine President] . . .I have no idea what may have been promised.  I do 
                  know that I fought pricing and terms concessions, but those were ultimately given at 
                  some point despite my denials.  This was commonplace.  I was told that I was the 
                  decision maker on pricing and terms and then secretly overridden.  [The Spine Sales 
                  VP] did it all of the time – don’t know how much [the Spine President] was involved. 

           58. On December 7, 2012, the Brazilian Distributor’s President travelled to the U.S. to meet 
              with the Spine CFO and Spine Sales VP.  At that meeting, the Brazilian Distributor’s 
              President provided a Power Point presentation to the Spine CFO and Spine Sales VP with 
              a detailed chronology of events on each of the sales transactions described previously, 
              including the implant-without-instruments transactions, the June and September 2012 
              transactions, and the payment plan related issues. 

           59. The Spine CFO subsequently forwarded the Power Point presentation to the New Spine 
              President/Prior Corporate CFO.  The Spine CFO did not forward this Power Point 
              presentation to the company’s then Corporate CFO and did not reassess the revenue that 
              the company had previously recognized and disclosed in its financial statements.  

           60. The New Spine President/Prior Corporate CFO failed to confirm that this Power Point 
              presentation had been brought to the attention of the then Corporate CFO and did not 
              separately confirm that the transactions outlined in the Power Point presentation had been 
              separately discussed with the Corporate CFO.  Moreover, the New Spine President/Prior 
              Corporate CFO failed to evaluate the impact that the information contained in the Power 
              Point had on the revenue that the company had previously recognized and disclosed in its 
              financial statements when he served as the company’s Corporate CFO.   

           61. Ultimately, Orthofix filed its FY 2012 Form 10-K in March 2013 and took no steps to 
              correct the revenue that it had previously improperly recognized on the implants-without 
              instruments, Firebird, and September 2012 transactions with the Brazilian Distributor.  
              Moreover, Orthofix did not adequately assess the collectability of the significant 
              receivables it had with the Brazilian Distributor.   

                                                      11 
 

 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

        

           62. As a result of this and other errors described below, Orthofix materially misstated its 
               financial results in its FY 2012 Form 10-K and corresponding earnings release. 

           E.  Orthofix Improperly Recognized Revenue with Other Spine International Distributors 
                       
                  a.  Introduction 
                       
           63. In addition to the Brazilian Distributor, OSI had relationships with other international 
               distributors including in Italy, Spain, and Mexico.  In total, these four international 
               distributors accounted for over 70% of OSI’s revenue and almost 4% of Orthofix’s 
               consolidated revenue in FY 2011 and 2012.   

           64. Orthofix improperly recognized revenue with each of these distributors and did not have 
               adequate internal accounting controls to provide reasonable assurance that transactions 
               with these distributors were recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of financial 
               statements in conformity with GAAP.   

                  b.  Italy 
                       
           65. On October 22, 2011, the Spine President emailed the Company CEO, Corporate CFO, 
               Spine CFO, and Spine Sales VP concerning the need for OSI to meet its fourth quarter 
               fiscal year 2011 forecast of $6 million in revenue.  The Spine President wrote “if we fail 
               at this endeavor then the company will be at risk and next year will be Hell on Earth for 
               all of us.” 

           66. In early December 2011 – in an attempt to meet Spine’s internal sales targets for the 
               fourth quarter of FY 2011 – the Spine Sales VP emailed the Italian Distributor and 
               solicited it to make a $400,000 order.  The Italian Distributor’s President responded that 
               it could make the order if they had extended payment terms of 180 days and the ability 
               “in case of cash difficulties” to extend those payment terms.  Moreover, the Italian 
               Distributor’s President noted that “it is a very bad moment for Italy.” 

           67. The Spine CFO was copied on these email exchanges and, despite the specifically 
               identified financial difficulties in Italy, Orthofix recorded the revenue upon shipment of 
               the products.  This revenue recognition upon shipment was improper because payment 
               terms were contingent upon timing of the Italian Distributor’s sell-through and payment 
               receipt of the products and, therefore, revenue recognition was inconsistent with 
               Orthofix’s accounting policy because it did not meet the fixed or determinable criteria or 
               the collectability criteria. 

                  c.  Spain 

           68. In early December 2011, the Spine Sales VP, by email, solicited the Spanish Distributor 
               to make a $300,000 order.  The Spanish Distributor noted the difficult conditions in the 
               Spanish economy at the time.  The Spine Sales VP responded that “based on the expected 
               challenges in Europe due to the instability of the financial institutions,” he could offer 
               extended payment terms of 180 days for instruments and 150 days for implants.   

                                                       12 
 

 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

        

           69. In late December 2011, the Spine Sales VP forwarded this email exchange to the Spine 
               CFO for his approval of the extended payment terms.  The Spine CFO provided his 
               approval. Orthofix recognized the revenue from this transaction upon shipment of the 
               products and this was improper because it did not meet the fixed or determinable criteria. 

           70. In July 2012, the Spine Sales VP, without getting the approval of the Spine CFO, 
               solicited the Spanish Distributor to place an $810,000 order in which he offered the 
               Distributor certain concessions, which he characterized as the “deal of the century.”  The 
               concessions included extended payment terms on the order and the right to return 
               $250,000 of excess distributor inventory that resulted from the order.  Orthofix’s 
               recognition of revenue from this transaction upon shipment of the products was improper 
               because payment terms and timing were contingent upon certain extra-contractual 
               concessions and, therefore, revenue recognition was inconsistent with Orthofix’s 
               accounting policy because it did not meet the fixed or determinable criteria or the 
               collectability criteria. 

                  d.  Mexico 

           71. In September 2012, the Spine Sales VP, without getting the approval of the Spine CFO, 
               solicited the Mexican Distributor to place a $300,000 order in which he offered the 
               Distributor a number of concessions.  The concessions included extended payment terms 
               on the order, and expansion of sales territory and reduction in sales quotas for the next 
               year.  Orthofix’s recognition of revenue from this transaction upon shipment of the 
               products was improper because payment terms and timing were contingent upon certain 
               extra contractual concessions and, therefore, revenue recognition was inconsistent with 
               Orthofix’s accounting policy because it did not meet the fixed or determinable criteria or 
               the collectability criteria. 

           F.  Orthofix  Improperly Accounted for Spinal Stimulation Product Transactions 

           72. Orthofix’s revenue recognition issues were not just limited to transactions with certain of 
               its international distributors for spinal products.  Orthofix also improperly accounted for 
               certain domestic distributor transactions in Spine involving spine stimulation products. 

           73. Beginning in the first quarter of FY 2012, the Spine President began exploring 
               opportunities to generate more revenue in the domestic spine market by selling spine 
               stimulation products to wholesale distributors.  Prior to this time, Orthofix sold these 
               products directly to patients, doctors and hospitals.  The Spine President began exploring 
               selling these products directly to wholesale distributors who would then resell them to 
               doctors and hospitals. 

           74. At this time, the wholesale market for these products was dominated by an Orthofix 
               competitor.  To draw market share away from this competitor, the Spine President and 
               Spine CFO determined that they would need to sell Orthofix spinal stimulation products 
               at deeply discounted prices. 

                                                       13 
 

 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

        

           75. Accordingly, the Spine President and Spine CFO decided they would offer the 
              wholesalers products at deeply discounted prices-per-unit.  Moreover, Orthofix paid a 
              referral fee to the wholesaler that was termed as a “commission.”  

           76. For example, if Orthofix agreed to sell 100 units for $1,500 per unit, or $150,000, 
              Orthofix also agreed to pay the wholesaler a commission of 25%, or $37,500, which 
              essentially reduced the amount being paid for the product to $112,500 ($150,000 less 
              $37,500). 

           77. Orthofix improperly treated these commissions as expenses rather than as reductions to 
              revenue.  Orthofix’s accounting treatment was improper because where the vendor does 
              not receive an identifiable benefit for the commissions, sales discounts such as these are 
              presumed to be a reduction in the seller’s price pursuant to ASC 605-50-45-2.  Thus, 
              these commissions should have been treated as further price discounts and as a reduction 
              in revenue. 

           78. Due to this improper accounting, Orthofix overstated its revenue by approximately $1.7 
              million in FY 2012, with the overwhelming majority of this amount (approximately $1.4 
              million) being overstated in the third quarter of FY 2012. 

           79. Moreover, Orthofix improperly recognized revenue upon shipment on two of the spinal 
              stimulation transactions in which the purchaser was granted a right to exchange the 
              products for cervical stimulation products.   

           80. In particular – because Orthofix could not and did not reasonably estimate the revenue 
              recognition impact of the amount of future returns – Orthofix was precluded from 
              recognizing revenue upon shipment in the above transactions pursuant to ASC 605-15-
              25-1(f). 

           81. As a result, Orthofix overstated its revenue by over $650,000 in FY 2012, with all of this 
              revenue being improperly recognized in the third quarter of FY 2012. 

           G.  Orthofix Engaged in Improper Accounting at its Orthopedics Brazilian Subsidiary 

           82. As noted earlier, Orthofix had two primary business segments during the relevant period 
              – Spine and Orthopedics.  Within Orthopedics, Orthofix had a Brazilian subsidiary 
              known as Orthofix do Brazil.  During the relevant period, the Orthofix do Brazil 
              subsidiary had inadequate internal accounting controls surrounding revenue recognition 
              and, as a result, improperly recognized revenue associated with certain distributor 
              transactions upon shipment. 

           83. In particular, Orthofix do Brazil used side agreements that included extended payment 
              terms and other concessions, and therefore, did not meet the revenue recognition 
              requirements upon shipment of the product. 

           84. Moreover, Orthofix do Brazil improperly recognized revenue upon shipment in at least 
              FY 2011 and FY 2012 as a result of providing distributors with rights to both exchange 
              and return products.   
                                                      14 
 

 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

        

           H.  Orthofix Improperly Calculated its Excess and Obsolete Reserve for Certain of Its 
               Inventory 

           85. During the relevant period, Orthofix calculated an excess and obsolete (E&O) reserve for 
               its inventory.  In essence, the E&O calculation serves as an estimated reserve against 
               inventory based on – among other things – assumptions related to the marketability or 
               saleability of inventory on hand.     

           86. During the relevant period, Orthofix improperly calculated or accounted for its E&O 
               reserve in two respects.  First – in the third quarter of FY 2011 – Orthofix launched a new 
               product called FORZA.  Orthofix experienced issues with FORZA’s launch and therefore 
               took an E&O reserve totaling approximately $1.2 million in the second quarter of fiscal 
               year 2012. 

           87. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012, a new E&O calculation policy was implemented 
               at Spine to conform the E&O calculation performed at another Orthofix segment since at 
               least 2007.   

           88. The updated E&O policy, among other things, provided that an E&O reserve would not 
               be taken in the first four years of a product’s launch.  Applying that policy, in the fourth 
               quarter of FY 2012 the Spine CFO reversed the reserve originally booked in the second 
               quarter of FY 2012 (which resulted in a $1.2 million gross margin increase in the fourth 
               quarter of FY 2012). 

           89. On restatement, however, Orthofix concluded that the FORZA E&O reserve should not 
               have been reversed due to the fact that issues with FORZA’s launch had indeed impacted 
               demand. 

           90. Second, in connection with the company’s restatement process and based on a previously 
               known design deficiency in the company’s controls over the computation and recording 
               of its E&O reserve, Orthofix reviewed the broader methodology it used to compute and 
               record its inventory reserve.  Based on this review, Orthofix determined that it had 
               improperly made reductions to previously recorded reserves based on changes in 
               forecasted demand in contravention of ASC 330.   4 

           91. As a result of its improper reserve accounting for this broader issue and the FORZA issue 
               noted above, Orthofix understated its E&O reserve by $3.4 million and $5.6 million in 
               FY 2011 and 2012, respectively. 

           I.  Orthofix’s Restatement 

                                                        

       4       ASC Topic 330, Inventory (specifically ASC 330-10-35-14) states that a write-down below cost at the 
       close of a fiscal year creates a new cost basis.  

                                                       15 
 

 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

        

           92. In late March 2014, Orthofix restated its financial statements for the first quarter of fiscal 
               year 2013, all quarterly and annual periods in fiscal years 2012 and 2011, and the annual 
               period for fiscal year 2010.  

           93. As a result of certain improper distributor revenue recognition practices, Orthofix 
               announced that it had overstated – for example – fiscal year 2011 net sales by 
               approximately 6% and operating income by over 430%.  Moreover, in the restatement, 
               Orthofix acknowledged certain material weaknesses in its internal control over financial 
               reporting.  

                                                VIOLATIONS 

           94. Securities Act Section 17(a)(2) prohibits any person from obtaining money or property in 
               the offer or sale of securities by means of any untrue statement of a material fact or any 
               omission to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in light 
               of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. 

           95. Securities Act Section 17(a)(3) prohibits any person from engaging in any transaction, 
               practice, or course of business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon 
               the purchaser in the offer or sale of securities. 

           96. Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to file such periodic and other reports 
               as the Commission may prescribe and in conformity with such rules as the Commission 
               may promulgate.  Exchange Act Rules 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 require the filing of 
               annual, current, and quarterly reports, respectively.  In addition to the information 
               expressly required to be included in such reports, Rule 12b-20 of the Exchange Act 
               requires issuers to add such further material information, if any, as may be necessary to 
               make the required statements, in the light of the circumstances under which they are 
               made not misleading.  “The reporting provisions of the Exchange Act are clear and 
               unequivocal, and they are satisfied only by the filing of complete, accurate, and timely 
               reports.”  SEC v. Savoy Industries, 587 F.2d 1149, 1165 (D.C. Cir. 1978) (citing SEC v. 
               IMC Int’1, Inc., 384 F. Supp. 889, 893 (N.D. Tex. 1974)).  A violation of the reporting 
               provisions is established if a report is shown to contain materially false or misleading 
               information.  SEC v. Kalvex, Inc., 425 F. Supp. 310, 316 (S.D.N.Y. 1975). 

           97. Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to “make and keep books, 
               records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
               transactions and dispositions of the assets of the issuer.”  Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the 
               Exchange Act requires issuers to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting 
               controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as 
               necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally 
               accepted accounting principles. 

           98. As a result of the conduct described above, Orthofix violated Securities Act Sections 
               17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) and Exchange Act Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) and 
               Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13. 

                                                       16 
 

 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

        

                              COOPERATION AND REMEDIAL ACTION 

              In determining to accept Respondent’s Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts 
           undertaken by Orthofix, including its enhancement of internal controls, the restructuring and 
           strengthening of the Company’s accounting and finance group (which includes retention of 
           additional accounting personnel), and Orthofix’s cooperation with the staff’s investigation. 

                                                     IV. 

              In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
       agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 

              Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 

              A.     Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and Section 21C of the Exchange 
       Act, Respondent cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future 
       violations of Securities Act Section 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3), and Exchange Act Sections  13(a), 
       13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B) and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder. 

              B.     Respondent shall, within 30 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money 
       penalty in the amount of $8,250,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  If timely 
       payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717.  Payment 
       must be made in one of the following three ways: 

                      (1) Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                                                                                              5
                         will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request  ; 

                      (2) Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                         through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofin.htm; or 

                      (3) Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                         States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                         Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to: 

                      Enterprise Services Center 
                      Accounts Receivable Branch 
                      HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                      6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                      Oklahoma City, OK 73169 

              Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
       Orthofix as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy 

                                                        

       5
              The minimum threshold for transmission of payment electronically is $1,000,000.  For amounts below the 
       threshold, respondents must make payments pursuant to option (2) or (3) above. 

                                                      17 
 

 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

        

       of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Antonia Chion, Division of 
       Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-
       5720. 

               C.     Pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, a Fair 
       Fund is created for the penalties referenced in paragraph IV.B above.  This Fair Fund may receive 
       the funds from and/or be combined with fair funds established for civil penalties paid by other 
       respondents for conduct arising in relation to the violative conduct at issue in this Orthofix 
       proceeding, in order for the combined fair funds to be distributed to harmed investors affected by 
       the violative conduct.  Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order 
       shall be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  
       To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related 
       Investor Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction 
       of any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a 
       civil penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”).  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants 
       such a Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order 
       granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of 
       the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be 
       deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil 
       penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” 
       means a private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more 
       investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the 
       Commission in this proceeding.  

               By the Commission. 

                                                            

                                                           Brent J. Fields 
                                                           Secretary 
        

                                                       18 
 

 
