---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                                UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                              Before the 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 10368 / June 1, 2017 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 80839 / June 1, 2017 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3872 / June 1, 2017 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-18005  
 
                                                       
                                                      ORDER INSTITUTING   
                                                      ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
In the Matter of                                      PURSUANT TO  RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                      COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
        David R. Humphrey , CPA                                                 
                                                                                       
Respondent.                                            
 
 
 
 
                                                   I. 
 
        The Securities and Exchange Commission  (“Commission”)  deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest  that public  administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted  against David 
R. Humphrey (“Respondent” or “Humphrey”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
                  1
Rules of Practice.  

                                               
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
         
        The Commission,  with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary     hearing, 
may by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined  by any court of competent jurisdiction,  by reason of his or 
her misconduct in an action brought by the Co   mmission,  from violating  or aiding  and abetting the 
violation  of any provision  of the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
                                                    
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                  
                                                II. 
 
       In anticipation  of the institution  of these proceedings,  Respondent has submitted  an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission  has determined to accept.  Solely  for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission,  or to which the Commission  is a party, Respondent admits the Commission's 
jurisdiction  over him  and the subject matter of these proceedings,  and the findings  contained in 
paragraph III. 2 below and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting  Public Administrative 
Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's  Rules of Practice, Making  Findings, 
and Imposing  Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.  
 
                                               III. 
 
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
       1.      Humphrey,  age 60, previously  held a license as a Certified Public Accountant in 
Colorado,  which expired on May 31, 2000.  He has not had an active license since that time.   
        
       2.      On May 23, 2017, a final judgment was entered by consent against Humphrey, 
permanently enjoining  him from future violations  of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 
and Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder  in the civil 
action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission  v. David R. Humphrey, Civil  Action Number 
17:CV:850,  in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia.   The Court ordered 
Humphrey to pay $56,591 in disgorgement and prejudgment interest and a $51,917 civil  money 
penalty. 
 
       3.      The Commission’s complaint  alleged that Humphrey, a former Commission 
employee, ignored the ethics rules and engaged in a multi-year scheme to trade in options and 
other prohibited  securities on his own behalf and on behalf of his mother and a childhood  friend 
(“Friend”).  During this time, Humphrey took affirmative steps to conceal his trading from the 
Ethics Office and others.  Significantly,  he never sought pre-clearance from the Ethics Office for 
these trades and he filed forms with the Ethics Office that falsely represented his securities 
holdings.   He also made misleading  representations on forms filed  with broker-dealers and he 
failed to disclose to his Friend that this trading violated government ethics rules and would result in 
his submitting  false annual certifications of his trading activity to the Commission.   When 
confronted by agents of the Commission’s  Office of Inspector General in 2014, Humphrey falsely 
denied that he had traded in options or in his mother’s brokerage account while employed at the 
Commission. 
        

                                                 2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                IV. 
                                                  
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission  deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Humphrey’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly,  it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately,  that: 
 
       A.     David R. Humphrey is suspended from appearing or practicing before the 
 Commission  as an accountant.  
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
                                                     Brent J. Fields 
                                                     Secretary 
 

                                                 3  
