---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                         
                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 10302 / February 3, 2017 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 79971 / February 3, 2017 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3858 / February 3, 2017 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17825 

                                            ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE -AND-
In the Matter of                            DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
                                            SECTION  8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT 
      IXIA AND                              OF 1933 AND SECTION 21C OF THE 
      VICTOR ALSTON ,                       SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, 
                                            MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
Respondent s.                               REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASE -
                                            AND-DESIST ORDER   
                                             
       
                                           I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act 
of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 
Act”) against Victor Alston (“Alston”) and pursuant to Exchange Act Section 21C against Ixia, a 
California corporation (“Ixia”) (collectively, “Respondents”). 
                                             
                                           II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (“Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose 
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are 
admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings 
Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
 

                                                 III. 
 
                                                                                    1
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds       that:  
 
                                            SUMMARY 
 
       1.      This matter principally involves material misrepresentations and omissions 
concerning the internal controls of Ixia, a developer and seller of network testing products, 
resulting from a directive by Victor Alston, Ixia’s former chief executive officer and president, to 
improperly accelerate the recognition of revenue in contravention of not only those controls but 
also well-established accounting rules and principles.  This directive resulted in Alston’s fraudulent 
misrepresentations, omissions, and certifications concerning Ixia’s internal controls, namely 
Internal Control over Financial Reporting (“ICFR”), as well as concerning Ixia’s compliance with 
those accounting rules and principles in Ixia’s filings with the Commission in 2012.  In addition, 
Alston’s misconduct resulted in misleading representations and omissions to Ixia’s auditors, 
circumvention of internal accounting controls, and falsification of books and records. 

       2.      In October 2012, Alston, in coordination with others at Ixia, directed Ixia to “Split 
POs” (or “Splitting POs”) in an effort to improperly accelerate the recognition of revenue.  Ixia 
typically packaged and sold multiple products to its customers.  In instances when Ixia sold its 
software and professional services, such as training, together, Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles (“GAAP”), notably software revenue recognition accounting rules, required that the 
company defer revenue from both its software and professional services until its professional 
services were delivered to its customer.  GAAP required the deferral of revenue because Ixia had 
not established fair value for professional services.  Alston ordered that Ixia Split POs – artificially 
break apart these services onto separate purchase orders in instances where professional services 
were included in any sale – which gave the false appearance that these professional services sales 
were stand-alone sales.  Splitting POs was designed to accomplish two improper goals.  First, the 
practice allowed Ixia to immediately, but improperly, recognize revenue from its software sales.  
Second, Ixia intended to improperly use the now-separated professional services to establish fair 
value in order to prevent the deferral of revenue in future sales that included both software and 
those services. 

                                

                                                 
1
  The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not binding on any other 
 person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
 
 

                                                  2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
                                        RESPONDENTS 
 
       3.      Ixia is a California corporation based in Calabasas, California that develops and 
sells network testing, visibility and security products. Ixia’s securities trade on the NASDAQ 
Global Select Market and are registered pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12(b). 

       4.      Victor Alston, age 39, joined Ixia as its vice president of applications at or around 
2004 and served in sequentially higher positions until his elevation to chief executive officer and 
president at or around May 2012.  Alston resigned from Ixia in October 2013 following certain 
findings from an internal investigation conducted by Ixia into whether Alston had misrepresented 
his educational and professional experience prior to joining Ixia. 

       5.      The matters addressed in this Order first came to light as a result of an investigation 
that the Audit Committee of Ixia’s Board of Directors (the “Audit Committee”) conducted into 
Ixia’s financial statements following Alston’s departure.  Ixia informed the Commission staff of 
this investigation at its outset, and as a result of this investigation restated its first and second 
quarter 2013 financial statements, including to correct errors in the recognition of revenue caused 
by Split POs, and made remedial efforts to address internal controls weaknesses.  Ixia also 
cooperated with the Commission staff in the staff’s investigation.  

                                        BACKGROUND 

       Ixia’s Revenue Recognition for Its Key Products and Services  
 
       6.      Like many of its peers in the software and hardware industry, Ixia was bound by 
accounting rules that required, in some circumstances, a significant deferral of revenue from its 
sales.   

       7.      This deferral of revenue was a result of the required accounting for most of Ixia’s 
sales.  Ixia’s primary product line is a combination of hardware and software designed to test, 
assess, and validate the performance of technology networks.  Ixia also sells post-contract support 
(“PCS”) – this line of products includes technical support and extended warranty and maintenance 
for Ixia’s hardware and software products.  Last, Ixia sells professional services, including 
providing customized software and product training in the use of Ixia’s hardware and software. 

       8.      Because Ixia typically sold a combination of its products to customers in a single 
transaction, those sales were known in accounting as “multi-element arrangements” that were 
subject to revenue recognition rules that required deferral of some or all of the revenue depending 
on the products included in the sale, and how they related to each other. 

       9.      Under GAAP, revenue from a multi-element arrangement involving software must 
be allocated to each element (e.g., the separate products sold in the combination sale) based on the 
fair value of each element (e.g., dollar value established through evidence of a consistent price paid 
by customers for the same or similar element), as measured by vendor-specific objective evidence 
of fair value (“VSOE”).  Thus, if VSOE does not exist for any of the elements of the transaction, 

                                                 3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
then any software revenue from the multi-element arrangement must be deferred until either the 
point in time when all elements have been delivered to the customer, or when VSOE does exist for 
each individual element, whichever is earlier. 

       10.    Consistent with this, Ixia’s internal revenue recognition policy provided that: 

               If evidence of fair value (or VSOE) cannot be established for an undelivered 
               element within the software group or software arrangement, we defer 
               revenue on the entire order until the earlier of (i) delivery of all elements or 
               (ii) establishment of VSOE of the undelivered element.  We have not been 
               able to establish VSOE for our Professional Services, therefore, if the only 
               undelivered element is Professional Services, the entire order or group is 
               recognized as revenue over the service term or when the service is 
               completed, depending on the arrangement.   

       11.    Given its significance to Ixia’s financial statements, Ixia’s 2012 Form 10-K 
explicitly referenced and incorporated this aspect of Ixia’s revenue recognition policy in the 
company’s disclosures to investors.  Within the Form 10-K’s discussion of its “Significant 
Accounting Policies,” the company represented that: 

               As our systems typically include hardware and software products, and the 
               related services, we recognize our revenue in accordance with 
               authoritative guidance on both hardware and software revenue 
               recognition. 
                                                   *** 
               If VSOE cannot be established for an undelivered element within the 
               software group (or arrangement), we defer the entire value allocated to the 
               software group (or arrangement) until the earlier of (i) delivery of all 
               elements (other than technical support, warranty and software maintenance 
               services, provided VSOE has been established) or (ii) establishment of 
               VSOE of the undelivered element(s). 

Alston signed Ixia’s 2012 Form 10-K in his capacity as Ixia’s chief executive officer. 

       12.    Crucially, Ixia had never established VSOE for any of its professional services. 

       13.    Accordingly, Alston knew that whenever Ixia sold a combination of software and 
professional services in a multi-element arrangement, Ixia could not recognize revenue from its 
sale of the software element until the professional services element of the transaction was fully 
delivered.   This requirement to defer software revenue was compelled by GAAP as well as Ixia’s 
stated revenue recognition policy.   

       14.    These accounting rules and the required deferral of revenue in certain 
circumstances subjected Ixia to considerable pressure at quarter or year end.  Much of Ixia’s sales 
occurred at or near the conclusion of reporting periods.  In many instances, Ixia was prohibited 
from recognizing all the revenue from those sales if professional services were included in the deal.  
                                                 4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 
Consequently, these accounting rules introduced a level of uncertainty even when sales and 
earnings targets appeared within reach.       

       Professional Services’ Impact on Ixia’s Revenue was Highlighted in the Third 
       Quarter 2012   

       15.    Events at the end of third quarter 2012 coalesced to place the impact of these 
accounting rules on Ixia’s revenue recognition in sharp focus.  On September 28, 2012, Ixia closed 
a significant, seven-figure sale to a large technology company.  The transaction was a multi-
element arrangement comprised of software, along with a nominal amount of hardware and 
professional services.  Although in the aggregate, the value of the deal was substantial, Ixia could 
not recognize any of the revenue from the software licensed in the transaction in third quarter 2012 
because the professional services sold to Ixia’s customer would not be delivered in the two days 
before quarter-end. 

       16.    Once briefed on the situation, Alston requested bi-weekly meetings to review status 
on delivery of professional services to ascertain the timing of revenue associated with those sales. 

       17.    Soon thereafter, certain Ixia employees learned that recognition of revenue from 
Ixia’s large transaction at the end of third quarter 2012 would be deferred even further because 
Ixia’s customer had decided that it wanted delivery of professional services to complete in 2013, 
rather than fourth quarter 2012. 

       18.    Faced with this, certain Ixia employees asked its customer to “split” its original 
purchase order into two purchase orders.  One purchase order would refer to software and already-
completed professional services.  The other purchase order would reference the uncompleted 
professional services previously negotiated and agreed to by the customer.  The terms of the 
original agreement were unchanged, with the only difference being the issuance of two purchase 
orders, rather than one, to document what was in substance a single multi-element arrangement.  
Ixia’s customer agreed to its request to submit new purchase orders.  On that fiction, Ixia 
prematurely recognized approximately $530,000 of software revenue in its financial statements 
including with its 2012 Form 10-K. 

       19.    This course of action circumvented Ixia’s internal accounting controls, which 
required that the documentation for orders reflect the details of all other orders or open negotiations 
for products that were discussed as part of the order.  Further, these controls also required any 
quote provided to a customer to reflect the entirety of the contemplated sales transaction.  Split POs 
circumvented these key controls.  

       Ixia Split POs to Improperly Accelerate Ixia’s Revenue 

       20.    The sale to the large technology company focused Alston and others on 
professional services’ impact on Ixia’s ability to immediately recognize revenue.  In approximately 
October 2012, Alston (along with others at Ixia) fundamentally changed the way Ixia did business 
by instructing his team to artificially separate all professional services from sales.   

                                                 5  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 
       21.    Ixia’s historic sales practice was to submit a single sales quote to a potential 
customer that typically reflected a combination of its products.  Now, Ixia would Split POs in 
instances when a sale included professional services.  Ixia would submit two quotes to that 
potential customer, one quote reflecting professional services and the other reflecting all of the 
other components of the sale.  Ixia then requested that its customer keep its purchase of 
professional services separate by submitting two separate purchase orders. 
 
After consulting and in coordination with others at Ixia, Alston sent an April 21, 2013 email to Ixia 
management that stated: 

               Team 

               Carrier deals that involve services need to be quoted with [professional 
               services] on a separate quote. 

               We cannot have [hardware/software] and Services quoted on the same 
               order.  That includes [professional services,] RE, or any other custom 
               work. 

               Ixia cannot deliver the quarter or meet revenue recognition any longer if 
               we continue to book orders in this manner … 

               Its [sic] not a business choice.  It’s a business reality … 

       22.    Splitting POs was designed to accomplish two important but prohibited goals.  
First, in sales that included both software and professional services, Ixia could recognize the 
revenue from software immediately because professional services had been excised from the sale.  
Second, Ixia purportedly planned to separately establish VSOE for professional services through 
Split POs by relying on artificially-separated professional services orders as evidence of fair value.  
And once that fabricated VSOE was established, Ixia would be in a position to avoid deferring 
revenue from multi-element arrangements involving both professional services and software in the 
future, whether or not it chose to continue Splitting POs.  But GAAP requires, among other 
criteria, that VSOE be established on the basis of truly independent sales, and professional services 
that are sold as part of a multi-element arrangement, do not constitute an independent sale.  
Accordingly, Ixia would be utilizing a false record of these sales to establish VSOE, in violation of 
GAAP.   
        
       23.    Split POs violated Ixia’s revenue recognition policy and circumvented Ixia’s 
internal accounting controls.  Split POs also created a trail of sales documentation, including sales 
quotes, purchase orders, and invoices that did not accurately reflect the true nature of the sale.  Ixia 
prematurely and improperly recognized revenue as a result. 

       24.    Some in Ixia’s accounting and finance department knew or recklessly disregarded 
that Splitting POs was likely resulting in Ixia’s premature recognition of revenue.  Although some 

                                                 6  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 
advised Alston against the practice, no one pushed back in any meaningful way on Alston’s desire 
to institutionalize the practice.    

       Split POs Resulted in Misrepresentations and Omissions in Ixia’s SEC Filings 

       25.    Alston’s directive to Split POs resulted in material misrepresentations and 
omissions in Ixia’s 2012 Form 10-K.  Specifically, Split POs rendered false and misleading Ixia’s 
and Alston’s representations concerning Ixia’s ICFR and Ixia’s representations of its compliance 
with GAAP, including the applicable software revenue recognition rules. 

       26.    Ixia is required to maintain ICFR pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(a).  
Pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f), Ixia’s ICFR is defined as: 

       [A] process designed by, or under the supervision of, the issuer’s principal 
       executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, 
       and effected by the issuer’s board of directors, management and other personnel, to 
       provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the 
       preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with  
       generally accepted accounting principles[.] 

       27.    Item 308 of Regulation S-K required Ixia’s management to provide a report on 
ICFR that contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s ICFR, and in 
that report, management must disclose any material weaknesses in the company’s ICFR identified 
by management.  Further, Item 308 of Regulation S-K prohibited Ixia’s management from 
concluding that its ICFR was effective if there were one or more material weaknesses in that ICFR. 
        
       28.    A “material weakness” in a company’s ICFR is a “deficiency, or a combination of 
deficiencies, in [ICFR] such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of 
the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely 
basis.”  17 C.F.R. 210.1-02(a)(4).  A misstatement is reasonably possible if the chance of a 
misstatement is more than remote but less than likely. 

       29.    Management’s report on the company’s ICFR is found in Item 9A of Ixia’s 2012 
Form 10-K.  That report, entitled “Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial 
Reporting,” stated: 

               As of December 31, 2012, our management (with the participation of our 
               Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer) conducted an 
               evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial 
               reporting based on the framework in Internal Control – Integrated 
               Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the 
               Treadway Commission (“COSO”).  Based on this evaluation, management 
               concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective 
               as of December 31, 2012 based on criteria in Internal Control – Integrated 
               Framework issued by the COSO.  

                                                7  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 
       30.    The report, however, set forth only two reasons that led to management’s 
conclusion that Ixia’s ICFR was not effective as of December 31, 2012.  Neither concerned Split 
POs.  Rather, management’s report only disclosed deficiencies arising from warranty and 
software maintenance revenue recognition.  Therefore, although management had concluded that 
Ixia’s ICFR was not effective, that assessment was on the basis of material weaknesses unrelated 
to the issues caused by Alston’s directive to Split POs.  

       31.    This undisclosed material weakness made management’s report on Ixia’s ICFR 
materially misleading.  Alston’s directive to Split POs, a practice designed to inappropriately and 
prematurely recognize revenue, resulted in the exploitation of that undisclosed material 
weakness.  As Ixia’s chief executive officer and president, Alston could not omit the existence of 
this material weakness while simultaneously exploiting that weakness.  Specifically, Ixia had no 
process in place to identify all software and professional services sales arising from a multi-
element arrangement once those POs were artificially split.  Since Ixia could no longer reliably 
identify its multi-element arrangements, it was now impossible for the company to comply with 
its revenue recognition policy – namely, the rules that policy set forth on how to recognize 
revenue from multi-element arrangements.  Alston knew or was reckless in not knowing that the 
foregoing representations were materially false and misleading.   

       32.    Alton’s directive to Split POs also violated Ixia’s revenue recognition policies and 
circumvented Ixia’s internal accounting controls requiring that the documentation for orders reflect 
the details of all other orders or open negotiations for products that were discussed as part of the 
order.   

       33.    Alston’s directive to Split POs caused Ixia to recognize revenue in contravention 
of Ixia’s revenue recognition policy and the applicable software revenue recognition rules 
explicitly referenced in Ixia’s 2012 Form 10-K’s “Significant Accounting Policies.”     

       34.    Alston knew or was reckless in not knowing that the foregoing representations 
were materially false and misleading. 

       Alston’s False SOX Certifications 

       35.    In accordance with SOX Section 302 and Exchange Act Rule 13a-14, Alston 
signed certifications which the company attached to its 2012 Form 10-K. 

       36.    Alston represented that: 

           -   He had disclosed all significant deficiencies in the company’s ICFR to the 
              company’s outside auditors and publicly disclosed all material weaknesses 
              in ICFR. 

           -   He had disclosed to the company’s outside auditors all fraud – whether or 
              not material – involving Ixia’s management or other employees with 
              significant roles in the company’s ICFR. 

                                                8  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

 
       37.    Alston’s certifications were materially false and misleading because:  he directed 
Split POs for all multi-element transactions involving professional services, Split POs exploited 
a material weakness in Ixia’s ICFR, violated Ixia’s revenue recognition policy, and circumvented 
internal accounting controls.  None of these facts were ever disclosed by Alston, or anyone else 
at the company, to Ixia’s outside auditors. 

       Alston Concealed Split POs from Ixia’s Auditors 

       38.    Alston submitted management representation letters to Ixia’s auditors during the 
2012 year-end audit and first and second quarter 2013 reviews that misrepresented or omitted 
material information relating to Split POs.  Specifically, Alston misrepresented or omitted 
material information related to Split POs, including that: 

           -   Ixia had identified and accounted for all multi-element arrangements in 
               accordance with GAAP. 

           -   Ixia had disclosed all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of 
               Ixia’s ICFR. 

           -   Alston had no knowledge of any fraud or suspected fraud at Ixia involving 
               either senior management, or employees with significant roles in Ixia’s 
               ICFR. 

           -   There were no material transactions or agreements that had not been 
               properly recorded. 

       39.    Alston knew or was reckless in not knowing that these representations were 
materially false and misleading. 

       Ixia’s Discovery of Alston’s False Resume Shed Light on Split POs  

       40.    Split POs came to light due to Ixia’s discovery of unrelated issues in the second half 
of 2013.  Ixia’s Audit Committee then decided to conduct an investigation due to his 
misrepresentations’ implications on the integrity of the Ixia’ Commission filings and incorporated 
financial statements.  Ixia informed the staff of these improprieties at the onset of the Audit 
Committee’s investigation. 

       41.    As a consequence of the Audit Committee’s investigation, Ixia restated its first and 
second quarter 2013 financial statements, in part to correct errors related to Split POs, disclosed  
among other things, material weaknesses in its ICFR, and made substantial remedial efforts to 
address internal controls weaknesses.  Alston resigned from Ixia in October 2013. 

                                         VIOLATIONS 

       42.    As a result of the conduct described above, Ixia violated Exchange Act Section 
13(a) and Rule 13a-1 thereunder, which require that every issuer of a security registered pursuant 

                                                9  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

 
to Exchange Act Section 12 file with the Commission, among other things, annual reports as the 
Commission may require, and, pursuant to Rule 13a-14, mandate, among other things, that an 
issuer’s principal executive and principal financial officers certify each periodic report. 

       43.    As a result of the conduct described above, Ixia violated Exchange Act Section 
13(b)(2)(A), which requires reporting companies to make and keep books, records and accounts 
which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their transactions and dispositions of their 
assets. 

       44.    As a result of the conduct described above, Ixia violated Exchange Act Section 
13(b)(2)(B), which requires all reporting companies to devise and maintain a system of internal 
accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as 
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. 

       45.    As a result of the conduct described above, Ixia violated Exchange Act Rule 12b-
20, which requires that, in addition to the information expressly required to be included in a 
statement or report filed with the Commission, there shall be added such further material 
information, if any, as may be necessary to make the required statements, in light of the 
circumstances under which they are made not misleading. 

       46.    As a result of the conduct described above, Alston violated Securities Act Section 
17(a)(3), Exchange Act Section 10(b) and Rule 10b-5(b) and (c) thereunder, which prohibit 
fraudulent conduct in the offer or sale of securities and in connection with the purchase or sale of 
securities. 

       47.    As a result of the conduct described above, Alston violated Exchange Act Section 
13(b)(5), which prohibits any person from knowingly circumventing or knowingly failing to 
implement a system of internal accounting controls or knowingly falsifying any book, record, or 
account described in Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2). 

       48.    As a result of the conduct described above, Alston violated Exchange Act Rule 
13b2-1, which prohibits any person from, directly or indirectly, falsifying or causing to be falsified, 
any book, record, or account subject to Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(A). 

       49.    As a result of the conduct described above, Alston violated Exchange Act Rule 
13b2-2, which prohibits any officer or director from directly or indirectly making or causing to be 
made a materially false or misleading statement to an accountant in connection with any audit, 
review, or examination of the financial statements of an issuer.  

       50.    As a result of the conduct described above, Alston violated Exchange Act Rule 13a-
14, which requires a principal executive and principal financial officer to certify each periodic 
report containing financial statements filed by an issuer in accordance with Exchange Act 13(a). 

       51.    As a result of the conduct described above, Alston caused Ixia’s violations of 
Exchange Act Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-1 
thereunder.   
                                                10   
---------------------Page 11---------------------

 
                               IXIA’S REMEDIAL EFFORTS 

       In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts promptly 
undertaken by Ixia and its cooperation afforded the Commission staff. 

                                              IV. 

                                      UNDERTAKINGS 

       In connection with this action and any related judicial or administrative proceeding or 
investigation commenced by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent 
Ixia (i) agrees to use its best efforts to cause its officers, employees, and directors to be 
interviewed by the Commission staff at such times and places as the staff requests upon 
reasonable notice; (ii) will accept service by mail or facsimile transmission of notices or 
subpoenas issued by the Commission for documents or testimony at depositions, hearings, or 
trials, or in connection with any related investigation by Commission staff; (iii) appoints its 
undersigned attorneys as agents to receive service of such notices and subpoenas; (iv) with 
respect to such notices and subpoenas, waives the territorial limits on service contained in Rule 
45 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and any applicable local rules, provided that the party 
requesting the interview or testimony reimburses the travel, lodging, and subsistence expenses at 
the then-prevailing U.S. Government per diem rates; and (v) consents to personal jurisdiction 
over it in any United States District Court for purposes of enforcing any such subpoena. 

       In connection with this action and any related judicial or administrative proceeding or 
investigation commenced by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent 
Alston (i) agrees to appear and be interviewed by Commission staff at such times and places as 
the staff requests upon reasonable notice; (ii) will accept service by mail or facsimile 
transmission of notices or subpoenas issued by the Commission for documents or testimony at 
depositions, hearings, or trials, or in connection with any related investigation by Commission 
staff; (iii) appoints his undersigned attorneys as agents to receive service of such notices and 
subpoenas; (iv) with respect to such notices and subpoenas, waives the territorial limits on 
service contained in Rule 45 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and any applicable local 
rules, provided that the party requesting the interview or testimony reimburses his travel, 
lodging, and subsistence expenses at the then-prevailing U.S. Government per diem rates; and 
(v) consents to personal jurisdiction over him in any United States District Court for purposes of 
enforcing any such subpoena. 

       In determining whether to accept Respondents’ Offers, the Commission has considered 
these undertakings. 

                                               V. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents Ixia’s and Alston’s Offers. 
 
                                               11   
---------------------Page 12---------------------

 
       Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and Section 21C of the Exchange 
Act, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.     Respondent Ixia cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Exchange Act Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B) and Rules 13a-1 and 
12b-20 thereunder. 

       B.     Respondent Ixia shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money 
penalty in the amount of $750,000.00 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to 
the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If 
timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717.   

       C.     Respondent Ixia acknowledges that the Commission is not imposing a civil penalty 
in excess of $750,000.00 based upon its cooperation in a Commission investigation and related 
enforcement action.  If at any time following the entry of the Order, the Division of Enforcement 
(“Division”) obtains information indicating that Respondent Ixia knowingly provided materially 
false or misleading information or materials to the Commission, or in a related proceeding, the 
Division may, at its sole discretion and with prior notice to the Respondent Ixia, petition the 
Commission to reopen this matter and seek an order directing that the Respondent Ixia pay an 
additional civil penalty.  Respondent Ixia may contest by way of defense in any resulting 
administrative proceeding whether it knowingly provided materially false or misleading 
information, but may not:  (1) contest the findings in the Order; or (2) assert any defense to liability 
or remedy, including, but not limited to, any statute of limitations defense. 

       D.     Respondent Alston cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
any future violations of Securities Act Section 17(a), Exchange Act Sections 10(b), 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B) and 13(b)(5), and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 13b2-1, 13b2-2, and 13a-
14 thereunder. 

       E.     Respondent Alston be, and hereby is, prohibited for five years from the date of this 
Order from acting as an officer or director of any issuer that has a class of securities registered 
pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act or that is required to file reports pursuant to Section 
15(d) of the Exchange Act, in accordance with Section 8A(f) of the Securities Act and Section 
21C(f) of the Exchange Act. 

       F.     Respondent Alston shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil 
money penalty in the amount of $100,000.00 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for 
transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 
21F(g)(3).  If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 
§3717. 

       G.     Payment must be made in one of the following ways:   
                
               (1)    Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, 
               which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  

                                                12   
---------------------Page 13---------------------

 
                
               (2)    Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
               through the Commission website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
                
               (3)    Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
               States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
               Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
                
               Enterprise Services Center 
               Accounts Receivable Branch 
               HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
               6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
               Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
        
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying Ixia 
or Alston as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy 
of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to John W. Berry, Division of 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 444 S. Flower Street, Suite 900, Los Angeles, 
CA  90071. 
        
       H.     Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be 
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To 
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that in any Related Investor 
Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or reduction of 
any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondents’ payment of a civil 
penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”).  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a 
Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that they shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order 
granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount of 
the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be 
deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil 
penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” 
means a private damages action brought against Respondents by or on behalf of one or more 
investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the 
Commission in this proceeding. 

       I.      Respondents shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in Section IV above. 

                                               VI. 
                
It is further Ordered that for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 523 of the 
Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by Respondent 
Alston, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other 
amounts due by Respondent Alston under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, 
decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the 

                                               13   
---------------------Page 14---------------------

 
violation by Respondent Alston of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued 
under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 
        

       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                      Brent J. Fields 
                                                      Secretary 

                                                 14   
