---------------------Page 1---------------------

                         UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                    Before the 
                  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 10221 / September 27, 2016 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 78944 / September 27, 2016  
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3806 / September 27, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17582  
 
                                         ORDER INSTIT UTING PUBLIC 
In the Matter of                         ADMINISTRATIVE AND  CEASE-AND-
                                         DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
WEATHERFORD                              SECTION 8A  OF THE SECURITIES ACT 
INTERNATIONAL PLC,                       OF 1933, SECTIONS 4C  AND 21C OF THE 
F/K/A WEATHERFORD                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,        
INTERNATIONAL LTD .,                        AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
JAMES HUDGINS, CPA,                    COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
AND DARRYL KITAY , CPA,                                                   
                                                                                
Respondent s.                                                  (“ORDER”) 
 
 
       
                                        I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act 
of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 
Act”) against Weatherford International plc, formerly known as Weatherford International Ltd. 
(“Weatherford”), James Hudgins, CPA (“Hudgins”), and Darryl Kitay, CPA (“Kitay”) 
(collectively “Respondents”); and that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, 
instituted pursuant to Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice against Hudgins and Kitay. 
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          
                                          
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) that the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order, as set 
forth below. 
 
                                               III. 
 
                                                                                 1
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds    that :  
 
                                          SUMMARY 
 
       1.      Between 2007 and 2012, Weatherford, a large multinational provider of oil and 
natural gas equipment and services, issued false financial statements that inflated its earnings by 
over $900 million in violation of U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”).  
Weatherford issued materially false and misleading statements about its net income, earnings per 
share (“EPS”), effective tax rate (“ETR”), and other key financial information.  Weatherford did 
not have sufficient internal accounting controls to identify and properly account for its 
accounting of income taxes throughout the relevant period. 
        
       2.      As a result, Weatherford was forced to restate its financial statements on three 
separate occasions over eighteen months.  The first restatement was made public on March 1, 2011 
when Weatherford announced that it would restate its financial results for 2007-2010 and that a 
material weakness existed in its internal control over financial reporting (“ICFR”) for the 
accounting of income taxes.  That restatement, filed on March 8, 2011, reduced previously 
reported net income by approximately $500 million (the “First Restatement”).  $461 million of 
the First Restatement resulted from a four-year income tax accounting fraud orchestrated by 
James Hudgins, the Vice President of Tax and later an officer of Weatherford, and Darryl Kitay, 
                                                                         
the tax manager and later senior tax manager who reported to Hudgins. Hudgins and Kitay made 
numerous post-closing adjustments or “plugs” to fill gaps to meet ETRs that Weatherford 
previously disclosed to analysts and the public.  This deceptive intercompany tax accounting 
improperly inflated Weatherford’s earnings and materially understated its ETR and tax expense.   
        
       3.      The fraud created the misperception that the tax structure Weatherford designed 
to reduce its tax expense and ETR was far more successful than it actually was.  From 2007 to 
2010, Weatherford regularly touted its favorable ETR to analysts and investors as one of its key 
competitive advantages, which it attributed to a superior international tax avoidance structure 
that Hudgins constructed at the urging of senior management.  The purportedly lower ETR rates 
Weatherford reported throughout this period proved illusory, as the First Restatement made 
                                                 
1
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   
                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

clear.  After announcing the First Restatement, Weatherford’s stock price declined nearly 11% in 
one trading day ($2.38 per share), closing at $21.14 per share on March 2, 2011.  The decline 
eliminated over $1.7 billion from Weatherford’s market capitalization.   
        
       4.      Weatherford announced additional restatements in February 2012 and July 2012 
(the “Second Restatement” and “Third Restatement,” respectively).  After the First Restatement, 
Weatherford attempted to remediate its material weakness in internal control over income tax 
accounting.  Throughout its remediation efforts in 2011, Weatherford filed its Forms 10-Q on a 
timely basis and falsely reassured investors that it was performing additional reconciliations and 
post-closing procedures to ensure that its financial statements were fairly presented in conformity 
with GAAP.  However, Weatherford, through Hudgins and Kitay, failed to review, assess and 
quantify known income tax accounting issues that had a high risk of causing additional material 
misstatement as early as July 2011.  When Weatherford filed its Second Restatement on March 15, 
2012, Weatherford reported a $256 million drop in net income from 2007-2011 as a result of 
additional errors in its income tax accounting and its material weakness in internal control over 
income tax accounting remained.  At least $84 million of that drop in net income resulted from an 
income tax accounting GAAP violation Respondents knew about, but failed to assess and quantify, 
before Weatherford filed its third quarter financial statements.   
        
       5.      Four months after filing the Second Restatement, Weatherford announced that it 
was withdrawing reliance on all previous financial statements because it had discovered additional 
income tax errors that reduced prior period net income by $107 million.  By the time Weatherford 
issued its Third Restatement on December 17, 2012, Weatherford had reduced net income from 
prior periods by an additional $186 million, largely driven by books and records and internal 
accounting controls issues identified and corrected during Weatherford’s remediation efforts in 
2012.  
        
       6.      As a result of the fraudulent income tax accounting, Weatherford accrued millions 
in improper benefits by using artificially inflated common stock to acquire numerous companies.  
Weatherford also raised over $5 billion from nine bond offerings during the relevant period.  
Hudgins used the artificially low ETRs and perceived successful tax avoidance strategies as, in 
part, a basis to justify becoming a long-desired officer of Weatherford in 2009, and to secure a 
large bonus in 2010. 
        
       7.      As a result of the conduct described herein, Weatherford violated the antifraud 
provisions of Exchange Act Section 10(b) and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and Securities Act Section 
17(a), the reporting provisions of Exchange Act Section 13(a) and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, 
and 13a-13 thereunder, the books and records provisions of Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(A), and 
the internal accounting control provisions of Section 13(b)(2)(B).  
        
       8.      As a result of the conduct described herein, Hudgins and Kitay violated the 
antifraud provisions of Securities Exchange Act Sections 10(b) and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and 
Securities Act Section 17(a) and caused Weatherford to violate Securities Act Section 17(a) and 
Exchange Act Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 
13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder.  Hudgins and Kitay also violated Exchange Act Section 13(b)(5) 

                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

and Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1 promulgated thereunder, and Hudgins violated Exchange Act Rule 
13b2-2.  In addition, both individuals violated the federal securities laws or rules and regulations 
thereunder pursuant to Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice.   
 
                                       RESPONDENTS 
        
       9.     Weatherford International plc f/k/a Weatherford International Ltd.  is a 
multinational Irish public limited company based in Switzerland, with U.S. offices in Houston, 
        
Texas. Weatherford’s  shares are registered with the Commission pursuant to Exchange Act 
Section 12(b) and are listed on the NYSE under the symbol “WFT.”  Weatherford files periodic 
reports, including Forms 10-K and 10-Q, with the Commission pursuant to Exchange Act Section 
13(a) and related rules thereunder.   
 
       10.    In November 2013, the Commission charged Weatherford with: (a) violating the 
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by authorizing bribes and improper travel and entertainment for 
foreign officials in the Middle East and Africa to win business; (b) falsifying its books and 
records to conceal these illicit payments and illegal transactions with countries subject to U.S. 
sanctions; and (c) failing to establish an effective system of internal accounting controls.  
Weatherford agreed to pay $252.6 million to settle the Commission’s charges and related actions 
by four other agencies.  As part of that settlement, Weatherford agreed to retain an independent 
compliance monitor for 18 months and to self-report to the SEC for an additional 18 months. 
        
       11.    James M. Hudgins, age 62, resides in Texas.  He served as Weatherford’s 
Director of Tax from January 1999 until mid-2000, when he became Vice President of Tax, and 
as an Officer from February 2009 until his resignation on March 31, 2012.  Hudgins was licensed 
as a CPA by the State of Texas from 1988 until 2012. 
 
       12.    Darryl S. Kitay, age 56, resides in Texas.  He served as Weatherford’s Tax 
Manager and Senior Manager from April 2004 until 2011, then as Weatherford’s Tax Director 
through January 2013.  Kitay reported to Hudgins from April 2004 until March 2012.  Kitay was 
licensed as a CPA by the State of Texas in 1992 and expired in  2004.  Weatherford relieved 
Kitay of all supervisory responsibilities associated with Weatherford’s income tax accounting in 
May 2012, after the filing of the Second Restatement.  Weatherford terminated Kitay’s 
employment in July 2013.  
        
                                    RELEVANT ENTITY 
         
       13.    Ernst & Young LLP (“Ernst & Young”) is a professional services limited liability 
partnership, headquartered in New York City, with offices located throughout the United States.  It 
is a member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited and provides auditing, consulting, and tax 
services to a variety of companies, including companies whose securities are registered with the 
Commission and trade in the U.S. markets.  Ernst & Young was Weatherford’s external auditor 
from 2001 to March 2013.  On March 7, 2013, Weatherford’s audit committee decided not to re-
appoint Ernst & Young. 
 
                                               4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                               FACTS 
 
                                            Background 
                                                    
       14.     From its inception through merger of two predecessor companies in 1998, 
Weatherford employed an aggressive strategy to become a top-tier multinational provider of oil 
and natural gas equipment and services.  One part of that strategy was based on exponential 
revenue growth fueled by hundreds of acquisitions designed to expand Weatherford’s 
multinational footprint.  During the decade before the First Restatement, Weatherford’s revenue 
increased from $1.8 billion to $10.2 billion.  Emails among Weatherford’s senior management 
reflected that Weatherford took pride in being an entrepreneurial high-growth organization that 
placed a premium on more growth and better earnings.  This growth came, often, at the expense of 
ensuring good governance and compliance.  During the relevant period, Weatherford failed to 
ensure that its internal controls over income tax accounting kept up with its growth.   
        
       15.     Another key component of that strategy was to develop a superior international 
tax avoidance structure that reduced Weatherford’s ETR and tax expense (and increased EPS and 
cash flow) while providing a competitive advantage over U.S.-based peer companies.  In 2002, 
Weatherford changed its place of incorporation from the U.S. to Bermuda, a 0% tax jurisdiction, 
                                        2
through a process known as inversion.        
        
       1 6 .   Weatherford further refined its international tax structure from 2003 through 2006 
by implementing a series of hybrid instruments to facilitate the movement o     f revenue from 
higher tax rate jurisdictions (i.e., Canada and United States) to lower tax rate jurisdictions (i.e., 
Hungary and Luxembourg).  Hybrid instruments are often used in international tax planning to 
achieve deductions in one, typically high tax rate, jurisdiction and shift income to another, typically 
low tax rate, jurisdiction.  Hybrid instruments are structured to incorporate features of both debt 
and equity, such that the instrument typically qualifies as debt in one jurisdiction and equity in 
another.  Payments on debt may be deducted in computing taxable income while the yields are 
accrued but not necessarily paid, and, therefore, not calculated as taxable income. 
        
       17.     Taken together, these tax avoidance strategies were designed largely to reduce 
Weatherford’s tax expense and ETR, while increasing EPS and cash flow.  As a result, these 
international tax avoidance strategies reduced Weatherford’s ETR from 36.3% in 2001 to 25.9% 
by the end of 2006. 
        
       18.     As the then-Vice President of Tax, Hudgins was the architect of Weatherford’s 
tax structure, tax planning, and was responsible for executing tax strategies designed to reduce 
Weatherford’s ETR and tax expense.  Hudgins was also responsible for ensuring that 

                                                 
2
       In 2009, Weatherford took steps to preserve the tax avoidance structure it created by changing its place of 
incorporation from Bermuda to Switzerland through a series of share exchange transactions commonly referred to as 
redomestication.  In 2014, Weatherford changed its place of incorporation from Switzerland to Ireland when, 
through merger agreement, Weatherford International plc, an Ireland-based public limited company, became the 
new public holding company/parent of Weatherford’s group of companies. 
 
                                                  5  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

Weatherford’s consolidated income tax accounts were properly maintained and that the 
consolidated tax provisions, underlying expenses, and related financial disclosures were 
accurately and fairly presented in all material respects in accordance with GAAP.  Kitay, who 
reported to Hudgins, was responsible for preparing and reviewing Weatherford’s consolidated 
income tax accounts and underlying expenses that were reported in Weatherford’s financial 
statements. 
        
       19.    From 2002 through October 2006, Hudgins reported to a Chief Financial Officer 
(“CFO”) who was a CPA with significant accounting experience.  In October 2006, after the 
departure of that CFO, the Vice President of Finance was appointed CFO.  The new CFO was 
trained as an attorney and had considerable mergers and acquisition experience.  However, the 
new CFO was not a CPA and had limited accounting knowledge and experience.   
        
       20.    To compensate for the CFO’s limited accounting knowledge and experience, 
Weatherford created the new position of Chief Accounting Officer (“CAO”) to supervise and 
take responsibility of Weatherford’s accounting.  Under this new arrangement, Weatherford’s tax 
department was considered more like a “finance” function focused on tax strategy and planning, 
not tax accounting.  Thus, beginning in October 2006, Hudgins and Weatherford’s tax 
department no longer reported directly to Weatherford’s accounting department or to senior 
management with sufficient knowledge or experience to assess whether Weatherford’s income 
tax accounting was being fairly and accurately presented in accordance with GAAP.  As a result, 
the tax department had virtually no accounting oversight. 
        
       21.    Achieving and sustaining a lower ETR was very important to Weatherford’s 
profitability strategy during the relevant period.  Weatherford senior management and Hudgins 
understood that Weatherford’s tax structure and resulting ETR added significant value and was 
material to analysts and investors alike.  Wall Street analysts closely followed Weatherford’s 
ETR and its effect on earnings.  Each percentage point in Weatherford’s ETR translated into 
$0.02 to $0.03 in EPS.  Weatherford’s senior management knew its tax department was 
perpetually understaffed and overworked during the years leading up to the First Restatement.  
Hudgins led a tax staff that was roughly the same size as when he was hired, Hudgins pressed his 
employees to work long hours to make Weatherford’s tax structure extremely competitive.  
Weatherford and Hudgins quickly gained a reputation with the company’s external auditor as a 
challenging and demanding client known for taking aggressive accounting positions, particularly 
in the area of income tax accounting.   
        
       22.    Although Weatherford reduced its ETR by nearly 10% from 2001 to the end of 
2006, its CFO remarked that Weatherford’s ETR remained somewhat above that of other 
inverted peer companies in his response to an analyst’s question during the year end earnings call 
on January 30, 2007.  Soon thereafter, Weatherford started reporting ETR results that created a 
false perception that its international tax structure was outperforming similarly-situated 
competitors by a significant margin.  For example, in 2008 and 2009, fueled by its deceptive 
income tax accounting practices, Weatherford reported pre-restatement ETRs of 17.1% and 
6.5%.   
                                                    

                                               6  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

               $461 Million Tax Accounting Fraud Leads to First Restatement 
 
       23.    In connection with fiscal years 2007 through 2010, Hudgins and Kitay engaged in 
fraudulent practices relating to income tax accounting that violated GAAP and made 
Weatherford’s financial statements materially false and misleading.  During each of those years, 
Weatherford repeatedly and publicly disclosed ETR estimates and recorded tax expense that 
Hudgins and Kitay knew, or were reckless in not knowing, were fabricated.  Each year, Hudgins 
and Kitay made or authorized unsupported post-closing adjustments to accounting data that 
intentionally lowered Weatherford’s actual ETR and tax expense.  To do so, they reversed 
accounting data that had been correctly input into Weatherford’s consolidated tax provision from 
the company’s accounting system, and did not notify Weatherford’s accounting department why 
they had made such adjustments.  They performed no work to support the adjustments, which 
were merely a “plug” to arrive at the lower estimated ETR and tax expense amounts.  Without 
disclosing how they arrived at their numbers, Hudgins and Kitay provided these amounts for 
inclusion in Weatherford’s consolidated financial statements, which senior management shared 
with analysts and investors repeatedly during earnings calls and public financial statements.  This 
conduct went undetected for over four fiscal years.  

       24.    Throughout 2007-2010, Hudgins and Kitay made these manual post-closing 
adjustments within a line item on the consolidated tax provision labeled intercompany “dividend 
           3
exclusion.”   These dividend exclusion adjustments, which ranged from $286 million to $439 
million per year, involved different Weatherford entities within Weatherford’s corporate 
elimination account, which was known as the “Eliminations region.”  These adjustments were 
then tax effected at 35%, which falsely lowered Weatherford’s year-end provision for income 
taxes by $100 million to $154 million each year.  These dividend exclusion adjustments also 
overstated net income, understated ETR and tax expense, and ultimately created a $461 million 
phantom income tax receivable. 

       25.    These adjustments were made to allow Weatherford’s reported ETR and earnings 
results to better align with analysts’ expectations and Weatherford’s previously-announced 
projected results.  Hudgins and Kitay did not tell anyone outside of Weatherford’s tax 
department the true reason they made these adjustments.  Kitay identified the existence of the 
adjustments to Ernst & Young each year, but, when questioned about them, Kitay made 
misleading and inconsistent responses to the auditors and failed to disclose the true reason for the 
adjustments.  Kitay sometimes asked Hudgins to review his responses before providing them to 
Ernst & Young.   

       26.    The errors were finally discovered in February 2011.  By that time, the phantom 
income tax receivable had increased to such dramatically disproportionate heights, over $460 
million, that it defied even the unsupported explanations of Hudgins and Kitay.  Shortly 
thereafter, Weatherford released the First Restatement in March 2011.          

                                                 

                                                 
3
       Dividend exclusion represents the amount of intercompany dividends that a corporation must exclude from 
its taxable income. 
                                               7  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

                  First Restatement - Dividend Exclusion Plug Adjustments 

                                        Fiscal Year 2007 

       27.     In December 2006, Weatherford, through Hudgins, initially forecasted an ETR of 
29% for fiscal year 2007.  However, emails among senior management reflected that the 
company was under pressure to meet Wall Street expectations and to offset shortfalls in its 
quarterly earnings targets by lowering its ETR.  By the time Weatherford announced its second 
quarter earnings results on July 23, 2007, the company informed analysts that ETR would “run 
between of 20 and 21% on average for the entire year.”  Weatherford reported similar ETR 
results in its financial statements and earnings releases for the third quarter of 2007, creating the 
perception that its tax avoidance strategies were finally beginning to outperform those of its 
competitors and yield long-term value to investors.   

       28.     Throughout the first three quarters of 2007, Weatherford recorded ETR and tax 
expense pursuant to FIN 18, “Accounting for Income Taxes in Interim Periods.”  FIN 18 
prescribes an estimated annualized ETR approach for computing the tax provisions for the first 
three quarters of the year, which is based on a company’s best estimate of current year ordinary 
income.  GAAP, however, does not allow companies to use FIN 18 to calculate their year-end tax 
provisions.     

       29.     To comply with GAAP, Weatherford was required to record ETR and tax expense 
                                                                  4
at year end pursuant to FAS 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes.”   FAS 109 establishes standards 
on how companies should account for and report the effects of income taxes, including the 
calculation of the year-end consolidated tax provision.  The tax data for every Weatherford entity 
was compiled in the field and in Houston.  Tax department personnel in Houston under Hudgins 
and Kitay’s supervision reviewed that information, after which the tax provisions for legal entities 
were finalized and then combined on a region-by-region basis.  The region-based tax provisions 
were then consolidated to arrive at a single tax provision from which current and deferred assets 
and liabilities, associated tax expense (or benefit), and ETR were calculated and recorded. 

       30.     Shortly before Weatherford was scheduled to release its year-end financial results 
for 2007, however, Hudgins and Kitay discovered the year-end ETR and tax expense that had 
been calculated pursuant to FAS 109 far exceeded the ETR estimates and tax expense 
disseminated publicly to analysts and investors during the first three quarters of 2007 based on 
their ETR estimates.  Faced with what they considered to be an immovable deadline for reporting 
earnings, Hudgins and Kitay falsified the year-end consolidated tax provision by making an 
unsubstantiated manual $439.7 million post-closing “plug” adjustment to two different 
Weatherford Luxembourg entities within Weatherford’s Eliminations region.  To do so, they 
intentionally reversed accounting data that had been correctly input to Weatherford’s 
consolidated tax provision via the company’s accounting system.     

                                                 
4
       Effective for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009, FASB codified authoritative 
accounting literature in the Accounting Standards Codification.  As such, FIN 18 and FAS 109 were superseded by 
ASC Topic 740.  The substantive provisions of the codified guidance are consistent with the superseded standards. 
                                                8  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

       31.    The resulting plug adjustment, which Hudgins and Kitay then improperly applied 
a 35% tax rate to, allowed Weatherford to reduce its tax expense by $153.9 million for the year 
and to lower its ETR in line with previous ETR estimates publicly disclosed during quarterly 
calls with analysts.   

       32.    Hudgins and Kitay took no steps to determine the necessity and accuracy of the 
plug adjustment, either before or after it was made.  They performed no work at any time to 
determine whether plugging the gap was appropriate under GAAP and made no attempt to 
substantiate the difference between the their publicly disclosed ETR estimates and tax expenses 
with the FAS 109 actual results that they were witnessing.  Both Hudgins and Kitay knew, or 
were reckless in not knowing, that they should have reviewed and substantiated the actual tax 
numbers after the close process, but they never did.  Hudgins and Kitay made no attempt to alert 
Weatherford’s accounting department, internal auditor, or senior management of the significant 
issues related to its FAS 109 actual ETR results.  Nor did they notify the company’s external 
auditor of any discrepancy.  And Weatherford, for its part, never questioned or reviewed the 
methods Hudgins and Kitay used to move Weatherford’s ETR downward from 29% to 20% over 
the span of one year.       

       33.    The 20% ETR Weatherford announced to analysts and investors during its year-
end conference call allowed Weatherford to ultimately meet Wall Street’s earnings expectations.  
In an internal email expressing disappointment with operational results, Weatherford’s CEO 
stated: 

              In spite of our ability to meet Wall Street’s 2007 earnings expectations, the reality 
              is that our operations delivered $130 million less than the EBIT target set. . . . a 
              lower than expected tax rate (20% vs. 29%) allow[ed] us to make our Wall Street 
              numbers for the year.  

       34.    During 2007 and throughout the relevant period, Hudgins signed representation 
letters relied upon by Weatherford senior management and Ernst & Young indicating, without 
exception, that the internal controls over financial reporting for the accounting of income taxes 
were effective and that the income tax accounting was completed in accordance with GAAP.  
These statements were false.     

                                       Fiscal Year 2008 

       35.    In 2008, Weatherford initially forecasted ETR at 22-23% for the year.  During the 
second and third quarters of 2008, however, Weatherford touted lower ETR estimates of 17-18% 
in quarterly filings and calls with analysts.  Those estimates were based on interim tax provisions 
prepared and reviewed by Hudgins and Kitay.  In its pre-restatement Form 10-K for the period 
ending December 31, 2008, Weatherford reported an ETR of 17.1% for the year. 

       36.    In 2008, Weatherford implemented a new automated software program, modified 
to Weatherford’s needs and specifications, to prepare its year-end tax provisions, replacing 
Microsoft Excel spreadsheets.  The tax software was a significant upgrade because it 
automatically populated – or “mapped” – financial accounting data into Weatherford’s tax 
provisions.  For example, the tax software was designed to ensure that all intercompany dividend 

                                               9  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

income and related dividend exclusion amounts would be automatically “mapped” and 
eliminated in consolidation without attributing any tax benefit to Weatherford.  Manual 
intervention of the mapping process required an override of the system.     

       37.    Weatherford’s tax personnel from the field collected and input detailed tax-
specific information into the tax software near and at year-end.  After Weatherford filed its Form 
10-Q for the period ending September 30, 2008, Weatherford prepared a “pretend” hard close of 
Weatherford’s tax accounts and tax provisions based on tax information collected from the field 
using recently filed third quarter numbers. The purpose of the pretend hard close was to ensure 
that Weatherford’s tax accounting controls were in place for the end of the year.”  Essentially, 
the pretend hard close was a “dry run” of all the steps Weatherford would later perform to 
finalize its consolidated tax provision at year-end.  Accordingly, the pretend hard close process 
would provide information regarding the effectiveness of Weatherford’s ICFR for the accounting 
of income taxes, but the results themselves would not be incorporated into Weatherford’s 
financial statements.       

       38.    In December 2008, as part of the pretend hard close process, Kitay ran the tax 
software to calculate Weatherford’s consolidated tax provision on at least two occasions using 
data from Weatherford’s third quarter.  Kitay noticed, and informed Hudgins, that Weatherford’s 
actual ETR closely aligned with its originally forecasted ETR of 22-23% and not the lower 
quarterly 17-18% ETR estimates and tax expense reported in quarterly financial statements and 
conference calls with analysts.  Despite the fact that Hudgins and Kitay had advance notice that 
there was another gap, during the process that was supposed to permit time to fix control issues 
and errors before year end, neither Hudgins nor Kitay made any effort to address or analyze the 
sizeable gap or inform others outside of the tax department of the gap that was occurring in the 
second consecutive year.  Instead, during a pretend hard close process that was explicitly 
designed to identify and correct potential tax accounting errors before year-end, Hudgins and 
Kitay directed others to manually override the tax software to generate results aligned with 
previously disclosed ETRs and tax expense.  

       39.    In January 2009, in preparation for year-end closing, Kitay again ran the tax 
software to calculate Weatherford’s tax provision for year-end 2008.  As a result, Hudgins and 
Kitay discovered the year-end actual ETR and tax expense they calculated pursuant to FAS 109 
far exceeded the ETR estimates and tax expense the company had disseminated publicly to 
analysts and investors during the first three quarters of 2008.  Faced with yet another opportunity 
to disclose and analyze the large gap between the actual ETR they calculated pursuant to FAS 
109 and the lower ETR estimates they reported earlier in the year, Hudgins and Kitay opted to 
perpetuate the fraud.  Specifically, Hudgins and Kitay again “plugged the gap” and falsified the 
year-end consolidated tax provision by making an unsubstantiated manual post-closing 
adjustment of $303.7 million.  The improper adjustment was made to different Luxembourg 
entities within Weatherford’s Eliminations region than those used in 2007.  The 2008 plug 
adjustment, which was improperly tax effected at 35%, allowed Weatherford to reduce its tax 
expense by $106.3 million and lower its ETR in line with previous estimates publicly disclosed 
during quarterly calls with analysts.  Although Ernst & Young repeatedly questioned this 
adjustment during its year-end audit and proposed reclassifying the adjustment to a Bermuda 

                                               10   
---------------------Page 11---------------------

entity within the Eliminations region, neither Hudgins nor Kitay informed Ernst & Young of the 
true reason for the adjustment. 

       40.    Neither Hudgins nor Kitay notified anyone outside of the tax department that they 
overrode the tax software program to finalize the ETR and resulting tax expense for fiscal year 
2008.  Nor did they disclose any concerns that errors existed within Weatherford’s corporate 
accounting that could compromise the actual ETR results and the integrity of the newly installed, 
multi-million dollar tax accounting program.  In fact, the only review Hudgins performed in 
2008 was to ask Kitay if the adjustment “was the same treatment as last year.”  Further, 
Weatherford senior management did not ask Hudgins how the ETR had moved from 22% to the 
final disclosed rate of 17.1%, which beat analysts’ expectations once again. 

       41.    During 2008, Hudgins actively lobbied for officer status and the higher 
compensation it brought.  Hudgins justified becoming an officer, in part, by pointing to the ETR 
he was able to obtain for Weatherford.  For example, in November 2008, Hudgins allegedly sent 
an email to Weatherford’s CEO, which included the following:   

           “I’m very upset that I’m not an officer yet.  I achieved a 17% rate this year, and all of 
           you treat me like sh[**].”   

Weatherford promoted Hudgins to officer shortly after Weatherford released earnings for fiscal 
year 2008, which reflected a pre-restatement ETR of 17.1%. 

                                    Fiscal Years 2009-2010 

       42.    In 2009 and 2010, Weatherford continued to report ETR estimates and tax 
expense in quarterly financial statements and conference calls with analysts that conflicted with 
the significantly higher actual ETR results Hudgins and Kitay were calculating at year end under 
FAS 109.  During both the pretend hard close process and at year-end for these years, Hudgins 
and Kitay once again observed large gaps between the actual ETR and year-end tax expense they 
calculated using the tax software and the lower estimated ETR and resulting tax expenses that 
they reported to analysts and investors.  Hudgins and Kitay never disclosed these large gaps to 
anyone at Weatherford outside the tax department.  

       43.    Faced with four additional opportunities to disclose and analyze these gaps during 
the pretend hard close and year-end process in 2009 and 2010, Hudgins and Kitay chose each 
time to make unsupported adjustments to Weatherford’s consolidated tax provision that 
artificially lowered the company’s ETR.  They made unsubstantiated manual post-closing plug 
adjustments of $290.4 million and $286.6 million during year end 2009 and 2010, respectively, 
by overriding accounting data that had been automatically and correctly input into Weatherford’s 
consolidated tax provision.  These plug adjustments, which were made in 2009 and 2010 using a 
Bermuda entity within Weatherford’s Eliminations region, improperly lowered Weatherford’s 
tax expense by $101.6 million and $100.3 million during 2009, and 2010, respectively.    

       44.    Each year, Hudgins and Kitay used different entities that masked the post-closing 
adjustments that plugged gaps to allow Weatherford to lower its ETR and appear to have a 
successful and competitive tax structure.  For three of the four fiscal years, the dividend 
exclusion plug adjustments involved different entities within Weatherford’s Eliminations region.  
                                               11   
---------------------Page 12---------------------

      For example, the dividend exclusion plug adjustments made within Weatherford’s Eliminations 
      region in 2009 and 2010 involved the same Bermuda entity, but the plug adjustments made in 
      2007 and 2008 were associated with three different Luxembourg entities.  Hudgins and Kitay 
      aggravated the magnitude of the fraud by inappropriately tax-effecting these adjustments by 
      attributing a 35% tax rate to calculate the “tax benefit” purportedly associated with either 0%-
      tax-rate (Bermuda) or low-single-tax-rate (Luxembourg) jurisdictions, as follows: 

      Unsupported Manual Entries - Fiscal Year 2007

WFT Luxembourg SARL                           $195,430,220 
WFT Financing (Luxembourg) SARL               $244,298,216 
Total Unsupported Adjustment                  $439,728,436
Tax Rate Improperly Applied                             35%
2007 Plugged Tax Benefit                       $153,904,953 

      Unsupported Manual Entries - Fiscal Year 2008
WFT Luxembourg SARL                           $195,429,960 
WFT Investment (Luxembourg) SARL              $108,245,404 
Total Unsupported Adjustment                  $303,675,364
Tax Rate Improperly Applied                             35%
2008 Plugged Tax Benefit                       $106,286,377                          

                          First Restatement - Phantom Income Tax Receivable 
      Unsupported Manual Entries - Fiscal Year 2009
Total Unsupported Adj. - WFT Bermuda Ltd.45. The inappropriate plug adjustments and the resulting $290,407,796 improper tax benefits 
      recorded from 2007 through 2010 created a $461 million debit balance to Weatherford’s current 
Tax Rate Improperly Applied                             35%
      income tax payable, which Respondents reclassified as an income tax receivable for reporting 
2009 Plugged Tax Benefit                       $101,642,729 
      purposes.  “Current income tax payable” is a balance sheet liability account with a credit balance 
      comprised of taxes to be paid within a year.  While income tax receivables with debit balances 
      may arise for short periods, such as when a company is due a tax refund, the multi-year large 
      Unsupported Manual Entries - Fiscal Year 2010
Total Unsupported Adj. - WFT Bermuda Ltd.     $286,632,936 
                                                    12   
Tax Rate Improperly Applied                             35%
2010 Plugged Tax Benefit                       $100,321,528 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

debit balance Weatherford experienced should have raised red flags long before the First 
Restatement.     

        46.     Weatherford’s $461 million receivable balance was not the product of an 
abnormally large anticipated refund, the prospect for which Respondents had no reasonable 
expectation.  Instead, this phantom income tax receivable occurred because the current income 
tax payable accounts annually recorded from the consolidated tax provision were understated by 
the amount of each year’s fraudulent tax benefit.  Essentially, the consolidated tax provision and 
the resulting balance sheet understatement did not reflect the tax amounts Weatherford actually 
paid to various jurisdictions.  Over time, this disparity created a huge debit balance anomaly 
within Weatherford’s current income tax payable account that was as high as $155 million in 
2009, grew to $279 million at June 30,  2010, and to $441 million at December 31, 2010.  The 
                                                                  5
effect of the phantom income tax receivable is shown below:              

                                                                                                      

        4 7 .   Hudgins and Ki   tay  knew, or were reckless in not knowing, that the dividend 
exclusion plug adjustment   s   were   causing the corresponding phantom income tax receivabl     e.  
Kitay    reviewed the balance sheet tax accounts by region on at least an annual basis    , and by early 
2009, w as   aware of the rising income tax   debit balance.   
  
        48.     Hudgins and Kitay made misleading statements about the true reasons for the 
growing tax debit balance, claiming falsely that they had made either sizeable prepayments or 
overpayments to foreign tax jurisdictions that they would be working to recover.  For example, 
during the fourth quarter of 2009, Weatherford reclassified the large debit balance within the 
Current Income Tax Payable account to a Prepaid Other account.  In response to Ernst & Young 
inquiries about the large “Prepaid Other” debit balance, Kitay responded “we do not believe it 
would be appropriate to classify these balances as receivables until such time as a claim for 

                                                 
5
        The year-end 2010 current income tax balance of $441,553,629 included the $461 million phantom 
receivable and a $20 million credit balance to “U.S. Income Tax Payable.” 
                                                   13   
---------------------Page 14---------------------

refund has been filed.”  By 2010, Hudgins was aware of the phantom receivable and told others 
at Weatherford that he was working to recover all overpaid amounts, although he knew there 
were no such overpaid amounts.   
 
       49.     Hudgins and Kitay knew that Weatherford was not entitled to, nor had any 
expectation of, receiving tax refunds for the receivable amount.  Neither they nor Weatherford 
corporate accounting personnel responsible for monitoring the balance sheet made any attempt to 
reconcile Weatherford’s rising income tax receivable balance at any time before February 2011. 
 
      First Restatement – Discovery of Material Weakness and Material Misstatement 
                
       50.     While performing its audit of Weatherford’s 2010 pretend hard close consolidated 
tax provision, Ernst & Young uncovered certain income tax accounting errors that increased 
Weatherford’s overall tax liability for fiscal year 2010, including a spreadsheet computational error 
related to a Slovakia-based subsidiary that increased Weatherford’s tax expense and tax liability by 
$13.4 million.  Hudgins knew the impact these errors would have on Weatherford’s ETR and tax 
expense targets.  Hudgins instructed the tax department to work around the clock to hunt for 
additional credits to reduce the tax liability and offset the unexpected Slovakia tax charge.   
        
       51.     On January 20, 2011, Hudgins informed an Ernst & Young tax partner that he 
found “Pepto Bismol” to offset the unexpected Slovakia tax charge.  On January 21, 2011, Kitay 
sent Ernst & Young an email with a list of newly recorded offsetting tax benefits, which Ernst & 
Young understood to be Hudgins’ “Pepto Bismol.”  Among the items, most of which were later 
determined to be unsupportable, the list included a tax benefit for $14.4 million in Russia 
intercompany expenses (i.e., management fees, royalties, interest, mark-up and service fees).  At 
the time Hudgins informed Ernst & Young that he recorded the Russian tax benefit, he did not 
have the appropriate signed documentation in place to take the tax benefit.  Emails exchanged 
between Hudgins and Kitay during this period make clear that Hudgins knew a portion ($8.2 
million) of Russian intercompany expenses were not deductible.  Ultimately, Ernst & Young 
determined that Weatherford did not have appropriate supporting documentation to record the tax 
benefit associated with the Russian intercompany expenses and rejected Hudgins’ representations 
to the contrary.  
        
       52.    In performing its audit of Weatherford’s 2010 pretend hard close, Ernst & Young 
and Weatherford identified a number of additional income tax accounting errors that increased  
Weatherford’s tax expense by tens of millions of dollars, including: (1) failure to timely accrue  
foreign  flat taxes;  (2) uncertain tax position accruals that were not reflected in Weatherford’s 
consolidated tax provisions; (3) entries to prematurely reverse liabilities related to uncertain tax 
positions (some of which were improperly classified as current taxes payable); and (4) 
understatements of income tax expense related to deferred tax liability.     
        
       53.     On or about February 15, 2011, after consideration of the errors and issues 
discovered and after consultation with Ernst & Young, Weatherford’s internal audit group 
concluded that there was a material weakness in internal control surrounding accounting for 
income taxes due to:  inadequate staffing and technical expertise; ineffective review and approval 

                                               14   
---------------------Page 15---------------------

      practices; inadequate processes to effectively reconcile income tax accounts; and inadequate 
      controls over the preparation of Weatherford’s quarterly tax provision.   
               
              54.    After the identification of the material weakness, Ernst & Young expanded the 
      audit procedures for all income tax accounts, including a reconciliation of Weatherford’s current 
      taxes payable (and receivable) accounts.  On or about February 20, 2011 a review of 
      Weatherford’s income tax receivable balance uncovered the phantom $461 million receivable in 
      the Eliminations Region account, which, in turn, led to the First Restatement.  At no time prior to 
      this process, did Hudgins or Kitay inform anyone of the true reason they made the post-closing 
      adjustments. 
               
              55.    On March 1, 2011, Weatherford filed a Form 8-K with the Commission, in which it 
      made public for the first time that it would be restating its financial results for 2007-2010 and 
      that a material weakness existed in its ICFR for the accounting of income taxes.  Weatherford’s 
      stock price dropped nearly 11% to $21.14 on the news.   
               
              56.    On March 8, 2011, Weatherford filed its First Restatement, in which it restated its 
      previously reported financial results for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, and 
      the first three quarters of 2010.  According to Weatherford, the First Restatement was necessary 
      to correct “errors in [the Company’s] accounting for income taxes.”  The First Restatement 
      reduced Weatherford’s previously reported net income by $500 million, $461 million of which 
      related to the dividend exclusion plug adjustment, which the First Restatement called “an error in 
      determining the tax consequences of intercompany amounts over multiple years.”  The following 
      table depicts the impact the Restatement had on Weatherford’s reported net income for the 
      periods covered by the First Restatement: 
               

                 Reported Net      Restated Net 
                                                                                         
 Year Ended         Income            Income        % Change
                                                        
                  (in millions)     (in millions)Second and Third Restatements 
    2007        $            1,070.6  $               940.613.8% 
    2008      57$           . Immediately after filing its First Restatement, Weatherford initiated a large 1,393.2  $            1,246.511.3%-scale 

    2009effort led by Hudgins to remediate its material weakness in ICFR $               253.8  $               170.142.6%for its accounting of income 
      taxes.  Thus, Weatherford put Hudgins in charge of the tax accounting remediation process and 
Q1 - Q3 2010  $                 78.3  $               (21.6) 462.0%
      permitted Kitay to be an active participant.  Throughout 2011, Weatherford continued to timely 
      report earnings and file its financial statements.  In doing so, Weatherford provided repeated 
      assurances to the public that it performed “additional reconciliations and other post-closing 
      procedures” to ensure its financial statements were true, accurate, and in compliance with 
      GAAP.  Hudgins, for his part, executed signed representation letters to Weatherford’s then-CFO 

                                                      15   
---------------------Page 16---------------------

and Ernst & Young that falsely claimed his belief that Weatherford’s consolidated tax provisions 
and underlying expenses were “fairly presented in all material respects in accordance with 
GAAP” and that he was neither aware of any material transactions that had not been properly 
recorded in the consolidated income tax accounts nor any deviations from GAAP that would 
cause material misstatements in Weatherford’s financial statements. 

       58.    Before the end of the second quarter in 2011, Weatherford identified dozens of 
issues related to its internal control for the accounting of income taxes that required thorough 
review and remediation.  Weatherford and Hudgins, however, performed little, if any, testing to 
determine whether, and to what extent, these failures could cause additional material 
misstatements in Weatherford’s financial statements.  Instead, Weatherford, through Hudgins, 
developed a time line for remediation that, in relevant part, pushed out until the fourth quarter of 
2011 the review, assessment, and quantification of major issues that had a high risk of causing 
material misstatement in previously filed Weatherford financial statements dating back to 2007, 
if not earlier.  For example, prior to 2012, Weatherford accounted for withholding taxes on 
certain intercompany transactions (i.e., interest, management fees, royalties, and rent) on a cash 
basis.  This is contrary to GAAP, which requires accrual basis accounting treatment.  
Weatherford, through Hudgins, did not hide the cash basis accounting treatment from Ernst & 
Young before the First Restatement, but claimed, without support, that the difference in 
treatment was immaterial to Weatherford’s financials.  They were wrong.  The Second 
Restatement included an $84 million reduction to Weatherford’s previously reported net income 
to correct for Weatherford’s failure to accrue for these withholding taxes prior to 2012.      

       59.    The failure to consider accrual basis accounting treatment for these withholding 
taxes reflected a breakdown of internal controls for accounting of income taxes, particularly in a 
company like Weatherford that was experiencing long-term exponential growth on a multi-
national scale.  Before Weatherford filed its Form 10-Q for the period ending September 30, 
2011, Weatherford and Hudgins, knew, or were reckless in not knowing, that their failure to 
accrue for withholding taxes on intercompany transactions (i.e., interest, management fees, 
royalties, and rent) was a deviation from GAAP that would cause Weatherford’s financial 
statements to be materially misstated.  By July 2011, and perhaps sooner, Weatherford and 
Hudgins recognized that the failure to accrue for withholding taxes on intercompany transactions 
was erroneous.  They also knew Weatherford was conducting training worldwide to remediate 
the behavior.  Despite this knowledge, they made no effort to quantify the difference between 
cash and accrual accounting before Weatherford issued its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 
September 30, 2011.  Instead, they scheduled that work to be performed during the fourth quarter 
of 2011.   

       60.    On February 21, 2012, Weatherford announced it had not remediated its material 
weakness in its internal controls for accounting of income taxes and had identified additional 
errors which required a second restatement, which it filed on March 15, 2012 (the “Second 
Restatement”).  Weatherford’s stock price dropped nearly 14% from $17.79 to $15.36 on the 
February 21, 2012 news of the Second Restatement, resulting in a market capitalization loss of 
over $1.8 billion.  The Second Restatement restated Weatherford financial results from 2007 
through 2011, reducing net income by an additional $256 million as a result of additional errors 
in Weatherford’s income tax accounting, $84 million of which was driven by the failure to 

                                               16   
---------------------Page 17---------------------

accrue for intercompany withholding taxes.  The remaining errors represented the culmination of 
a year-long, then-still incomplete, remediation effort led by Hudgins that revealed a complete 
breakdown of internal accounting controls and a wholesale failure to make and keep books and 
records that accurately and fairly reflected Weatherford’s tax transactions.  The effort revealed 
hundreds of erroneous income tax accounting entries covering multiple tax topics, including: (i) 
uncertain tax positions; (ii) deferred tax assets and liabilities; and (iii) valuation allowances.  On 
March 23, 2012, Weatherford announced the voluntary resignation of Hudgins and its CFO.  
After the filing of the Second Restatement, Weatherford relieved Kitay of all supervisory 
responsibilities associated with Weatherford’s income tax accounting. 

       61.     Four months later, on July 24, 2012, Weatherford announced that it would restate 
certain prior years’ financial statements, including $92 million in prior period tax expenses and 
further adjustments of up to $15 million.  The Third Restatement was caused, in part, by a 
material tax accounting error that a Weatherford employee initially identified in an email dated 
                                                                                6
March 8, 2012, shortly before the filing of Weatherford’s Second Restatement.   The email, 
however, went unanswered for over a month.  As a result, Weatherford failed to establish a 
timely reserve for this liability, which resulted from Weatherford’s improper allocation of 
regional costs among its Latin American entities for tax purposes.  Weatherford later claimed 
this error “fell through the cracks” and was the result of an internal control failure that allowed 
the issue to remain unaddressed until after the Second Restatement was filed, and shortly after 
Weatherford issued $1.3 billion in Senior Notes on April 4, 2012.  Weatherford’s stock dropped 
another 8.8% from $12.80 to $11.67 as a result of the July 24, 2012 announcement. 

       62.     On July 24, 2012, after restating and re-restating its financial statements from 
2007 forward, Weatherford again announced that it was withdrawing reliance on previously-filed 
financial statements and that it would stop issuing financial statements until it had completed 
additional procedures and reviews of its accounting for income taxes.  Pursuant to the July 24, 
2012 announcement, Weatherford conducted reconciliations of tax-basis balance sheets for each 
legal entity that was part of its consolidated financial statements.  Upon conclusion of this 
exercise, Weatherford issued the Third Restatement on December 17, 2012 in a Form 10-K/A for 
the fiscal year ending on December 31, 2011.  The Third Restatement reduced net income by an 
additional $186 million, largely driven by Weatherford’s then-continuing effort to remediate its 
material weakness over its internal controls for accounting of income taxes.  On February 25, 
2014, Weatherford reported that it had successfully remediated its material weakness in internal 
controls for accounting of income taxes when it filed its Form 10-K for the year ended December 
31, 2013.   

                                         VIOLATIONS 
                                                  
       63.     Securities Act Section 17(a)(1), Exchange Act Section 10(b) and Rule 10b-5 
thereunder prohibit fraudulent conduct in the offer or sale of securities and in connection with 
the purchase or sale of securities. 

                                                 
6
       Weatherford’s July 24, 2012 filing also included a material weakness finding related to a long-term 
construction contract accounted for erroneously under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting.  This 
material weakness was reported as remediated as of December 31, 2012 when Weatherford issued its Form 10-K on 
March 4, 2013.  
                                                17   
---------------------Page 18---------------------

        
       64.     Securities Act Section 17(a)(2) prohibits any person from obtaining money or 
property in the offer or sale of securities by means of any untrue statement of a material fact or 
any omission to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in light of 
the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. 
        
       65. Securities Act Section 17(a)(3) prohibits any person from engaging in any 
transaction, practice, or course of business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit 
upon the purchaser in the offer or sale of securities. 
        
       66.     Exchange Act Section 13(a) and Rules 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder 
require that every issuer of a security registered pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12 file with 
the Commission, among other things, annual, quarterly and other reports as the Commission may 
require. 
        
       67.     Rule 12b-20 under the Exchange Act requires that, in addition to the information 
expressly required to be included in a statement or report filed with the Commission, there shall 
be added such further material information, if any, as may be necessary to make the required 
statements, in light of the circumstances under which they are made not misleading. 
        
       68.     Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(A) requires reporting companies to make and 
keep books, records and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their 
transactions and dispositions of their assets. 
        
       69.     Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(B) requires all reporting companies to devise and 
maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance 
with GAAP. 
        
       70.     Exchange Act Section 13(b)(5) prohibits any person from knowingly 
circumventing or knowingly failing to implement a system of internal accounting controls or 
knowingly falsifying any book, record, or account described in Section 13(b)(2). 
        
       71.     Rule 13b2-1 under the Exchange Act prohibits any person from directly or 
indirectly, falsifying or causing to be falsified, any book, record, or account subject to Exchange 
Act Section 13(b)(2)(A).  Rule 13b2-2(a) under the Exchange Act provides that no director or 
officer of an issuer shall, in connection with financial-statement audits, reviews, or examinations 
or the preparation or filing of any document or report required to be filed with the Commission, 
directly or indirectly: (1) make or cause to be made a materially false or misleading statement to 
an accountant; or (2) omit to state, or cause another person to omit to state, any material fact 
necessary in order to make statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such 
statements were made, not misleading, to an accountant.  
        
        
        

                                               18   
---------------------Page 19---------------------

                                            Findings 
        
       72.    As a result of the conduct described above, Weatherford violated Securities Act 
Section 17(a) and Exchange Act Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) and Rules 
10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder. 
 
       73.    As a result of the conduct described above, Hudgins: (i) willfully violated 
Securities Act Section 17(a), Exchange Act Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) and Rules 10b-5(a) and 
(c), 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 promulgated thereunder; (ii) caused Weatherford’s violations of 
Securities Act Section 17(a), Exchange Act Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and (B) and Rules 
10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 promulgated thereunder; and (iii) willfully violated the 
federal securities laws or rules and regulations thereunder pursuant to Section 4C of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
        
       74.    As a result of the conduct described above, Kitay: (i) willfully violated Securities 
Act Section 17(a), Exchange Act Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) and Rules 10b-5(a) and (c), 13b2-1 
promulgated thereunder; (ii) caused Weatherford’s violations of Securities Act Section 17(a), 
Exchange Act Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and (B) and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-
11, and 13a-13 promulgated thereunder; and (iii) willfully violated the federal securities laws or 
rules and regulations thereunder pursuant to Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 
102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
        
                       COOPERATION AND REMEDIAL ACTIONS 
 
       In determining to accept Weatherford’s Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts 
undertaken by Weatherford and cooperation it afforded the Commission staff.  Weatherford 
retained outside counsel to conduct an investigation after the First and Second Restatements and its 
Audit Committee retained separate outside counsel to conduct an independent investigation 
pursuant to Section 10A of the Exchange Act.  The results of those investigations were shared with 
Commission staff.  Over a period of several years, Weatherford expended significant resources to 
remediate the material weakness in its internal controls for accounting of income taxes.  
Weatherford employed third-party consultants to develop enhanced controls to overhaul its tax 
accounting process and accounting functions.  It created several new positions within its tax 
department to prevent the recurrence of similar income tax accounting issues.  Weatherford 
replaced Hudgins and its CFO with more experienced accounting professionals and modified its 
reporting lines to ensure appropriate review of the consolidated tax provision and all accounting for 
income taxes.   
                                                 
                                      UNDERTAKINGS 
                                                 
       Weatherford shall comply with the following undertakings:  
 
       1.  Report to the Commission staff during a two-year term, as set forth herein, 
           Weatherford’s compliance with Commission regulations and GAAP regarding its 
           accounting for income taxes, financial reporting, and the status of any remediation, 

                                               19   
---------------------Page 20---------------------

   implementation, auditing and testing of its internal accounting controls and 
   compliance measures.  During this two-year period, should Weatherford discover 
   credible evidence, not already reported to the Commission staff, that significant 
   deficiencies in the design or operation of its accounting for income taxes exist, 
   Weatherford shall report such significant deficiencies to the Commission staff and 
   state that it cannot certify compliance.  During this two-year period, Weatherford 
   shall:  (1) conduct an initial review and submit an initial report, and (2) conduct and 
   prepare follow-up reviews and reports, as described below: 
    
   a.  Weatherford shall submit to the Commission  staff a written report   within 150  
       calendar days of the entry of this Order setting forth a complete description of its 
       internal accounting controls, policies, and procedures over its accounting for 
       income taxes, including the consolidated tax provision, quarterly tax provision, 
       elimination accounting, effective tax rate, financial reporting of income taxes, and 
       internal audit of the tax and accounting departments (the “Initial Report”).  The 
       Initial Report should also include Weatherford’s remediation efforts to date, 
       including a description of the controls, policies, and procedures in place, and any 
       proposals to make improvements, that are reasonably designed to improve the 
       internal accounting controls, policies and procedures of Weatherford for ensuring 
       compliance with Commission regulations and GAAP, and the parameters of the 
       subsequent reviews.  The Initial Report shall be transmitted to Tracy Price, 
       Assistant Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange 
       Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-5631.  Weatherford may 
       extend the time period for issuance of the Initial Report with prior written 
       approval of the Commission staff. 
        
   b.  Weatherford shall undertake at least two follow-up reviews, for fiscal years 2016 
       and 2017, incorporating any comments provided by the Commission staff on the 
       previous report, to further test, monitor and assess whether its internal accounting 
       controls, policies and procedures over its accounting for income taxes are 
       reasonably designed to:  (1) provide reasonable assurance of compliance with 
       Commission regulations and GAAP; and (2) detect and prevent material 
       weaknesses or significant deficiencies in the design or operation of its accounting 
       for income taxes.  Weatherford shall submit to the Commission staff follow-up 
       reports summarizing the 2016 and 2017 reviews    (the “Follow-up Reports”).   
 
      i.  The first Follow-up Report shall be completed by no later than 180 days after 
         the Initial Report. The second Follow-up Report shall be completed by no later 
         than 380 days after the completion of the Initial Report. Weatherford may 
         extend the time period for issuance of the Follow-up Reports with prior written 
         approval of the Commission staff. 
          
     ii.  The Initial and Follow-up Reports submitted by Weatherford will likely include 
         proprietary, financial, confidential, and competitive business information. Public 
         disclosure of the reports could discourage cooperation, impede pending or 

                                        20   
---------------------Page 21---------------------

                 potential government investigations and thus undermine the objectives of the 
                 reporting requirement. For these reasons, among others, the reports and the 
                 contents thereof are intended to remain and shall remain non-public, except (a) 
                 pursuant to court order, (b) as agreed by the parties in writing, (c) to the extent 
                 that the Commission staff determines in its sole discretion that disclosure would 
                 be in furtherance of the Commission's discharge of its duties and 
                 responsibilities, or (d) is otherwise required by law. 
 
           c.  Certify, in writing, compliance with the undertaking(s) set forth above. The 
               certification shall identify the undertaking(s) provide written evidence of 
               compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient to 
               demonstrate compliance. The Commission staff may make reasonable requests for 
               further evidence of compliance, and Weatherford agrees to provide such evidence. 
               The certification and supporting materials shall be submitted to Tracy Price, 
               Assistant Director, Division of Enforcement, with a copy to the Office of the Chief 
               Counsel of the Enforcement Division, no later than 30 days from the date of the 
               completion of the undertakings. 
                
           d.  Within two-years of the entry of this Order, should Weatherford discover credible 
               evidence, not already reported to the Commission staff, that its internal control over 
               financial reporting in areas unrelated to accounting for income taxes is not free 
               from material weakness, Weatherford shall provide a detailed report of any material 
               weakness to the Commission staff.   
        
       2.  Weatherford shall preserve and retain all documentation regarding all certifications and 
           reports for seven (7) years and will make it available to the Commission staff upon 
           request. 
                
       3.  In determining whether to accept Weatherford’s Offer, the Commission has considered 
           these undertakings.  Weatherford agrees that if the Division of Enforcement believes 
           that Weatherford has not satisfied these undertakings, it may petition the Commission 
           to reopen the matter to determine whether additional sanctions are appropriate.  For 
           good cause shown, the Commission staff may in its sole discretion extend any of the 
           procedural dates relating to the undertakings.  
                
       4.  Weatherford (including its officers, directors, and employees, and third-party 
           consultants within Weatherford’s control) shall cooperate fully with the Commission 
           with respect to this action and any related judicial or administrative proceeding or 
           investigation commenced by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party 
           and subject to compliance with applicable law.  Weatherford agrees that such 
           cooperation shall include, but is not limited to: 
        
           a.  Production of Information: at the Commission’s request, upon reasonable notice, 
               and without subpoena, Weatherford (including its officers, directors, and 
               employees, and third-party consultants within Weatherford’s control) shall 
               truthfully and completely disclose all information requested by the Commission 
                                                21   
---------------------Page 22---------------------

               staff in connection with the Commission’s investigation, litigation or other related 
               proceedings, except with respect to information related to clients other than 
               Weatherford, which information shall be produced in response to subpoena or other 
               appropriate legal process; 
                
           b.  Production of Documents: at the Commission’s request, upon reasonable notice, 
               and without subpoena, Weatherford (including its officers, directors, and 
               employees, and third-party consultants within Weatherford’s control) shall provide 
               any document, record or other tangible evidence requested by the Commission staff 
               in connection with the Commission’s investigation, litigation or other related 
               proceedings, except with respect to documents related to clients other than 
               Weatherford, which information shall be produced in response to subpoena or other 
               appropriate legal process; and 
        
           c.  Production of Cooperative Personnel: at the Commission’s request, upon 
               reasonable notice, and without subpoena, Weatherford (including its officers, 
               directors, and employees, and third-party consultants within Weatherford’s control) 
               shall secure the attendance and truthful statements, deposition, or testimony of any 
               Weatherford officer, director, or employee or third-party consultant within 
               Weatherford’s control, excluding any person who is a party to any related litigated 
               judicial or administrative proceeding, at any meeting, interview, testimony, 
               deposition, trial, or other legal proceeding. 

               The foregoing obligations are subject to Weatherford’s reservation of rights: 
                               
               (i)     to claim that documents or information requested is subject to attorney-
                       client privilege or attorney-work-product protection; and  
               (ii)    to seek entry of a confidentiality order as to: sensitive business documents 
                       or information; sensitive personnel documents or information; or 
                       confidential information pertaining to clients other than Weatherford. 
                
           d.  Service and Personal Jurisdiction Consents:  Weatherford further agrees that, with 
               respect to this action and any related judicial or administrative proceeding or 
               investigation commenced by the Commission or to which the Commission is a 
               party, it will: (i) accept service by email, mail or facsimile transmission of notices, 
               requests, or subpoenas issued by the Commission for documents or testimony at 
               depositions, hearings, or trials, or in connection with any related investigation by 
               the Commission staff (“Commission Service”); (ii) appoint Weatherford’s 
               undersigned attorney as agent to receive Commission Service; (iii) with respect to 
               Commission Service, waive the territorial limits upon service contained in Rule 45 
               for the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and any applicable local rules, provided 
               that the party requesting the testimony reimburses Weatherford’s travel, lodging, 
               and subsistence expenses at the then-prevailing U.S. Government per diem rates; 
               and (iv) consent to personal jurisdiction over Weatherford in any United States 
               District Court for purposes of enforcing any Commission Service. 
 

                                                22   
---------------------Page 23---------------------

                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
 
       Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Exchange Act, and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, it is hereby ORDERED, 
effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.     Weatherford cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
               future violations of Securities Act Section 17(a), Exchange Act Sections 10(b), 
               13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and13(b)(2) (B), and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 
               13a-13 promulgated thereunder. 
                
       B.     Hudgins cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future 
               violations of Securities Act Section 17(a), Exchange Act Sections 10(b), 13(a), 
               13(b)(2)(A),  13(b)(2)(B), and 13(b)(5), and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, 
               13a-13, 13b2-1, and 13b2-2 promulgated thereunder. 
                
       C.     Hudgins is denied the privilege of appearing and practicing before the Commission 
               as an accountant. 
        
       D.     Hudgins be, and hereby is, prohibited for five (5) years from the date of this Order 
               from acting as an officer or director of any issuer that has a class of securities 
               registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act and is required to file reports 
               pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. 
        
       E.     After five (5) years from the date of this Order, Hudgins may request that the 
               Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (Attention: 
               Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the 
               Commission as: 
 
               1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, of 
               any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission. 
               Such an application must satisfy the Commission that Hudgins’ work in his 
               practice before the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit 
               committee of the public company for which he works or in some other acceptable 
               manner, as long as he practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
                
               2. an independent accountant. Such an application must satisfy the Commission 
               that: (a) Hudgins, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
               registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
               accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues 
               to be effective; (b) Hudgins, or the registered public accounting firm with which 
               he is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not 

                                               23   
---------------------Page 24---------------------

               identify any criticisms of or potential defects in Hudgins’, or the firm’s quality 
               control system that would indicate that Hudgins will not receive appropriate 
               supervision; (c) Hudgins has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
               has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board 
               (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and (d) Hudgins acknowledges his 
               responsibility, as long as Hudgins appears or practices before the Commission as 
               an independent accountant, to comply with all requirements of the Commission 
               and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to 
               registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards 
                           
       F.     The Commission will consider an application by Hudgins to resume appearing or 
               practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and 
               he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
               accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
               Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
               Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters 
               referenced above, any other matters relating to Hudgins’ character, integrity, 
               professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
                
       G.     Kitay cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future 
               violations of Securities Act Section 17(a), Exchange Act Sections 10(b), 13(a), 
               13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B), and 13(b)(5), and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, 
               13a-13, and 13b2-1 promulgated thereunder. 
                
       H.     Kitay is denied the privilege of appearing and practicing before the Commission as 
               an accountant. 
        
       I.      After five (5) years from the date of this Order, Kitay may request that the 
               Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (Attention: 
               Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the 
               Commission as: 
 
               1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, of 
               any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission. 
               Such an application must satisfy the Commission that Kitay’s work in his practice 
               before the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit 
               committee of the public company for which he works or in some other acceptable 
               manner, as long as he practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
                
               2. an independent accountant. Such an application must satisfy the Commission 
               that: (a) Kitay, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
               registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
               accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues 
               to be effective; (b) Kitay, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
               is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify 

                                               24   
---------------------Page 25---------------------

       any criticisms of or potential defects in Kitay’s, or the firm’s quality control 
       system that would indicate that Kitay will not receive appropriate supervision; (c) 
       Kitay has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has complied with 
       all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
       reinstatement by the Commission); and (d) Kitay acknowledges his responsibility, 
       as long as Kitay appears or practices before the Commission as an independent 
       accountant, to comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, 
       including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, 
       concurring partner reviews and quality control standards 
                    
J.      The Commission will consider an application by Kitay to resume appearing or 
       practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and 
       he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
       accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
       Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
       Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters 
       referenced above, any other matters relating to Kitay’s character, integrity, 
       professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
K.     Weatherford shall pay a civil money penalty in the amount of $140,000,000 to the 
       Securities and Exchange Commission.  Payment and post-Order interest pursuant to 
       SEC Rule of Practice 600 shall be made in the following installments:  one 
       installment of $50,000,000 million due within twenty-one (21) days of the date of 
       the entry of this Order, and then three installments of $30,000,000 due within 120, 
       240, and 360 days of the entry of this Order.  If any payment is not made by the date 
       the payment is required by this Order, the entire outstanding balance of civil 
       penalties, plus any additional interest accrued pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600 
       or 31 U.S.C. Section 3717, shall be due and payable immediately, without further 
       application. 
 
L.     Hudgins shall, within twenty-one (21) days of the entry of this Order, pay 
       disgorgement of $169,728, prejudgment interest of $39,339, and a civil money 
       penalty in the amount of $125,000, for a total of $334,067 to the Securities and 
       Exchange Commission.  If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall 
       accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600 or 31 U.S.C. Section 3717. 
 
M.     Kitay shall pay a civil money penalty in the amount of $30,000 to the Securities and 
       Exchange Commission.  Payment and post-Order interest pursuant to SEC Rule of 
       Practice 600 shall be made in the following installments:  one installment of $10,000 
       due within twenty-one (21) days of the date of the entry of this Order; one 
       installment of $10,000 due within 180 days of the date of the entry of this Order; and 
       one installment of $10,000 due within 360 days of the date of the entry of this Order.  
       If any payment is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the 
       entire outstanding balance of civil penalties, plus any additional interest accrued 

                                        25   
---------------------Page 26---------------------

               pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600 or 31 U.S.C. Section 3717, shall be due and 
               payable immediately, without further application.  
        
       N.     Payment must be made in one of the following ways: 
        
                  (1) Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                      will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request; 
                       
                  (2) Respondents  may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www/sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or 
                       
                  (3) Respondents  may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to: 
 
                                     Enterprise Services Center 
                                     Accounts Receivable Branch 
                                     HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                                     6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                                     Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
        
       O.     Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter 
               identifying Weatherford International plc, James Hudgins, or Darryl Kitay as a 
               Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings.  A 
               copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be simultaneously sent to 
               Tracy L. Price, Esq., Assistant Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and 
               Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE, Washington, DC 20549-5631. 
                
       P.     Pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, a Fair 
               Fund is created for the disgorgement, prejudgment interest AND civil money 
               penalties referenced in Paragraphs K, L, and M above.  Amounts ordered to be 
               paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be treated as penalties 
               paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To preserve the 
               deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Weatherford, Hudgins, and Kitay agree that in 
               any Related Investor Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall 
               they benefit by, offset or reduction of any award of compensatory damages by the 
               amount of any part of Weatherford’s, Hudgins’, and Kitay’s payment of a civil 
               penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset").  If the court in any Related Investor Action 
               grants such a Penalty Offset, Weatherford, Hudgins, and Kitay agree that they shall, 
               within 30 days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the 
               Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the 
               Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be deemed an 
               additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil 
               penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related 
               Investor Action" means a private damages action brought against Weatherford, 

                                               26   
---------------------Page 27---------------------

               Hudgins, and/or Kitay by or on behalf of one or more investors based on 
               substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in 
               this proceeding. 
                
       Q.     Respondents Hudgins and Kitay stipulate solely for purposes of exceptions to 
               discharge set forth in Section 523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S. C. §523, that the 
               findings in the Order are true and admitted by Respondents Hudgins and Kitay, and 
               further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other 
               amounts due by Respondents Hudgins and Kitay under the Order or any other 
               judgment, order, consent order, decree or settlement agreement entered in 
               connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by Respondents Hudgins 
               and Kitay of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such 
               laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. 
               §523(a)(19). 
                
       R.     Respondent Weatherford shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in Section 
               III. above. 
        
        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                     Brent J Fields 
                                                     Secretary 
 

                                                27   
