---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                     Before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 10286 / January 23, 2017 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 79857 / January 23, 2017 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3855 / January 23, 2017  

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-17807 
 
                                            ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
In the Matter of                           DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
                                           SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT 
      OVERSEAS SHIPHOLDING                 OF 1933 AND SECTION 21C OF THE 
      GROUP, INC.                          SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, 
                                           MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A 
      and                                  CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER  
       
      MYLES ROBERT ITKIN,  
 
Respondents. 
 
 
 
 
                                          I. 
 
     The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
public cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the 
Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. (“OSG” or “the Company”)  
and Myles Robert Itkin (“Itkin”) (collectively “Respondents”). 
 
                                          II. 
           
     In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondents 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 

consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 
8A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
making findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                                III. 
 
                                                                                  1
      On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds  that: 
 
                                            SUMMARY     
       
      1.    This matter concerns the failure of OSG to record material federal income tax 
liabilities in its financial statements from 2000 through the second quarter of 2012.  The tax 
liabilities, reportable under Internal Revenue Code Section 956, which provides that when a 
“controlled foreign corporation” guarantees the debt of its U.S. parent company, the amounts 
borrowed by the parent are, in effect, “deemed dividends” and taxable to the parent.  During the 
relevant period, OSG’s credit agreements contained a provision making its controlled foreign 
subsidiary, Overseas International Group, Inc. (“OIN”), and another subsidiary “jointly and 
severally” liable for OSG’s debt, thereby triggering Section 956 current tax liability for those 
amounts that OSG borrowed, and deferred tax liabilities for amounts not borrowed but available 
under the credit agreements.  From 2000 to the second quarter of 2012, OSG failed to record and 
report these federal income tax liabilities in various annual and quarterly reports and earnings 
releases filed with the Commission.  Certain of these nondisclosures constituted violations of 
Section 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act.   
       
      2.    During the relevant period, OSG failed to recognize its tax liability despite 
significant indicia that the structure of its credit agreements, in effect, made OIN a guarantor and 
could trigger tax consequences, including tax memos from outside counsel and communications 
with the banks during the negotiation phase of the credit agreements.  Despite these indicators, 
OSG failed to disclose the issue to its outside auditors and ascertain whether the credit 
agreements impacted its financial reporting.  Moreover, OSG had inadequate internal accounting 
controls over its accounting for income taxes and had deficient controls over the impact of the 
credit agreements on its financial reporting process.      
       
      3.    As a result of its misconduct, OSG restated its financial results for all annual 
reporting periods in fiscal years 2000 through 2011, as well as the results for the quarterly 
reporting periods in the first half of 2012.  For example in 2000, by failing to record the deferred 
tax liability related to the prospective drawdowns under the first credit agreement to contain the 
“jointly and severally” language, OSG understated the deferred federal tax income tax liabilities 
in its financial statements by $122.5 million, or approximately 10% of its total liabilities. The 
failure to record the related income tax expense resulted in OSG recognizing a profit that year 
when it would have otherwise recognized a loss. By 2011 the cumulative failure to record the 
current and deferred income tax liabilities arising from the Section 956 issue resulted in an 
understatement of OSG’s income tax liabilities by approximately $512 million, or 17% of its 
total liabilities. Had OSG recorded the related income tax provision in that period, its net loss 
                                                 
       1
           The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                                 2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 

would have increased by approximately 265%, from $193 million to $705 million.  In November 
2012, following the discovery of the issue, OSG filed for bankruptcy protection. 
        
     4.     Myles Robert Itkin (“Itkin”), the chief financial officer (“CFO”) for OSG and its 
foreign subsidiary during the relevant period, who participated in the negotiation of  and was the  
signator to OSG’s credit facilities, oversaw OSG’s financial reporting function, and became 
aware of significant red flags indicating tax consequences from the credit agreements, caused 
OSG’s Securities Act Section 17(a)(2) and (3) violations from 2011 through the second quarter 
of 2012 and caused the company’s reporting, books and records and internal accounting controls 
failures going back to 2009.  Itkin also negligently misled OSG’s auditor by representing that 
OSG had not received any written tax advice concerning income tax issues and signed false 
certifications under Sarbanes-Oxley for filings in 2011 and 2012.   
      
                                        R ESPONDENTS    
      
     5.    Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. (“OSG” or the “Company”), is a Delaware 
corporation incorporated in 1969, and its wholly owned subsidiaries own and operate a fleet of 
oceangoing vessels engaged primarily in the transportation of crude oil and petroleum products 
in the international and domestic markets.  OSG managed its international and domestic 
operations through its wholly owned subsidiaries, OIN, a Marshall Islands corporation, and OSG 
Bulk Ships, Inc. (“OBS”), a New York corporation, respectively.  OBS’s vessel-owning and 
vessel-leasing corporations conduct OSG’s US shipping operations, and OIN’s vessel-owning 
and vessel-leasing corporations conducted OSG’s international shipping operations.  OSG, OBS, 
and OIN were the key corporations of the OSG corporate group.  During the relevant time, OSG 
had a class of securities registered under Section 12(b) and a reporting obligation under Section 
13(a) of the Exchange Act.  In November of 2012, OSG and 180 subsidiaries filed for 
bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the US Bankruptcy Code in the US Bankruptcy Court 
for the District of Delaware (all of which proceedings were jointly administered under Case No. 
12-20000 (MFW)), and its shares were delisted.  In July of 2014 the bankruptcy court confirmed 
a plan of reorganization that provided for a rights offering sponsored by certain of OSG’s equity 
holders, pursuant to which they purchased shares in the reorganized Company.  In October 2014, 
OSG’s Class B common stock became listed on the NYSE MKT.  OSG’s Class A common stock 
became listed on the NYSE MKT in November 2015, and its listing was moved to the New York 
Stock Exchange in June 2016.  OSG’s Class A common stock is registered with the Commission 
pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12(b).  There are no outstanding shares of OSG’s Class B 
common stock.   
      
     6.    Myles R. Itkin (“Itkin”), age 68, was OSG’s Chief Financial Officer from June 
1995, to April 12, 2013, when he was terminated from the Company.  Itkin is not a CPA.  Itkin 
had primary responsibility overseeing OSG’s taxes, accounting, and financial statement 
preparation and reporting and participated in the negotiation of and was the signator to the credit 
agreements at issue.  He was also the senior vice president and CFO of the Company’s 
subsidiaries, OIN and OBS, and sat on the board of OIN.  As an OIN director and officer, Itkin 
made and implemented decisions concerning OIN’s assets, liabilities, transactions, including 
debt incurrence, and transfers, including distributions of assets to OSG or OBS.  Since October 
2006, Itkin has served as a director of Danaos Corporation, a Marshall Islands company, whose 

                                               3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 

securities trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “DAC,” and serves on its 
audit committee.  Itkin is not otherwise currently employed.  
 
                                             FACTS   
 
Background on Relevant Tax Provisions 
    
      7.       From 1987 to 2004, OSG was required to pay U.S. income taxes on current 
offshore shipping income of its foreign subsidiaries, including OIN, whether it was distributed or 
not.  However, after the passage of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the “Jobs Creation 
Act”), OSG was no longer required to pay taxes on undistributed foreign shipping income earned 
by its offshore subsidiaries or controlled foreign corporations (“CFC”) so long as the income 
remained offshore.  OSG, thus, could only make tax-free distributions of foreign shipping 
income up to the amount previously subject to income taxation that had not been distributed.   
Over time the amount of deferred taxes for undistributed foreign shipping income became quite 
substantial because OIN was the primary source of income for the Company. 
 
      8.       Under Sections 956(c) and (d) of Subpart F of the Internal Revenue Code 
(“Section 956”) when a foreign subsidiary guarantees the loans of a U.S. parent company, the 
untaxed “accumulated ‘earnings and profits’ of that subsidiary are deemed to have been distributed 
                                                                                 
to the U.S. parent company” in amounts equal to average quarterly loan balances.  Specifically, 
the deemed dividends in this scenario under the Code arise from  “investments in United States 
property” and includes types of property a CFC could purchase with its untaxed retained 
earnings to provide an economic benefit — the functional equivalent of a dividend — to its US 
parent corporation without having transferred title in such assets to its US parent corporation.   
Such property can include real assets in the United States, tangible or intangible, or financial 
assets, such as its US parent corporation’s equity, called “stock,” or debt, called an “obligation.”  
To capture circuitous attempts of economic benefit from the CFC to its US parent corporation, 
Section 956(d) expands the meaning of “obligation” to include a CFC’s guarantee of its US 
parent corporation’s debt obligations to a third-party lender.  Accordingly, Subpart F treats such 
earnings as if the CFC had distributed them as a distribution or dividend to its US parent 
corporation or as “deemed dividends.”  The parent company is therefore subject to United States 
federal income taxation on the amount of the deemed dividend (subject to certain offsets available 
to the company).   
    
OSG’s Pre-2000 Credit Facilities and Understating of Section 956 Tax Implications 
    
      9.       As early as 1990, OSG, which in some years did not generate significant cash-
inflows or profits, relied on large credit facilities with lending banks to sustain its operations.  
The facilities typically had credit limits in the hundreds of millions of dollars and terms of five or 
seven years.  When a credit facility period ended, the balance under the credit facility became 
due as a “balloon” payment.  Given the lengthy terms of the facilities and the extended 
negotiation period preceding a credit facility, OSG often had more than one revolving credit 
facility available at any given time. 
       

                                                4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 

     10.      By the late 1990s, OSG’s lenders, aware of OSG’s financial results, sought 
greater credit enhancement on the revolving credit facilities.  OSG’s downstream guarantees of 
loans made to its subsidiaries, OBS and OIN, were not optimal given that OSG’s income was 
limited to dividends from its subsidiaries and earnings on its securities investments.  Also, OSG 
was a significant borrower under the facilities.  The banks sought to obtain, as security, direct 
access to the significant current and retained earnings of OIN.  To obtain this direct access, the 
banks sought to make OIN a guarantor of payment on loans made to OSG and OBS under the 
facilities, using “joint and several” language that joined the entire facility balance into a single 
debt on which OIN would be obligated to pay.   With regard to the credit facilities, as early as 
1997, the income tax implications from OIN guaranteeing OSG’s debt was discussed among 
certain OSG management and resulted in a decision that OSG could not accept the language 
‘jointly and severally’ in a credit facility because of the possible adverse tax consequences.   
        
     11.      In 1997, OSG negotiated a credit facility specifically to avoid including a “joint 
and several” provision because it would make OIN, OSG’s foreign subsidiary, a guarantor of 
OSG’s loans under these credit facilities and trigger tax consequences under Section 956.  OSG’s 
credit facilities from 1990 through 1997 did not provide for such a guarantee, but only a 
“downstream guarantee,” meaning that OSG’s subsidiaries would not be required to pay OSG’s 
debt in the instance of OSG’s debt default.  
        
     12.      Consistent with this understanding, in connection with negotiating a $600 million 
credit facility in 1997, OSG specifically rejected an attempt by the lending banks to include a 
provision that OSG, OBS, and OIN be “jointly and severally liable” for all advances on the credit 
facility regardless of which of the corporations received the funds from the drawdowns.  OSG 
also rejected the lending banks’ request that all three corporations, OSG, OBS, and OIN, co-sign 
all promissory notes for loans made under the 1997 credit facility.   
 
     13.      In response, as reflected in draft credit facilities, OSG crossed out the provision 
that OSG, OIN, and OBS would be “jointly and severally” liable for any drawdown on the credit 
facility, and changed it to “each borrower severally but not jointly” being liable, meaning that 
OSG would be solely liable for its drawdowns on the 1997 credit agreement.  As understood by 
the then OSG treasurer, who negotiated approximately $10 billion in financing for OSG from 
1988 to 2001, OSG modified the “joint and several” language proposed by the banks because it 
could make OIN potentially responsible for the obligations of OSG under the credit facilities, 
which would trigger possible federal tax liability under Section 956.   
        
     14.      In connection with the proposed 1997 credit facility, OSG’s longtime outside 
counsel (“Outside Counsel”) also identified the potential tax consequences of the “joint and 
several” language in the 1997 credit facility.  In an August 13, 1997 fax from Outside Counsel to 
the lending bank, copying OSG’s then general counsel and controller, Outside Counsel 
specifically stated:  “If OSG International [OIN] were to pay or guarantee obligations of OSG or 
OSG Bulk [OBS], it could be argued that OSG is liable for income tax on previously 
undistributed, untaxed earnings of OSG International [OIN] and its subsidiaries.”   
 
     15.      In response to OSG’s objections, the lending bank ultimately acquiesced to 
OSG’s demands and the parties executed the 1997 $600 million credit facility without the “joint 

                                                5 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 

and several” language.  Pursuant to what OSG advocated, the 1997 credit facility made OSG the 
sole guarantor of amounts borrowed by OBS and OIN, and promissory notes executed under the 
1997 credit facilities were signed solely by OSG as the borrowing corporation.  As a result, the 
terms of the 1997 credit agreement did not trigger federal income tax consequences for OSG 
under Section 956.  
 
Deteriorating Financial Conditions of OSG and Post-2000 Credit facility 
     
OSG’s 2000 Credit facility    
 
     16.      By 1999, OSG’s financial condition had deteriorated, and OSG needed to raise 
capital.  In April 1999, one of OSG’s U.S. bank creditors downgraded OSG’s debt from BB3 to 
BB1, noting that the Company had “reported lower revenues and earnings during FY1998 and 
operating results show no signs of improving given the current poor fundamentals in the bulk 
ocean shipping industry.”  
 
     17.      In 1999, OSG and Itkin, who joined the company as CFO in 1995, started 
negotiating a new $300 to $400 million credit facility with two European banks.  Given OSG’s 
deteriorating financial condition, OSG’s United States bank arrangers were no longer willing to 
negotiate a new credit facility without enhanced credit protection through a “joint and several” 
liability provision requiring OIN and OBS to guarantee repayment of OSG’s borrowings.       
 
     18.      During this time, the European banks inserted the “joint and several” provision, 
which OSG, through Itkin, agreed to in a term sheet dated December 12, 1999.  As reflected in 
drafts of the 2000 credit facility, both OSG’s internal and external counsel tried to reject the 
provision.  In one draft, OSG’s then general counsel, crossed out the “joint and several” 
provision, writing “no” to the “joint and several” clause being “together” and noted in a 
comment to its then treasurer that OSG should reject the “joint and several” language because it 
involved “different accounting/tax treatment.”  In another draft, OSG’s then general counsel 
proposed the language “severally and not jointly” just as the Company had done in connection 
with the 1997 credit agreement.  The then general counsel made these notations out of concern 
that the “joint and several” language could create potential tax problems for OSG.   
 
     19.      OSG’s Outside Counsel also noted their concern in drafts of the proposed 
agreement that the “joint and several” provision would create an “upstream guarantee.”  In one 
draft, an attorney for Outside Counsel noted to the banks’ counsel, that “[a]s we discussed at the 
commitment letter stage we can't give legal, valid and binding opinion with respect to an 
‘upstream' guarantee.’”  The attorney for Outside Counsel, in fact, circled the “joint and several” 
language several times in the draft where it appeared and wrote “legal issue.”   
 
     20.      Although OSG had not entered into any prior credit facility with the “joint and 
several” provision, it accepted this structure in its 2000 credit facility.     
 
     21.      Itkin signed the credit agreement with the “joint and several” language for the 
2000 credit facility on behalf of OSG, OIN, and OBS. In a departure from prior practice, Itkin 
also co-signed a series of promissory notes on behalf of all three entities. 
 

                                                6 
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 

     22.      For all ensuing revolving credit facilities of OSG, the credit agreements included 
the “joint and several” provision, and OSG, OBS, and OIN co-signed promissory notes for the 
agreements.  The joint and several provision triggered tax consequences under Section 956, 
which OSG failed to report and record in its books and records.       
 
OSG’s 2006 Credit facility 
 
     23.      In 2005, OSG management began negotiating with banks in an effort to combine 
its previous credit facilities into one giant $1.5 billion credit facility.  As reflected in the drafts 
exchanged between OSG management and the banks, tax implications arising from a guarantee 
provision in the credit agreement were discussed among the parties.  In this regard, an early draft 
term sheet, which was shared with Itkin, reflect footnote comments from bank counsel in 
connection with the “guarantors” provision stating, “[d]iscuss tax implications of guarantees 
from non-US subsidiaries.” 
      
     24.      As part of these negotiations, the lending banks attempted to expand the scope of 
the guarantee provision beyond OIN and OBS and include all of OSG’s subsidiaries.  The draft 
term sheet, for example, stated that all of OSG’s “direct and indirect” subsidiaries would be 
“guarantors” of OSG’s debt.  OSG management, however, rejected this notion.  Instead, as 
reflected in a December 22, 2005 email from OSG’s then general counsel to Itkin and a new law 
firm that OSG had hired (“Outside Counsel #2”), OSG wanted to “limit subsidiary guarantors” to 
OIN and OBS only (the same structure of the 2000 credit agreement), as opposed to all of its 
subsidiaries.   
     
     25.      As a result of the negotiations, on February 9, 2006, OSG and the lending banks 
entered into a $1.5 billion credit facility, which left intact the provision from the 2000 credit 
facility that made OIN and OBS “jointly and severally liable” for OSG’s borrowings.   Itkin, 
again, signed on behalf of all three entities.  The joint and several provision triggered tax 
consequences under Section 956, which OSG failed to recognize or report and record in its books 
and records.    
 
Additional Economic Benefits from OIN to OSG Triggering Tax Consequences  
      
     26.      By the end of 2008, OSG  learned that it had exhausted its $548 million in 
“previously taxed income” (“PTI”), which up until this point operated as a tax shield from the 
income tax liability triggered by the credit agreements.   
      
     27.      By this time, Itkin understood that the PTI allowed OSG to receive  an economic 
benefit from OSG’s foreign subsidiary and  recognize taxable income—either in the form of a 
deemed dividend or direct dividend— only to the extent it exceeded such PTI, and that utilizing 
PTI in this way could reduce or eliminate PTI available in the future.  
      
     28.      In early 2008, OSG wanted to repatriate approximately $500 million in cash from 
OIN to OSG so that OSG could pay down certain debt.  OSG, through Itkin, asked Outside 
Counsel (the company’s longstanding counsel that advised on the 1997 and 2000 credit 
agreements) to prepare a memorandum concerning the tax impact of the proposed repatriation 

                                               7 
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 

and whether it made a difference whether it took the form of a distribution or loan by OIN to 
OSG.    
       
      29.      In response, Outside Counsel prepared a March 14, 2008 memorandum, directed 
to Itkin and the OSG Controller, advising that either a direct distribution, which would be a 
direct dividend, or a loan, which would be a deemed dividend, of $500 million from OIN to OSG 
would not give rise to taxable income to OSG to the extent that the amount was covered by 
OSG’s PTI.  The memo further noted that a repatriation of this magnitude would wipe out OSG’s 
PTI and reduce it to a zero balance, and the Company would no longer be able to shield tax 
liabilities resulting from future repatriations through PTI offsets.   
       
      30.      Rather than repatriating through a distribution or loan, OSG, under Itkin’s 
authorization, directed a net cash transfer of $607 million from OIN to OSG through numerous 
inter-company transfers.  In February 2009, OSG’s outside tax advisor discovered the $607 
million cash transfer in its yearly tax memo and informed the company that the cash transfer not 
only wiped out OSG’s PTI, but also resulted in an additional $53 million (the amount in excess 
of the PTI offset) that OSG was to include as part of its taxable gross income for 2008, which the 
Company then paid.       
       
      31.      Once OSG ‘s PTI was eliminated, OSG  no longer had the ability to offset OIN’s 
                                                                             2
earnings and profits includable in OSG’s taxes pursuant to Section 956(c).      At this point, based 
on outside counsel’s memo of March 14 2008, Itkin and other members of OSG management  
knew that a cash transfer in the form of an actual dividend or a loan in the form of a deemed 
dividend under Section 956(c) constituted economic benefits to OSG and would create taxable 
                3
income to OSG.     
       
      32.      In 2010, OSG and Itkin were presented with additional indicia that economic 
benefits, such as constructive dividends, from OIN to OSG trigger tax liabilities.  By October 
2010, in connection with a Department of Justice proceeding in which OSG was subject to a $37 
million criminal penalty and plead guilty to 33 criminal counts for certain of its ships discharging 
oil into the ocean, the IRS discovered that OIN had paid the OSG penalty.   As reflected in IRS 
Forms 5701 and 886-A, the IRS claimed that OIN’s payments of OSG’s debt constituted a 
constructive dividend, triggering tax liability.   
 
OSG’s Receipt of the 2011 Tax Memorandum 
 

                                                 
2
  It was only after 2008, when the PTI balance had been exhausted with no “automatic” replenishment that the loan 
amounts from credit agreements that were previously not included as gross income became taxable income to OSG 
with no offset.    
        
3
   In March   2010, OSG conducted both  a $300 million debt offering and a $159 million common stock offering 
pursuant to the Company’s previous shelf registration of the securities on Form S-3.  Both registration statements 
incorporated by reference OSG’s 2009 Form 10-K, which contained material misrepresentations and omissions.  
Also, during the period March 31, 2009 through the first two quarters of 2012, OSG sold securities to employees 
through Form S-8 stock offerings, and the Forms S-8 incorporated by reference the false statements OSG made in its 
relevant periodic filings with the Commission.  

                                                  8 
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

 

     33.      By April 2011, OSG was close to finalizing a new $900 million credit facility, 
called the Forward Start Credit facility (“FSF”), to refinance a balloon payment on the 2006 $1.8 
billion credit facility that would be due on February 8, 2013.  Under the FSF, OSG would be able 
to begin drawdowns on and after this due date.   
 
     34.      While reviewing a draft for the FSF, a tax attorney for longstanding Outside 
Counsel identified to Itkin and other members of OSG management that the “joint and several” 
liability provision in the draft could create potential Section 956(c) and (d) income tax liabilities 
for OSG and asked whether the provision had been included in prior credit facilities.  Outside 
Counsel further noted that the provision could be interpreted as an “upstream guarantee” by OIN 
of OSG’s indebtedness, which could trigger a 956 liability. 
 
     35.      After confirming to Outside Counsel that the “joint and several” provision had 
been included in the 2006 credit facility, Itkin, among other OSG management, requested that 
Outside Counsel analyze the Section 956 tax implications arising from the “joint and several” 
provision in the  2000 through 2006 credit agreements.   
      
     36.      As Outside Counsel further examined the issue, the firm realized that, under a tax 
law analysis, the IRS could interpret the “joint and several” liability provision, if enforceable, in 
the credit facilities as triggering tax liabilities under Section 956(c) and (d).  Outside Counsel 
then noted that the “joint and several” provision in the credit agreements were arguably 
ambiguous and analyzed the issue from the standpoint of determining the original intent of the 
parties concerning that provision.  In this regard, Outside Counsel advised OSG and Itkin that if 
the Company did not intend for OIN to be a guarantor of OSG’s loans and thus trigger tax 
consequences, then OSG could argue under commercial law doctrines that the provision should 
be set aside and rendered unenforceable by the IRS in a court proceeding.   
      
     37.      In determining the intent of the parties, Outside Counsel repeatedly asked OSG 
for contemporaneous documents that would shed light on the original intent of the parties, 
including draft term sheets and communications surrounding the 2000 and 2006 credit facilities, 
but were told by certain OSG management that no documents existed.   
      
     38.      Despite receiving at least two documents that discussed subsidiary guarantees in 
connection with the 2006 credit facilities (the December 2005 memo and the draft term sheet 
referencing “tax implications of guarantees from non-US subsidiaries”) during the time that 
Outside Counsel #2 advised OSG, OSG management and Itkin did not disclose the documents to 
Outside Counsel.  Itkin also did not disclose that he had signed promissory notes on behalf of all 
three entities in connection with the 2000 and 2006 credit facilities.   
      
     39.      Outside Counsel also requested permission to reach out to individuals who were 
involved in the earlier negotiations or term sheet review process for the earlier credit facilities, 
but Itkin and other members of OSG management did not authorize Outside Counsel to contact 
these individuals.   
      
     40.      In May 2011, Outside Counsel memorialized its tax analysis in a memorandum to 
OSG senior management, including Itkin, providing an IRS tax analysis and a commercial law 

                                                9 
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

 

analysis—to the question of whether the “joint and several” provisions in the 2006 credit facility 
created taxable income to OSG.  With respect to the tax analysis, the memorandum concluded 
that there was a “significant risk” that the IRS would construe the “joint and several” provision, 
if enforceable, as a guarantee under the Internal Revenue Code, triggering significant unpaid tax 
liabilities under Section 956.  Under the commercial law analysis, the memorandum stated that if 
OSG did not intend OIN to be a guarantor under the credit facilities, OSG “should” prevail in a 
litigated proceeding by the IRS against OSG for unpaid tax liabilities under Section 956, and that 
a court should not enforce “joint and several” liability against OIN.  Outside Counsel’s factual 
foundation of its commercial law analysis was premised, among other factors, on the 
representations of Itkin and OSG management that OSG did not intend to make OIN a guarantor 
of OSG’s loans and thus trigger tax consequences and the apparent absence of relevant 
documents on the issue of intent. 
      
     41.      Notwithstanding the fact that the May 2011 memo noted that if the “joint and 
several” provision made OIN a co-borrower or co-obligor with OSG and OBS, then it “would 
create a significant risk that a substantial portion of OIN’s deferred earnings would be taxable to 
OSG, and were taxable to OSG” as a consequence the application of Section 956(c) and (d) to 
the credit agreements, OSG and Itkin failed to disclose the memo to the Company’s outside 
auditor, its internal auditor, or its board of directors.   
      
     42.      On February 29, 2012, and again in August 2012, Itkin signed management 
representation letters for the Company’s outside auditor confirming that the Company had 
provided the auditor with all written tax advice, even though Itkin  and the Company had 
obtained a May 2011 tax memorandum from Outside Counsel, which he had not provided to the 
auditor.   
      
     43.      OSG continued to not recognize any tax liabilities under Section 956 from its 
                                                                        
drawdowns on loans that its foreign subsidiary, OIN, had guaranteed.     
 
Events Leading Up to OSG’s Board of Directors Discovering the Company’s Tax Liabilities  
 
     44.      By February 2012, while OSG was trying to convince the lending banks to 
expand the credit limit of the FSF, OSG’s management identified the tax consequences of 
making OIN “jointly and severally” liable for OSG’s loans and discussed the issue with the 
lending banks.   
      
     45.      An internal memo by a loan officer of one of OSG’s key lenders to other bank 
officials, dated February 12, 2012, memorialized subjects that were discussed during a recent 
meeting between the banks, Itkin, and OSG’s then CEO.  The memo noted that OSG’s “preferred 
recapitalization continues to be to obtain $350mm-$400mm of additional capital for both 
survival and growth.”  The memo further noted that the “current FSF is structured with OSG  
Inc., OSG International Inc., and OSG Bulk Ships, Inc. as “joint and several” borrowers.  The 
deemed dividend classification would mean such a distribution or benefit would be subject to 
U.S. corporate income tax of 35% without repatriation.”  The memo specifically highlighted 
Section 956 and highlighted that “a tax issue arises if the FSF is granted security due to section 
956 of the Internal Revenue Code.” 

                                               10 
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

 

      
     46.      By May 2012, Itkin had a lead role in negotiating with lending banks in order to 
secure additional financing for OSG.  The Company’s presentation materials to banks, for 
example, referenced that “Myles Itkin, OSG's CFO, will discuss the Company's thoughts on both 
amending certain terms of the FSF plus launching a new secured debt credit facility at Overseas 
International, Inc. that will assist the Company with enhancing its liquidity position and 
maintaining its leading position in the tanker industry.”   
      
     47.      By this time, OSG and Itkin were presented with further evidence that OIN’s 
guarantee of OSG’s loans under credit facilities triggered tax consequences for OSG.  Attached 
to an email dated May 25, 2012, from OSG’s vice president of corporate development and 
finance to Itkin, among others at OSG, and to various bankers, was an “OSG Presentation to 
Lenders” concerning a meeting to be held with the FSF lenders to discuss the presentation.  In 
the presentation, OSG highlighted precisely the Section 956(c) and (d) tax consequences 
identified in the May 2011 memo from Outside counsel and near-certain tax obligations for the 
Company.  Specifically, OSG’s presentation pointed out:   
        
       “Due to OIN’s status as a controlled foreign corporation and OSG’s status as a “United 
       States shareholder” of OIN, under the U.S. tax code, certain actions by OIN (including 
       guaranteeing or providing security for OSG’s outstanding debt) will trigger immediate 
       taxable income for OSG with respect to some of all of the $2.2 billion in earnings that 
       have not yet been subject to U.S. federal income taxation.  This is true even without an 
       actual distribution of cash by OIN to OSG….   
        
       “If OIN were to lend $100 million to OSG, $100 million of OIN’s currently untaxed 
       earnings ($2.2 billion) would be accelerated and would produce taxable income for the 
       U.S. 
        
       “If OIN guarantees OSG’s obligations on the $900 million Forward Start 
       Agreement, it would create $900 million of taxable income and approximately 
       $300 million of cash taxes for OSG.”   
        
       “The assets of a controlled foreign corporation serve at any time, even though 
       indirectly, as security for the performance of an obligation of its U.S. shareholder.  
       The controlled foreign corporation will be considered a pledgor or guarantor of 
       that obligation.  Income tax inclusion would equal the amount of the obligation 
       and not the value of CFC’s pledged assets.”  (Underscore in original.) 
        
     48.      Despite acknowledging to its prospective bankers the tax consequences from 
OIN’s guarantees of OSG’s drawdowns through the “joint and several” provision  in any future 
FSF  and the tax consequences under Section 956 under prior credit facilities, OSG and Itkin did 
not disclose the “joint and several” issue to the Company’s outside auditor, nor did OSG 
recognize any tax liability arising from prior credit facilities in OSG’s publicly filed financial 
statements. 
      

                                               11 
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

 

     49.      By September 2012, OSG was still unable to secure the financing it needed 
through the FSF and was faced with a massive debt obligation of $1.49 billion from the 2006 
credit facility that was due by February 8, 2013.   
      
     50.      Left with no other choice and faced with the possibility of defaulting on its debt 
obligations, OSG management, including Itkin, finally disclosed the Section 956 issue to OSG's 
board of directors during a meeting held on September 20, 2012.  During the meeting, which was 
attended by OSG management, including Itkin, OSG's financial advisor, and attorneys from 
Outside Counsel, OSG's financial advisor made a presentation to the board on a potential 
bankruptcy filing by the Company.   That presentation disclosed that OSG's potential Section 
956 past-due tax liabilities (which the Company had not yet recognized), could result in a 
bankruptcy filing if recognized.  As one board member understood it, such a situation would 
impair the banks' ability to recover on OSG's debt under the credit facilities because the IRS 
would stand in front of the banks as a secured creditor in bankruptcy and, thus, the banks may be 
more willing to negotiate the FSF on more favorable terms and provide funding.   
 
     51.      OSG’s board member expressed surprise that management, including Itkin, had 
not disclosed the Section 956 tax liability issue to the board before.  Itkin told the board member 
at the meeting that OSG was advised by Outside Counsel that the issue need not be disclosed to 
the board, Audit Committee or OSG’s auditors—advice that Outside Counsel confirmed at the 
meeting—and, as such, the inner circle of people who knew about this issue had been kept small.  
The board member also specifically asked to speak with OSG management who were involved in 
the negotiations of the earlier credit facilities, including the 2000 agreement that first included 
the joint and several provision, but was told  that “[t]hose parties are no longer in this room, 
meaning former executives of the company.”  Itkin, however, did not disclose that he was 
involved in the negotiations for the 2000 credit facility or that he had signed the promissory 
notes on behalf of OSG, OIN and OBS.   
      
     52.      The board member was also troubled by the fact that OSG management had failed 
to disclose the 956 issue to the Company’s outside auditor, but OSG management, along with 
Outside Counsel, continued to hold the view that such disclosure was not needed.  The board 
member urged OSG management to disclose immediately the Section 956 issue to OSG’s 
outside auditor and bring in an independent outside law firm to investigate the full scope of the 
issue.  OSG did not immediately disclose the Section 956 issue, but the board scheduled a 
follow-up meeting for October 4 to more fully discuss the issue with its Outside Counsel before 
making any disclosure.    
      
     53.      Following the board meeting, the board member pleaded with his fellow board 
members to engage OSG’s outside auditors and an independent law firm immediately.  On 
September 25, 2012, the board member sent a letter to OSG’s chairman of the board and audit 
committee insisting that the tax issue be presented to OSG’s outside audit firm and another 
independent law firm be retained to provide “input on any financial statement implications.” 
Two days later, on September 27, 2012, the board member submitted a resignation letter.  The 
board member believed that his resignation would, in effect, force OSG to immediately disclose 
the Section 956 issue to OSG’s outside auditor because the Company was required to publicly 

                                              12 
 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

 

disclose the board member’s resignation.  As anticipated, on October 3, 2012, OSG filed a Form 
8-K announcing the board member’s resignation and attaching his letter.  
       
      54.      The resignation led to a cascade of events, including immediate disclosure to 
OSG’s outside auditor, OSG’s retention of an independent law firm, and the subsequent 
reporting that OSG had approximately $463 million in unpaid taxes arising from the Company’s 
Section 956 liabilities.  As a result, OSG restated its financial statements from 2000 through the 
second quarter of 2012 and ultimately filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in November 2012.  The 
Section 956 issue resulted in OSG materially understating its cumulative deferred tax liability 
and/or current tax liability by the following material amounts and percentages of total liabilities 
per year: 
 
       $123M in 2000 (10%)            $519M in 2006 (20%)  
       $159M in 2001 (12%)            $558M in 2007 (20%) 
       $146M in 2002 (10%)            $513M in 2008 (20%) 
       $169M in 2003 (14%)            $476M in 2009 (17%) 
       $173M in 2004 (12%)            $464M in 2010 (16%) 
       $187M in 2005 (11%)            $512M in 2011 (17%) 
 
      55.      In a Form 8-K filed on December 19, 2013, the Company reported that the IRS 
had amended and reduced its claim for past taxes from about $463 million to approximately 
$264 million.  OSG subsequently paid this latter amount to the IRS. 
 
OSG’S Improper Analyses Under ASC 740 
 
OSG’s Failure to Recognize Deferred Tax Liabilities Under Accounting Principles Board 
Statement 23 (“APB 23”)                                                                     
 
      56.      The Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (“FASB”) Accounting Standards 
Codification (“ASC”) 740-30-25-3, formerly Accounting Principles Board Statement No. 23 
(“APB 23”), paragraph 10, sets forth an accounting presumption that all undistributed earnings 
                                                                 4
of a subsidiary will eventually be transferred to the parent entity.  This presumption results in a 
temporary difference between when the parent entity recognizes the subsidiary’s earnings for 
accounting purposes (when it’s earned) and for tax purposes (when it’s distributed).  For 
example, OSG recognized its foreign source income when earned for financial reporting, but 
after the Jobs Creation Act it deferred recognizing its foreign source income for tax reporting 
because the IRS rules allowed for deferred taxation until the income was repatriated.  To account 
for this temporary difference, the parent is required to record a deferred tax liability and 
corresponding expense.  Pursuant to ASC 740-30-25-17, the presumption in ASC 740-30-25-3 
can be overcome, however, and no temporary difference recorded, if sufficient evidence shows 
that the subsidiary has invested or will invest the undistributed earnings indefinitely. In general, 

                                                 
4
  References are to the ASC  for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009.  For prior periods, the 
authoritative literature in this area, including Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 109 (“SFAS 109 
”), was substantially similar.  SFAS 109, as supplemented by FIN 48 in 2007, established the accrual basis of 
accounting for income tax liabilities and expenses and explains temporary differences that gave rise to the financial 
statement misstatements discussed below. 

                                                13 
 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

 

the parent must show it has both the intent and the ability to indefinitely reinvest these earnings 
in order to overcome the presumption. 
      
     57.      From 2000 to the second quarter of 2012, OSG inappropriately relied upon this 
exception pursuant to ASC 740-30-25-17, and thus avoided recognizing deferred tax liabilities 
on untaxed earnings and profits of its CFC, OIN, up to the maximum borrowing capacity of the 
agreements.  Because the “joint and several” language created the possibility of deemed 
repatriations under Section 956, OSG did not have the ability to indefinitely reinvest all of OIN’s 
earnings and profits. 
      
     58.      In each of its Forms 10-K for 2000 to 2011, OSG reported the amount of its 
foreign shipping companies’ untaxed and undistributed earnings, as well as a statement that no 
provision for U.S. income taxes was required in relation to these earnings because the earnings 
would be reinvested indefinitely.  For example, OSG’s 2009 Form 10-K, filed on March 1, 2010, 
specifically, Note L (Taxes) to the financial statements contained the assertion that was used in 
2010 and 2011: 
 
       The Company intends to permanently reinvest these earnings [OIN’s untaxed past 
       earnings], as well as the undistributed income of its foreign companies accumulated 
       through December 31, 1986, in foreign operations.  Accordingly, no provision for U.S. 
       income taxes on the shipping income of its foreign subsidiaries was required in the three 
       years ended December 31, 2009 and no provision for U.S. income taxes on the 
       undistributed income of the foreign shipping companies accumulated through December 
       31, 1986 was required at December 31, 2009. 
        
     59.      These disclosures were false because OSG was in fact required to provide for 
deferred U.S. income taxes in each of these years due to the “joint and several” language in the 
credit facilities. During this period, the amount of deferred income taxes OSG failed to report 
grew from $165 million in 2000 to $525 million by the second quarter of 2012.  
      
     60.      OSG restated its assertion under ASC 740-30-25-17 in its 2013 financials  
statements “to the extent these earnings could be deemed repatriated as a result of OIN’s joint 
and several liability.” 
 
OSG’s Failure to Disclose, Analyze, and Document Requirements of ASC 740-10-25-5 
        
     61.      From 2000 through early 2011, OSG created no documentation about the tax 
consequences of “joint and several” language despite the significant discussion that took place 
surrounding the issue in connection with both the 1997 and 2000 credit facilities.  During this 
period, OSG also did not obtain any written tax or attorney opinion about the tax implications of 
the “joint and several” language.  In fact, there was no acknowledgement of a tax position by 
OSG, even though the decision to exclude from OSG’s gross income the amounts borrowed by 
OSG under the credit facilities, in effect, created a “tax position.”   
                                                         
     62.      OSG routinely documented the Company’s “uncertain tax positions” and 
understood the requirements of the accounting principle that required analysis under ASC 740-

                                               14 
 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

 

        5
10-25-5.    For example, on January 8, 2007, OSG’s outside tax adviser sent the Company a 
memo asking OSG “to confirm that none of the CFC’s [sic] made an investment or deemed 
investment in U.S. property resulting in a deemed dividend under Section 956.”  It continued: 
“Section 956(d) provides that for purposes of Section 956(a), a CFC shall be considered as 
holding an obligation of a U.S. person if such CFC is a pledgor or guarantor of such obligation.”   
       
      63.      In May 2011, despite OSG receiving Outside Counsel’s tax memo, the Company 
failed to recognize the “joint and several” provision in the 2006 credit facility as creating an 
uncertain tax position.  However, OSG failed to perform any analysis concerning the Company’s 
uncertain tax position or record any related reserve. 
       
                                                 * * * * * * 
       
      64.      OSG, with Itkin as the CFO, maintained deficient or non-existent internal 
accounting controls, including processes to identify the tax consequences, if any, of 
intercompany transactions between OSG and its foreign subsidiary, OIN.  OSG and Itkin 
understood that the terms of the credit agreements for hundreds of millions of dollars were 
complex and its key terms had business, legal, and often tax significance, but agreed to the joint-
and-several provision.  Further, OSG did not have an adequate process in place to identify and 
evaluate its income tax liabilities pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code stemming from OSG’s 
relationship with OIN and the related effects those liabilities would have when accounting for 
income taxes in its financial statements.  Specifically, OSG had no controls to identify the 
interplay between the credit agreement structures, Sections 956(c) and (d), and FIN 48. OSG’s 
head of taxation and financial reporting who reported to Itkin who had some understanding of 
the IRS Code, did not understand Section 956 and was not involved in the underlying 
negotiations of the credit agreements.  Despite the limitations of its internal knowledge in 
negotiating and accounting for these revolving credit agreements--critical to OSG’s liquidity—
OSG and Itkin failed to implement proper internal accounting controls designed to ensure that 
OSG properly reported its tax liabilities. 
       
                                            Violations 
 
      65.      Section 17(a)(2) prohibits any person from directly or indirectly obtaining money 
or property in the offer or sale of securities by means of any untrue statement of a material fact 
or any omission to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in light 
of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and Section 17(a)(3) prohibits 
any person from directly or indirectly engaging in any transaction, practice, or course of business 
which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon the purchaser in the offer or sale of 

                                                 
5
  ASC 740-10-25-5 requires businesses to analyze uncertain income tax positions to determine whether 
the positions are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination. Companies are only permitted to 
recognize the associated benefits from an income tax position to the extent it believes it is more likely 
than not entitled to the benefits. As a result of this analysis, the amount of benefit recognized for financial 
reporting purposes may differ from the benefit taken for tax purposes. This difference should be 
recognized as a liability in the company’s balance sheet and disclosed in the footnotes.  For 
implementation guidance, refer to ASC 740-10-55-3.   
          

                                                15 
 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

 

securities.     
       
      66.      Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to file such periodic and other 
reports as the Commission may prescribe and in conformity with such rules as the Commission 
may promulgate.  Exchange Act Rules 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 require the filing of annual, 
current, and quarterly reports, respectively.  In addition to the information expressly required to 
be included in such reports, Rule 12b-20 of the Exchange Act requires issuers to add such further 
material information, if any, as may be necessary to make the required statements, in the light of 
the circumstances under which they are made not misleading.  “The reporting provisions of the 
Exchange Act are clear and unequivocal, and they are satisfied only by the filing of complete, 
accurate, and timely reports.”  SEC v. Savoy Industries, 587 F.2d 1149, 1165 (D.C. Cir. 1978) 
(citing SEC v. IMC Int’1, Inc., 384 F. Supp. 889, 893 (N.D. Tex. 1974)).  A violation of the 
reporting provisions is established if a report is shown to contain materially false or misleading 
information.  SEC v. Kalvex, Inc., 425 F. Supp. 310, 316 (S.D.N.Y. 1975). 
       
      67.      Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to “make and keep 
books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the issuer.”  Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange 
Act requires issuers to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to 
provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the 
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. 
       
      68.      As a result of the conduct described above, OSG violated Securities Act Sections 
17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) and Exchange Act Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) and Rules 
12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder. 
       
      69.      To establish that a respondent caused a violation of the securities laws, the 
Commission must show that: (1) a primary violation occurred; (2) an act or omission by the 
respondent was a cause of the violation; and (3) the respondent knew or should have known that 
his or her conduct would contribute to the violation.  Robert M. Fuller, 56 S.E.C. 976, 984 
(2003), pet. denied, No. 03-1334 (D.C. Cir. 2004). 
       
      70.      Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1 prohibits any person from directly or indirectly 
falsifying, or causing to be falsified, any book, record, or account subject to Exchange Act 
Section 13(b)(2)(A).  No showing of scienter is required to establish a violation of Rules 13b2-1 
and 13b2-2 (described below).  World-Wide Coin Investments, 567 F. Supp. 724, 749 (N.D. Ga. 
1983).  
       
      71.      Exchange Act Rule 13b2-2(a) prohibits an officer or director of an issuer from 
making materially false statements or omissions to an accountant in connection with an audit or 
review of the issuer’s financial statements.  In addition, Rule 13b2-2(b) prohibits an officer or 
director of an issuer from taking actions to mislead an accountant engaged in the performance of 
an audit if that person knew or should have known that such action could render the issuer’s 
financial statements materially misleading. 
       
      72.      Exchange Act Rule 13a-14, among other things, requires a principal financial 

                                               16 
 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

 

officer to certify in each quarterly and annual report filed or submitted under Exchange Act 
Section 13(a) that he or she has reviewed the report and to certify that he or she had designed 
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial 
reporting to be designed under [their] supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes 
in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. 
      
     73.      Itkin, in his role as CFO of OSG, had responsibility for the financial and 
accounting operations of the company, served on the board of directors for OIN and OBS, 
negotiated the credit agreements, signed promissory notes on behalf of all three entities and 
directed the draw down of advances on behalf of OSG under the revolving credit facilities.   In 
carrying out these actions, Itkin had indicated that the credit agreements triggered tax 
consequences but did not take steps to make sure OSG was recognizing and report tax liabilities 
arising from the credit agreements.  Itkin also was negligent in allowing internal accounting 
controls deficiencies at the company during the relevant period including processes to identify 
the tax consequences of intercompany transactions between OSG and its foreign subsidiary, 
OIN.   Further, Itkin signed management representation letters for the Company’s outside auditor 
confirming that the Company had provided the auditor with all written tax advice, even though 
Itkin knew that the Company had obtained a May 2011 tax memorandum from Outside Counsel, 
which he had not provided to the outside auditor.   
      
     74.      Accordingly, Itkin was a cause of the company’s negligence-based fraud 
violations under Securities Act Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) from 2011 through the second quarter 
of 2012.  By engaging in the foregoing conduct, from 2009 through the second quarter of 2012, 
Itkin also directly violated Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1 by causing to be falsified various books 
and records of the company and acted as a cause of the company’s reporting, internal accounting 
controls, books and records, and related rule violations under Exchange Act 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 
and 13(b)(2)(B) and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13.  During the same period, Itkin 
violated Exchange Act Rule 13b2-2(a)-(b) by his failure to disclose the May 2011 tax 
memorandum or its analysis to OSG’s outside auditor and Exchange Act Rule 13a-14 when he 
signed false certifications as the CFO of OSG that were included in OSG’s Forms 10-Q and 
Forms 10-K filed with the Commission.     
 
                                           Findings 
 
     75.      Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent OSG violated 
Securities Act Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a) (3), Exchange Act Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 
13(b)(2)(B), and Exchange Act Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13. 
 
     76.      Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent Itkin violated 
Exchange Act Rules 13b2-1, 13b2-2, and 13a-14, and caused OSG’s violations of Securities Act 
Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3), Exchange Act Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B), and 
Exchange Act Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13. 
 
                                              IV. 
 

                                               17 
 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

 

     In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents OSG and Itkins’ Offers. 
 
      In determining to accept OSG’s Offer, the Commission considered OSG’s cooperation 
afforded to the Commission staff, including OSG’s implementation of remedial measures and 
improvements to internal accounting controls over its tax reporting function and changes to the 
senior management and directors of OSG since 2012. 
 
     Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
     A.      Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and Section 21C of the Exchange 
Act, Respondents OSG and Itkin cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
any future violations of Securities Act Section 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3), and Exchange Act Sections  
13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B) and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder, and 
Itkin cease and desist from committing or causing any violations or any future violations of 
Exchange Act Rules 13a-14, 13b2-1, and 13b2-2. 
 
     B.      Respondent OSG shall, subject to the approval of the bankruptcy court in the 
above-described bankruptcy proceedings, within ten (10) days of such approval and entry of a 
final order by the bankruptcy court, pay a civil money penalty of $5,000,000 to the Securities 
and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject 
to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall 
accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717. 
        
     C.      Respondent Itkin shall, within ten (10) days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil 
money penalty of $75,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  If timely payment is not 
made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717. 
        
     D.      Respondents’ payments must be made in one of the following three ways: 
 
                      1.  Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, 
                      which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon 
                      request; 
 
                      2.  Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via 
                      Pay.gov through the SEC website at 
                      http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofin.htm; or 
                       
                      3.  Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or 
                      United States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and 
                      Exchange Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to: 
                   
                  Enterprise Services Center 
                  Accounts Receivable Branch 
                  HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 

                                              18 
 
---------------------Page 19---------------------

 

                   6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                   Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
        Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
 OSG and Itkin as a Respondents in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; 
 a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Gerald W. Hodgkins, 
 Associate Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F 
 Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-5720. 
 
     E.    Amounts paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be treated as 
penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To preserve the 
deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that in any Related Investor Action, it 
shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any award of 
compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondents’ payment of a civil penalty in 
this action (“Penalty Offset”).  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty 
Offset, Respondents agree that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting the 
Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the Penalty 
Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be deemed an 
additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty 
imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a 
private damages action brought against Respondents by or on behalf of one or more investors 
based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this 
proceeding.  
 
     By the Commission. 
 
 
                                               Brent J. Fields  
                                               Secretary 

                                               19 
 
