---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                      Before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933  
Release No.  8988 / December 11, 2008 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 59084 / December 11, 2008 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2909 / December 11, 2008 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13307 
 
In the Matter of                                ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
                                                 DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT 
SCOR Holding (Switzerland) Ltd.,                TO SECTION 8A OF THE 
formerly known as Converium Holding AG,         SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 AND 
                                                 SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
Respondent.                                     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING 
                                                FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A 
                                                CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER  
 
                                            
                                          I. 
                                          
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the 
Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (“Exchange Act”) against SCOR Holding (Switzerland) Ltd., formerly known as 
Converium Holding AG (“Converium” or “Respondent”). 1
                                                       
                                            
                                          II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
                                                 
1
      All of the conduct that gave rise to this proceeding took place prior to Converium being 
acquired by SCOR SE, the parent company of SCOR Holding (Switzerland) Ltd.  The conduct 
described in this Order occurred prior to October 2005.  The tender offer by SCOR SE for all 
publicly-held shares of Converium was consummated on August 8, 2007, at which time 
Converium became a subsidiary of SCOR SE.  In September 2007, Converium was renamed 
SCOR Holding (Switzerland) Ltd. 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting 
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 
21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist 
Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds2
                                                                                   that: 
 
SUMMARY 

       1.      Converium engaged in a fraudulent scheme to improperly inflate its financial 
performance through the use of finite reinsurance transactions.  The scheme began in 1999, when 
Converium was a business unit of Zurich Financial Services (“Zurich”), operating under the 
name Zurich Re.  Zurich developed three reinsurance transactions for the purpose of obtaining 
the financial benefits of reinsurance accounting.  However, in order for a company to obtain the 
benefits of reinsurance accounting, the reinsurance transaction must transfer risk.  Here, Zurich 
designed the transactions to make it appear that risk was transferred to third-party reinsurers, 
when, in fact, no risk had been transferred outside of Zurich-owned entities.  For two of the 
transactions at issue, Zurich ceded risk to third-party reinsurers, but took it back through 
reinsurance agreements – known as retrocessions – with another Zurich entity.  For the third 
transaction, Zurich ceded the risk to a third-party reinsurer but simultaneously entered into an 
undisclosed side agreement with the reinsurer pursuant to which Zurich agreed to hold the 
reinsurer harmless for any losses the reinsurer realized under the reinsurance contracts.  Because 
the ultimate risk under the reinsurance contracts remained with Zurich, these transactions should 
not have been accounted for as reinsurance.   

       2.      In March 2001, Zurich announced its intent to spin off its assumed reinsurance 
business in an initial public offering.  Zurich then created Converium, which assumed the rights 
and obligations of Zurich’s assumed reinsurance business.  On December 11, 2001, Converium 
conducted its IPO.  As a result of the fraudulent finite reinsurance transactions and the improper 
accounting treatment they received, Converium’s IPO documents, including the Form  F-1 it 
filed with the Commission, were materially misleading.  Among other things, Converium 
understated its reported loss before taxes by approximately $100 million (67%) in 2000 and by 
approximately $3 million (1%) in 2001.  In addition, for certain periods, the transactions had the 
effect of artificially decreasing Converium’s reported loss ratios for certain reporting segments – 
the ratio between losses paid by an insurer and premiums earned that is frequently cited by 
analysts as a key performance metric for insurance companies.   

       3.      Zurich’s and Converium’s fraud had a significant impact on investors who 
purchased shares in the IPO.  Through the IPO, which was the largest reinsurance IPO in history, 
                                                 
2
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
 

                                                2
---------------------Page 3---------------------

Zurich raised significantly more than it would have raised had Zurich and Converium not each 
engaged in fraud.   

       4.     Following the IPO, Converium continued the fraudulent scheme.  Converium 
entered into two additional reinsurance agreements for which risk transfer was negated by 
undisclosed side agreements.  Converium also entered into transactions to reimburse the 
reinsurer that Zurich had agreed to indemnify in a pre-IPO side agreement.  In 2003, Converium 
took affirmative steps to conceal the fraud from the Financial Services Authority of the United 
Kingdom.   

       5.     On November 4, 2005, Converium announced its intention to restate prior period 
financial statements and, on December 19, 2005, disclosed that it had incorrectly accounted for a 
number of transactions as reinsurance.  On March 1, 2006, Converium filed with the 
Commission an amended Form 20-F which contained restated financial statements for the years 
ended December 31, 1998 through December 31, 2004 (the “Restatement”).  

       6.     As a result of the foregoing conduct, Converium violated Section 17(a) of the 
Securities Act, and Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and 
Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, and 13a-1 thereunder.   
 
RESPONDENT  
 
       7.     Converium, now known as SCOR Holding (Switzerland) Ltd., is a corporation 
organized under the laws of Switzerland.  Converium is a global reinsurance company that offers 
property, casualty, life and non-life reinsurance products.  Zurich formed Converium in 2001 by 
transferring the rights and liabilities of the reinsurance businesses that made up Zurich’s assumed 
reinsurance business, which operated under the name Zurich Re.  Converium began operations 
under the Converium brand name on or around October 1, 2001.  From that time, until December 
11, 2001, Converium operated as a wholly owned subsidiary of Zurich.  In December 2001 and 
January 2002, pursuant to the Registration Statement and Prospectus, Zurich sold 40 million 
shares of Converium in the form of shares and American Depository Shares (“ADSs”), 
representing its entire stake in Converium, for proceeds of approximately $1.9 billion.  From 
December 11, 2001 until August 8, 2007, Converium was an independent publicly-traded 
company.  In August 2007, SCOR SE, a French reinsurer acquired Converium.  In August 2007 
SCOR held 96.23% of Converium’s shares following the completion of a tender offer, and 
Converium became a subsidiary of SCOR.  Converium’s name was changed to SCOR Holding 
(Switzerland) Ltd. in September 2007.  Between December 11, 2001 and January 7, 2008, 
Converium’s common stock and ADSs were registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 
12(b) of the Exchange Act.  On January 7, 2008, Converium shares and ADSs were delisted 
from the New York Stock Exchange.  On May 23, 2008, SCOR  (the parent company) 
announced that the remaining publicly held shares of SCOR Holding (Sw itzerland) Ltd.’s shares 
had been cancelled and that the shares would be delisted from the SWX Swiss Exchange on May 
30, 2008, with May 29, 2008 as the last day of trading.  In 2007, SCOR delisted its own ADSs 
from the New York Stock Exchange and terminated the registration of its securities under the 
Exchange Act.  SCOR’s ADSs currently trade on the pink sheets under the symbol SCRYY and 
its common stock trades on the Euronext under the symbol SCR and on the SWX Swiss 
Exchange.   

                                              3
---------------------Page 4---------------------

OTHER RELEVANT PERSONS AND ENTITIES 
 
       8.     Zurich is a corporation organized under the laws of Switzerland with its principal 
place of business in Zurich, Switzerland.  Prior to Converium’s IPO, Zurich restructured its 
reinsurance operations and transferred substantially all of the reinsurance business operated 
under Zurich Re to Converium.   
        
       9.     Inter-Ocean Reinsurance Company, Ltd. (“Inter-Ocean”) is a Bermuda 
corporation with its principal corporate offices in Bermuda.  Inter-Ocean is a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of Inter-Ocean Holdings, Inc., which was formed in 1990 as a joint venture between 
ten reinsurers.  In 1998, Zurich acquired a 9.9% interest in Inter-Ocean effective at the end of 
that year.  Prior to Converium’s IPO, Zurich transferred its 9.9% interest in Inter-Ocean to 
Converium.  
 
Reinsurance Accounting Principles 
 
       10.     In basic terms, reinsurance is insurance for insurers.  Reinsurance is the transfer 
of the insurance risk by the primary insurer to a second insurance carrier, called the reinsurer, in 
exchange for a payment or premium.   
 
       11.     Whether a contract is accounted for as reinsurance depends on whether the 
contract indemnifies the ceding company – here Zurich and Converium – from loss or liability.  
Such indemnification is known as risk transfer.  Risk is transferred when (1) the reinsurer 
assumes significant insurance risk and (2) it is reasonably possible that the reinsurer will realize 
a significant loss in the transaction.  A risk transfer analysis for a contract emphasizes substance 
over form, and Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) require “an evaluation of 
all contractual features that . . . limit the amount of insurance risk to which the reinsurer is 
subject . . . .”3
                Accordingly, under GAAP, “if agreements with the reinsurer . . . in the aggregate, 
do not transfer risk, the individual contracts that make up those agreements also would not be 
considered to transfer risk, regardless of how they are structured.”4
                                                                      
 
       12.     Where there is insufficient risk transfer, a transaction may not be treated as 
reinsurance under GAAP, and must be accounted for using the deposit method, which lacks the 
potential accounting benefits of reinsurance accounting.  Under reinsurance accounting, when 
losses on the ceded business are incurred, the ceding insurer records an offset to the increase in 
its gross loss reserves in an amount equal to the reinsurance it expects to recover from the 
reinsurer, thus increasing its net income by that amount.  Deposit accounting has no comparable 
income statement benefit.   
 

                                                 
3
       FASB, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 113, Accounting and Reporting 
for Reinsurance of Short-Duration and Long-Duration Contracts (December 1992), para. 8. 
 
4
       FASB, Emerging Issues Task Force Topic D-34, Accounting for Reinsurance:  Questions 
and Answers about FASB Statement No. 113 (July 22, 1993), Question 13. 
 

                                                4
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       13.    From 1999 through 2004, Zurich, and later Converium, designed five reinsurance 
transactions that created the appearance of risk transfer in order to benefit from reinsurance 
accounting.  Three of the five transactions were entered into prior to the December 2001 IPO and 
affected the financial statements Converium included in the IPO prospectus.  In two of the three 
pre-IPO transactions, Zurich purchased reinsurance from Inter-Ocean, which, in turn, ceded 
these liabilities to a Zurich entity (the “Inter-Ocean transactions”).  Zurich’s use of Inter-Ocean 
as an intermediary in the transaction helped obscure the transactions’ circular structure and the 
fact that Zurich had merely moved the risk from one Zurich entity to another.  In the remaining 
transactions, including one pre-IPO transaction, Zurich and later Converium entered into 
reinsurance transactions for which the contract terms were all undone through undisclosed side 
agreements or purportedly unrelated contracts.  Effectively, these side agreements or unrelated 
contracts protected the reinsurer against losses suffered under the reinsurance contract and placed 
all risk of loss on a Zurich or Converium entity.  Zurich and later Converium improperly 
accounted for these transactions using reinsurance accounting. 
 
The Circular Inter-Ocean Transactions 
 
       The Medical Defence Union Transactions  
 
         14.  In 2000, Zurich sought reinsurance for medical malpractice coverage it provided 
 to British doctors who were members of the Medical Defence Union (“MDU”).  In an April 25, 
 2000 e-mail concerning expected losses related to the MDU contract, the Chief Executive 
 Officer of certain Zurich Re entities and later Converium (the “CEO”) informed Zurich Re’s 
 (and later Converium’s) Chief Underwriting Officer (the “CUO”) that “we need to begin 
 working on the actual placement of the [MDU] stop loss to relieve the GAAP hit” for Zurich.  5
                                                                                                 
 Internally, Zurich personnel used the term "GAAP hit" to mean the expense and increased 
 reserve requirements associated with the medical defense coverage.  The expense would 
 decrease or "hit" reported income.  The CEO warned that, in obtaining the reinsurance, “we 
 need to be conscious of the issue of circularity.”6
                                                   
   
         15.  Between April and December 2000, Zurich attempted to negotiate reinsurance 
 contracts for its MDU business that contained genuine risk transfer.  However, by December 2, 
 2000, Zurich had not found any reinsurer willing to take on such a contract.  In December 
 2000, the CUO emailed the CEO and suggested that Zurich utilize Inter-Ocean or a similar 
 non-controlled foreign corporation.  The CEO responded “we need to get something in the 
 books now!  We close our books this week.”   
        
         16.  Soon thereafter Zurich entered into the following agreements:  ZIC UK entered 
 into a reinsurance agreement with Zurich Insurance Bermuda (“ZIB”) and ceded 80% of the 
 MDU claims made on business written on or after July 1, 2000.  At the same time, ZIB entered 

                                                 
5
            A stop loss policy is a form of reinsurance that covers all losses above a specified 
amount.   
 
6
            Both the CEO and the CUO ceased to be associated with Converium before it announced 
it would restate its financial statements.  Neither was ever associated with SCOR. 

                                               5
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 into a reinsurance agreement with Inter-Ocean to cover a portion of ZIB’s MDU liabilities for 
 the 2000 policy year.  This agreement provided for Inter-Ocean to cover ultimate net losses in 
 excess of 85% of gross premiums written for the 2000 policy year.  Inter-Ocean then ceded all 
 the liabilities it had assumed under the ZIB/Inter-Ocean agreement to an unaffiliated reinsurer 
 (Company A).  Company A, in turn, ceded all the liabilities to a Zurich affiliate, ZIC Bermuda. 
 
        
            
       ZIC               ZIB              IO           Company           ZIC 
       UK                                              A                 Bermuda   
            
            
            
     MDU  
            
 
         17.  Although Zurich accounted for the transactions with Inter-Ocean and Company A 
 as reinsurance, in reality, Zurich had re-circulated the risk from one Zurich entity to another, 
 while interposing intermediaries (Inter-Ocean and Company A) that obscured the transaction’s 
 circular structure.  Because this transaction was circular, there was no risk transfer and Zurich 
 and later Converium should not have accounted for the contract as reinsurance.  As a result, 
 and as reported in Converium’s December 2001 Form F-1, Converium understated its pre-tax 
 losses for the year ended December 31, 2000 by $1.36 million.  
  
         18.  Zurich and Company A renewed the ZIB/Inter-Ocean agreement in 2001 to 
 include MDU business written from January 1, 2001 through March 31, 2002.  At the time the 
 parties negotiated the agreement, Zurich had already announced its intention to spin-off its 
 reinsurance operations.  Due to the increased scrutiny of Zurich’s contracts occasioned by the 
 due diligence for the IPO, the CUO requested that the 2001 MDU reinsurance contracts not 
 include specific cross references that might have revealed that the reinsurance structure was 
 circular.  The contracts ultimately executed by the parties did not specifically reference the 
 other related agreements. 
 
         19.  As a result of the MDU transaction, in its Form 20-F filings for the years ended 
 December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003, Converium understated its pre-tax losses for 2001 by 
 $10.04 million (1.86%) and overstated its pre-tax income for 2002 by $6.52 million (9.49%) 
 and by $14.47 million (7.39%) for 2003.  
  
              The GAUM Transaction 
 
         20.  Just as it had done with MDU, in 2001, Zurich negotiated a circular reinsurance 
 transaction aimed at managing losses related to reinsurance coverage it provided to Global 
 Aerospace Underwriting Managers Ltd. (“GAUM”), an aerospace underwriting pool. 
 
         21.  In July 2001, Zurich estimated that losses under its reinsurance agreement with 
 GAUM would negatively impact Zurich Re’s earnings for the year ended December 31, 2001.  

                                               6
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 In a July 12, 2001 memo to the CEO and other senior executives, the CUO suggested the 
 “possibility to buy a GAAP cover” for the GAUM business.  In an August 31, 2001 email to 
 the CEO and others, the CUO provided the following description of the reinsurance structure, 
 reflecting that Zurich intended it to be circular from early on:  “Zurich Re retroceeds a 100% 
 [quota share] of its Stop Loss Reinsurance covering GAUM's net retention for the underwriting 
 year 2001 . . . to Interocean . . . Interocean enters into a Speed of Settlement (SOS) excess of 
 loss reinsurance with Zurich Insurance Bermuda . . ."   
 
         22.  In 2001, Zurich entered into the following transactions:  On September 25, 2001, 
 ZIC entered into an excess of loss reinsurance agreement with GAUM covering GAUM’s 
 losses for risks attaching during 2001 in excess of a certain attachment point.  On December 5, 
 2001, ZIC ceded 100% of its risks under the GAUM excess of loss reinsurance agreement to 
 Inter-Ocean, which in turn, ceded all of its liabilities to ZIB.   
 
 
       ZIC                      IO                         ZIB 
            
 
 
 
     GAUM  
        
        
        
        
       23.    Similar to the MDU transaction, Zurich and later Converium improperly 
 accounted for the GAUM contracts as reinsurance.  Specifically, because Zurich reassumed 
 100% of the risk from Inter-Ocean, it should not have accounted for the contracts as 
 reinsurance.  By improperly accounting for the transaction as reinsurance in its Form 20-F 
 filings for 2001 and 2002, Converium understated its pre-tax loss for 2001 by $4.88 million 
 (0.9%) and overstated its pre-tax income for 2002 by $4.24 million (6.18%). 
 
Transactions Involving Undisclosed Side Agreements  
    
         24.  In addition to the Inter-Ocean transactions, Zurich and later Converium entered 
 into three reinsurance transactions that appeared to transfer risk, but in fact did not due to side 
 agreements that left the risk with Zurich and Converium.  The first of these transactions began 
 before the IPO and involved a reinsurance facility known as the Z-1 Facility.  The other two 
 transactions, which are addressed separately below, occurred after Converium’s IPO.  
        
       The Z-1 Facility 
        
         25.  In 1999, Zurich established the Z-1 Facility with a Barbados insurance company 
 (Company B).   
   
         26.  Under the Z-1 Facility, Company B and a Cologne-based affiliate of Company B 
 (“Company B Cologne”) acted as reinsurers for six finite reinsurance transactions between 
 external cedents and ZIC, in which ZIC had reinsured losses of unaffiliated insurers.  ZIC 

                                               7
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 retroceded 100% of its obligations and premiums to another Zurich division, which then 
 retroceded 100% of its obligations and premiums to Company B Cologne, which then ceded 
 the business to Company B.  Company B, in turn, retroceded most but not all of the risk it had 
 assumed from Company B Cologne to a separate Zurich subsidiary, Zurich Re Cologne 
 pursuant to a “speed of settlement” stop loss agreement (“SOS”).  A SOS is a type of aggregate 
 stop loss agreement that limits the total losses incurred by the ceding company.  Under the 
 SOS, Company B retained the risk of up to $60 million of losses (including $10 million of 
 losses under Endorsement 1); Zurich Re Cologne was responsible for aggregate losses above 
 that $60 million. 
 
 

   Zurich Re                Company             Company B                 Zurich Re,  
   Zurich                   B Cologne                                     Cologne  

   Zurich Re                 External 
   North America             Insurers
                                                                                               
 
       Cover B Negates Risk Transfer 
        
         27.  Although Company B ceded much of the risk it assumed under the Z-1 Facility to 
 Zurich Re Cologne, Company B did not want to have any exposure for losses under the Z-1 
 Facility.  Accordingly, Company B sought a commitment from Zurich that Company B would 
 not realize any losses under the Z-1 Facility.  The CEO assured the Company B executive 
 responsible for the transaction that Company B would not realize any losses under the Z-1 
 Facility. 
 
         28.  The Company B executive insisted on security beyond the CEO’s oral 
 commitment.  At the CEO’s instruction, a Zurich employee prepared a separate reinsurance 
 agreement between ZIC and Company B to serve as security for the CEO’s promise.  The 
 agreement, which was unrelated to the Z-1 Facility on its face, was structured as a payback 
 mechanism and was intended to reimburse Company B for any losses suffered under the Z-1 
 Facility.  In internal correspondence, Zurich and later Converium referred to the agreement as 
 “Cover B.”  Cover B provided ZIC catastrophic coverage for the years 2000 through 2002 in 
 exchange for a total of $39 million in non-refundable premiums to Company B.  The 
 attachment point for coverage under Cover B was set intentionally high -- at a level that neither 
 party expected to be reached.  So, although Company B theoretically could have suffered 
 losses under Cover B, the agreement was structured to allow Company B to receive a premium 
 with very little risk.  The $39 million premium figure represented the present value of the 
 maximum possible loss that Company B could suffer under the Z-1 Facility ($60 million).  
 Moreover, Cover B was drafted to give Company B the option to trigger the parties’ 

                                              8
---------------------Page 9---------------------

 obligations and, by doing so, offset losses, if any, sustained under the Z-1 Facility.  In fact, 
 Company B referred to Cover B as the “option contract.”     
 
         29.  In the fall of 1999, prior to finalizing the terms of Cover B, the Zurich employee 
 who drafted the agreement told the CEO that he believed that Cover B negated risk transfer 
 under the Z-1 Facility.  Notwithstanding this warning, the CEO approved Cover B, and on 
 November 18, 1999, the CEO executed it on behalf of ZIC.     
 
         30.  In December 2000, Cover B was renewed, with the CEO again signing on behalf 
 of ZIC.  The terms of the 2000 Cover B agreement were substantially the same as the 1999 
 Cover B agreement, although the premium amount was increased to $15 million per year, for a 
 total of $45 million. 
  
         Unicover Losses Are Ceded to the Z-1 Facility 
  
         31.  In September 2000, Zurich became concerned about the financial statement 
 impact of Zurich’s exposure to losses arising out of Zurich’s involvement in the failed 
 Unicover Occupational Accident Reinsurance Pool (“Unicover Pool”).  To address these 
 concerns, Zurich approached Company B about including Zurich’s Unicover Pool exposure 
 under the Z-1 Facility.  Specifically, Zurich proposed ceding a potential exposure of $58.6 
 million under the Unicover Pool, as well as assorted other potential exposures, in exchange for 
 a $15 million premium.  
 
         32.  During a December 20, 2000 dinner with the CEO in Zurich, the Company B 
 executive who negotiated the Z-1 Facility and Cover B agreed to adjust the Z-1 Facility to 
 permit Zurich to cede potential Unicover losses to the Z-1 Facility.  The Company B executive 
 agreed to accept the cessions because he believed that Cover B protected Company B from risk 
 of loss under the Z-1 Facility.  Cover B was renewed and signed on December 20, 2000.   
 
         33.  By the time Zurich had completed the Converium IPO, significant losses on the 
 Unicover business had been recorded.  Converium ultimately ceded those losses to the Z-1 
 Facility.  Converium was prepared to honor Zurich’s prior commitment that Company B would 
 not suffer any losses under the Z-1 Facility, and Converium did not want Company B to trigger 
 Cover B.  To induce Company B not to trigger Cover B, Converium offered to enter into 
 reinsurance agreements that would be structured in such a way as to ensure that Company B 
 would realize sufficient profit to offset the Z-1 Facility losses.  The Company B executive 
 described the arrangement and reasoning in an internal memo following a January 2003 
 meeting with the CEO:  “Converium does not want us to trigger the option cover (contract 5), 
 since it would make it obvious that this transaction was a circular transaction.  Instead they 
 have offered us [other profitable business] . . . . Converium and especially [the CEO] have 
 proved to us that Converium will hold [Company B’s parent] harmless under the [Z-1 Facility].  
 The option cover (contract 5) [Cover B] was always considered to be a sleep-easy cover in case 
 Converium does not fulfill it’s [sic] obligation they gave to [Company B] ….”   
 
 
 

                                               9
---------------------Page 10---------------------

       Converium Cedes Profitable Business to Company B as Payback for Z-1 Losses           
 
         34.  Consistent with the CEO’s representations, Converium entered into three 
 purportedly unrelated agreements with Company B in lieu of th  e option contract to offset 
 losses ceded to the Z-1 Facility.  First, in 2003, Converium entered into a multiple year third 
 event industry warranty catastrophe excess of loss reinsurance contract with Company B for 
 the years 2003 through 2005.  Converium purchased coverage for this contract from Company 
 B.  As a result, in exchange for providing coverage for a remote layer of risk, Converium paid 
 Company B an $8 million premium each year.   
 
         35.  Second, in early 2000, pursuant to a novation agreement, Company B replaced 
 another Bermuda-based reinsurer, as the retrocessionaire for risks related to a pre-existing 
 reinsurance agreement between Zurich and a third-party reinsurer.  According to internal 
 Converium and Company B documents, Converium used $2.6 million in excess fees that 
 would have been payable to the original retrocessionaire but that Company B received in its 
 place to offset a portion of the losses suffered by Company B under the Z-1 Facility.   
 
         36.  Third, in 2004, in exchange for assuming the risk in connection with a policy for 
 only the final month of a year-long agreement, Company B received the vast bulk of the 
 premiums under the contract - - $9.85 million of the $10.2 million annual premium.  
   
         37.  In connection with the above reinsurance agreements, Converium paid a total of 
 $35.73 million to Company B as a means of repaying the deficit that had arisen through losses 
 ceded to Company B via the Z-1 Facility.  
 
 
       The Net Effect of the Z-1 Transactions 
 
         38.  The Z-1 transactions did not transfer insurance risk outside of entities included in 
 Zurich’s, and later Converium’s, consolidated financial statements and should not have been 
 accounted for as reinsurance.  As a result, in its December 2001 Form F-1, Converium 
 understated its pre-tax loss for the year ended December 31, 2000 by $98.20 million or 
 66.19%.   
 
The Converium IPO 
 
         39.  On March 22, 2001, in connection with its announcement of disappointing 
 financial results for 2000, Zurich reported that it intended to exit the assumed reinsurance 
 business.  In a September 6, 2001 press release, Zurich announced that its reinsurance business 
 would be spun off in an IPO, and that as of October 1, 2001, the business would operate under 
 the name Converium.     
 
         40.  As a result of the misrepresentations described above, the IPO offering documents 
 were materially misleading.  The Registration Statement and Prospectus filed by Converium in 
 connection with the IPO, which became effective on December 11, 2001, failed to disclose the 

                                              10
---------------------Page 11---------------------

 impact of the circular Inter-Ocean and the Z-1 Facility transactions on Converium’s business 
 operations, financial results and shareholders’ equity at the time of the IPO. 
 
         41.  Converium’s historical financial data reported in its prospectus was derived from 
 data from the Zurich subsidiaries combined to form Converium.    
 
         42.  The statements in the prospectus regarding Converium’s financial results for 2000 
 and the first half of 2001 were materially false and misleading.  As a consequence of the pre-
 IPO circular Inter-Ocean transactions and the Z-1 Facility transactions, rather than reporting a 
 loss before taxes of $48.8 million for 2000, Converium should have reported a loss of at least 
 $148.4 million.  Also according to Converium’s restatement filed on March 1, 2006, as the 
 result of reinsurance transactions, Converium overstated its $1.09 billion in reported 
 shareholders’ equity as of December 31, 2000 by at least $72.3 million (approximately 6.6% of 
 the total reported shareholders’ equity), an amount including the effect of $100 million 
 attributable to the Inter-Ocean and Z-1 Facility transactions and partially offset by $27.7 
 million attributable to other reinsurance transactions not addressed within this Order.  Finally, 
 because Converium’s loss ratio for its non-life reinsurance business was directly affected by 
 the improperly recorded reinsurance obtained through the circular Inter-Ocean and the Z-1 
 Facility transactions, Converium materially understated its reported loss ratios for its “Global 
 Non-life” and “Converium Zurich” segments in 2000 and 2001.  Had Converium accounted for 
 these transactions as deposits, Converium would have reported for its “Global Non-life” 
 segment a 92.6% loss ratio (a 6% increase from the 86.6% it reported) and for its “Converium 
 Zurich” segment a 94% loss ratio (a 14.5% increase from the 79.5% it reported) in 2000.  In 
 2001, Converium should have reported for its “Global Non-life” segment a loss ratio above 
 100% (up from the 99.7% reported to 100.2%), which indicates an underwriting loss.   
 
         43.  On December 11, 2001, Converium conducted its IPO pursuant to the 
 Registration Statement and Prospectus. The Converium IPO was the largest initial public 
 offering of a reinsurance company in history.  Moreover, it was the largest initial public 
 offering of a Swiss company in three years.  Zurich sold 35 million shares of Converium stock 
 in the IPO at a price of 82 Swiss Francs per share, or $24.59 per ADS (with each ADS 
 representing one half of one share of stock).  The IPO yielded gross proceeds of approximately 
 $1.7 billion.  Zurich received net proceeds of approximately $1.6 billion from its sale of 
 Converium securities through the IPO.  
 
         44.  In addition to the 35 million shares Zurich sold in the December 11, 2001 IPO, 
 Zurich granted the underwriters an over-allotment of 5 million shares of Converium stock, 
 representing the remainder of Zurich’s interest in Converium.  On January 9, 2002, Zurich 
 issued a press release in which it announced that the over-allotment had been exercised, and 
 that it had sold its remaining 5 million shares of Converium.  In total, through the IPO, Zurich 
 sold 40 million shares of Converium – every single share of Converium that it owned – and 
 reaped proceeds of approximately $1.97 billion. 
 
         45.  As a result of the Inter-Ocean transactions (MDU and GAUM) and the Z-1 
 Facility, Converium’s financial statements contained in Form F-1 filings for the IPO materially 
 overstated shareholders equity as of October 1, 2001.  Had Converium properly accounted for 

                                               11
---------------------Page 12---------------------

 the true nature of the Inter-Ocean and Z-1 Facility transactions, Zurich would have received 
 materially less from its proceeds of the offering.  
 
False Statements in Press Releases
 
         46.  Converium also made false and misleading statements in press releases.  On 
 March 18, 2002, Converium issued a press release reporting its financial results for the year 
 ending December 31, 2001.  Converium reported a net loss of $367 million for fiscal 2001, 
 which Converium downplayed as endemic of the industry-wide impact of the September 11 
 attacks and the Enron collapse – one-time catastrophic events.  In the press release, Converium 
 touted the material improvement in its adjusted non-life combined ratio, excluding the impact 
 of September 11 and Enron: 
 
              Converium has a very solid balance sheet and is strongly capitalized at 
              $1.6 billion to benefit in the hardening markets. ... We substantially 
              improved our underlying adjusted non-life combined ratio in 2001 by 7.8 
              points to 105.4%. ... Our objective for 2002 is to generate a non-life 
              combined ratio of close to 100% and to target an ROE of more than 12.5% 
               
         47.  On May 23, 2002, Converium filed its Form 20-F for the year ended December 
 31, 2001 (the “2001 20-F”) in which it repeated the results first announced in Converium’s 
 March 18, 2002 press release, and represented that those results were prepared in accordance 
 with GAAP.  In addition, the 2001 20-F reported that, as of December 31, 2001, Converium 
 had shareholders’ equity of $1.6 billion.   
 
         48.  The financial results reported in Converium’s March 18, 2002 press release and 
 its 2001 20-F were materially false and misleading.  Specifically, as a result of the fraudulent 
 reinsurance transactions described above, Converium overstated its shareholders’ equity as of 
 December 31, 2001 by $103.1 million or 7.02%. 
 
Converium Modifies the MDU Transaction to Deceive the FSA   
 
         49.  After the IPO, Converium continued to use circular transactions to manipulate its 
 financial statements.  However, because of regulatory concerns in Europe, Converium engaged 
 in further subterfuge to hide the circular nature of certain reinsurance transactions.   
 
         50.  In January 2003, Converium submitted an application to license Converium 
 Insurance Company UK (“Converium UK”) to write insurance within the United Kingdom.  In 
 April and May 2003, the Financial Services Authority (“FSA”) requested, among other things, 
 that Converium provide additional information regarding: (a) the ownership structure of Inter-
 Ocean; and (b) whether any member of the Converium group provided retrocessional 
 protection to Inter-Ocean related to the MDU business.  Prior to the FSA seeking information 
 about Converium’s transactions with Inter-Ocean, Converium had agreed with Company A 
 that Company A would continue to participate in the MDU business for 2002 and 2003.  
 Specifically, the parties had agreed that the transactions would utilize the same circular 

                                              12
---------------------Page 13---------------------

 structure that had been used prior to the IPO:  Converium to Inter-Ocean to Company A and 
 back to Converium.  
 
         51.  On May 7, 2003, the CUO contacted a senior Company A executive by e-mail 
 regarding the FSA’s inquiry about whether Converium acts as a reinsurer for Inter-Ocean.  The 
 CUO wrote: “If we answer this question with yes this would have implications on the capital 
 charges for [Converium] and some reputational issues we would like to avoid.”  Instead, the 
 CUO asked whether, in order to avoid the issue of circularity, Company A would replace 
 Converium on the back end of the transactions for years 2002 and 2003.   
 
         52.  In order to provide written security that Company A would not incur losses under 
 the restructured MDU transaction, Converium gave Company A a “put option,” under which 
 Company A could “put” the business back to Converium if the MDU business began to incur 
 losses.  Because the put option placed all risk of loss with Converium, the put option had the 
 effect of recreating circularity.  Although the put option was never exercised (because 
 economic losses under the agreement never materialized), Converium, as had Zurich before it, 
 continued to account improperly for the agreements as reinsurance.   
 
         53.  On May 9, 2003, after Company A agreed to restructure the transaction, 
 Converium responded to the FSA’s request for information.  The letter stated that Converium 
 owns a minority interest (9.9%) of Inter-Ocean Holding, Ltd., which wholly owns Inter-Ocean 
 Reinsurance Co. Ltd.  Converium also stated that it did not provide any retrocession to Inter-
 Ocean concerning the MDU business.   
 
Converium’s Post-IPO Fraudulent Transactions  
 
         54.  Following the IPO, Converium entered into two additional reinsurance 
 transactions involving side agreements.  The first transaction included an undisclosed “profit 
 sharing agreement” that served as a vehicle to protect the reinsurer from any loss.  The second 
 transaction involved an undisclosed side agreement that also served to make the reinsurer 
 whole.  Converium improperly accounted for these transactions as reinsurance since these side 
 agreements sought to reimburse the reinsurers for any losses and therefore negated any risk 
 transfer.   
 
       The Transaction with Company C 
        
         55.  Just prior to the IPO, Converium became concerned about the effect a 
 catastrophic event loss might have on its balance sheet.  As a result, in late 2001, Converium 
 began soliciting quotes for excess of loss reinsurance from a number of reinsurers, including 
 Company C, an unaffiliated reinsurer.  However, before writing any reinsurance policy to 
 Converium, Company C wanted comfort at the back end that it would not lose money on any 
 reinsurance policy it might write, which ultimately led the parties to enter into an undisclosed 
 side agreement that ensured Company C that it would not experience any losses.  This side 
 agreement negated Converium’s transfer of any reinsurance risk to Company C in any of the 
 contracts.   
 

                                              13
---------------------Page 14---------------------

         56.  From early March 2002 through late fall 2003, Converium entered into three 
 excess of loss reinsurance policies with Company C.  In October 2001, prior to entering into 
 any of the reinsurance agreements, Company C forwarded to the CUO a proposed agreement 
 captioned “side-letter” that ensured that Company C would experience no losses on the 
 reinsurance contracts.  Specifically, the “side letter” obligated Converium “to specifically hold 
 [Company C] harmless at the end in all respects under said reinsurance contracts.  [Company 
 C] acts purely as an enabler.” 
 
         57.  On October 20, 2001, the CUO sent a revised “side letter” to the CEO, along with 
 an e-mail written entirely in German – except for the word “FRAUD.”  The English translation 
 of the e-mail is as follows:   
 
       Enclosed is the draft side agreement as well as the [Company C] images. We must 
       first work hard on these.  Do you want to involve someone from legal?  If yes, 
       who?  They have not liked these things and I fear that our actions would turn into 
       a difficult situation (compliance etc).  One alternative would be to handle it in the 
       market ourselves and apply common sense.  Actually, there should be no 
       contractual document otherwise according to [Converium’s Senior Legal 
       Counsel] the reinsurance agreement is void and all “FRAUD.” Let me know!   
        
 
         58.  The next day, the CEO informed the CUO via e-mail that the side letter was “too 
 restrictive” and that he “would prefer a letter of comfort and some additional protections built 
 in for Company C in the contract which do not cause us problems from an accounting 
 perspective.” 
 
         59.  On December 7, 2001, Company C sent the CUO a “corrected side letter” that 
 included a “pay-back clause.”  The “pay-back clause” stated that, should Company C 
 experience an economic loss on any of the three contracts, Converium would pay Company C 
 additional premiums to make up for the loss.  In addition, the “corrected side letter” did not 
 alter that “Converium confirms specifically to hold [Company C] harmless at the end in all 
 respects under said reinsurance contracts.  Company C acts purely as an enabler.” 
 
         60.  Converium improperly accounted for the transactions with Company C as 
 reinsurance.  As a result of the “side-letter,” Company C assumed no reinsurance risk, and 
 Converium should have accounted for the transaction using deposit accounting.  As a result, 
 Converium, in its December 31, 2003 Form 20-F, overstated its pre-tax income for 2003 by 
 $21.67 million or 11.06%. 
 
       The Transactions with Company D  
    
         61.  Zurich, and later Converium, maintained a book of business related to reinsurance 
 for Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefit (“GMDB”) liabilities it maintained through treaties 
 with third-party cedents.  In early 2003, analysts criticized Converium for being under-reserved 
 with respect to its risks related to its GMDB business and, in response, Converium sought 
 reinsurance from an unaffiliated reinsurer (Company D) through two reinsurance agreements.  

                                              14
---------------------Page 15---------------------

 However, in order to protect Company D from suffering any combined losses under both 
 reinsurance agreements, Converium and Company D entered a “Master Profit Sharing 
 Agreement” that linked the two reinsurance agreements and negated Converium’s transfer of 
 reinsurance risk to Company D.  
 
        62.  In 2003, Converium and Company D entered into a GMDB Stop Loss 
 Reinsurance Agreement (the “GMDB agreement”) effective October 1, 2003.  The GMDB 
 agreement covered Converium’s risks related to its GMDB business up to $75 million in 
 excess of ultimate net loss of $93.2 million.  In exchange, Company D received $10 million in 
 premium, and Converium was required to pay an additional premium of 85% of the risk 
 between $55 million and $75 million.  The net exposure to Company D in the transaction was 
 $50 million.  
 
        63.  At the same time they entered into the GMDB agreement, Converium and 
 Company D entered into a Property Catastrophe Excess of Loss Agreement that covered losses 
 from European windstorms over a five year period (January 1, 2004 through December 31, 
 2008) (the “windstorm agreement”).  In exchange, Company D received an $11.2 million 
 annual premium.  Company D then retroceded the windstorm agreement to Inter-Ocean, which 
 then retroceded the risks to Converium.  After taking into account each leg of the transaction, 
 Company D would receive an annual net premium of $10.2 million or a total of $51 million 
 over the five years, which fully covered its net exposure under the GMDB agreement.   
 
        64.  While there was real risk that Company D would incur losses under the GMDB 
 agreement, there was a low probability that Company D would incur losses under the 
 windstorm agreement.  In order to protect Company D from suffering any combined losses 
 under both the GMDB and windstorm transactions, Converium and Company D entered into a 
 Master Profit Sharing Agreement (“the profit sharing agreement”) that linked the two 
 reinsurance agreements.  Taking the GMDB and windstorm agreements together, Company D 
 would receive approximately $75 million in premiums under both agreements, thereby pre-
 funding or reimbursing Company D for any losses it could have experienced under the GMDB 
 Stop Loss agreement.   
 
        65.  Converium improperly accounted for the Company D transaction as reinsurance.  
 As a result of the profit sharing agreement linking the GMDB and windstorm agreements, 
 Company D assumed no (or very little) reinsurance risk under both reinsurance agreements and 
 should have accounted for the transactions using deposit accounting.   
 
Converium’s Restatement 
 
        66.  On November 4, 2005, following an internal review of certain finite insurance and 
 reinsurance transactions, including the transactions described above, Converium announced 
 that it planned to restate prior period financial statements.  Converium’s closing stock price 
 declined 4.7%, from $4.91 per ADS on November 3, 2005 to $4.68 per ADS on November 4, 
 2005.   
 

                                             15
---------------------Page 16---------------------

         67.  On March 1, 2006, Converium restated its financial statements as of and for the 
 years ended December 31, 1998 through December 31, 2004 and disclosed that it had 
 improperly accounted for the Inter-Ocean, the Z-1 Facility, Company C and Company D 
 transactions.  
 
         68.  By accounting for these transactions as reinsurance, Converium overstated its pre-
 tax income and shareholder’s equity.  The financial statements for 2000 were included in 
 Converium’s F-1 filings made in connection with its IPO in December 2001.  The financial 
 statements for 2000 and 2001 were included in Converium’s F-1 filings made in connection 
 with a debt offering in December 2002.  The financial statements for 2001 through 2004 were 
 included in Converium’s annual reports on Form 20-F filed with the Commission on May 23, 
 2002, April 18, 2003, April 9, 2004, and June 30, 2005, respectively.   
 
VIOLATIONS 
 
         69.  As a result of the conduct described above, Converium violated Section 17(a) of 
 the Securities Act, which prohibits fraudulent conduct in the offer and sale of securities.  
 Converium made material misrepresentations and omitted material facts in its (a) Registration 
 Statement on Form F-1 and Prospectus for its December 2001 IPO; and (b) Registration 
 Statement on Form F-1 and Prospectus for its December 2002 offering of guaranteed 
 subordinated notes. 
 
         70.  As a result of the conduct described above, Converium violated Section 10(b) of 
 the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in connection 
 with the purchase or sale of securities.  Converium improperly accounted for five finite 
 reinsurance transactions and made material misrepresentations regarding its true financial 
 condition in its (a) Registration Statement on Form F-1 and Prospectus for its December 2001 
 IPO; (b) March 18, 2002 press release; (c) 2001 Annual Report on Form 20-F; (d) 2002 Annual 
 Report on Form 20-F; (e) Registration Statement on Form F-1 and Prospectus for its December 
 2002 offering of guaranteed subordinated notes; (f) 2003 Annual Report on Form 20-F; and (g) 
 2004 Annual Report on Form 20-F.  
 
         71.  As a result of the conduct described above, Converium violated Section 13(a) of 
 the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-1 thereunder, which require issuers to file true, 
 accurate and complete periodic reports with the Commission.  Converium filed false periodic 
 reports with the Commission by misstating material facts concerning its financial performance 
 due to Converium’s improper accounting treatment of the finite transactions at issue.   
 
         72.  As a result of the conduct described above, Converium violated Section 
 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to make and keep books, 
 records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their transactions 
 and dispositions of their assets.  Because Converium improperly accounted for and recorded 
 the five finite reinsurance transactions at issue, its books, records and accounts did not, in 
 reasonable detail, accurately reflect its transactions and dispositions of assets. 
 

                                              16
---------------------Page 17---------------------

          73.  As a result of the conduct described above, Converium violated Section 
  13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, which require all reporting companies to maintain a system 
  of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable a    ssurances that transactions are 
  recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with 
  generally accepted accounting principles and prohibit them from, directly or indirectly, 
  falsifying or causing to be falsified, any book, record, or account.  Converium’s internal 
  controls were not sufficient to prevent numerous false accounting entries related to the finite 
  reinsurance transactions at issue to be recorded and to account for the transactions in 
  conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. 
 
        Converium’s Remedial Efforts 
 
        In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts promptly 
undertaken by Respondent and cooperation afforded the Commission staff.   
 
                                                   IV. 
 
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the relief 
agreed to in Respondent Converium’s Offer. 
 
              Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
              Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and Section 21C of the Exchange Act, 
Respondent Converium shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, and 13a-1 thereunder.   
 
 
        By the Commission. 
 
 
      Florence E. Harmon 
      Acting Secretary 
 
 
  
 

                                                   17
