---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 8726 / July 31, 2006 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 54246 / July 31, 2006 
 
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940 
Release No. 2539 / July 31, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2470 / July 31, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12179 
 
                                            ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND 
In the Matter of                           IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS  
                                           PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
LAWRENCE A. STOLER, CPA,                   COMMISSION'S RULES OF PRACTICE 
                                           AND CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
Respondent.                                PURSUANT TO SECTION 8A OF THE 
                                            SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECTION 21C 
                                            OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 
                                           1934, AND SECTION 203(k) OF THE 
                                           INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940            
                                             
 
                                         I. 
 
              On February 9, 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) instituted  
public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings, pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), 
Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Section 203(k) of the 
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Lawrence A. Stoler (“Stoler” or 
“Respondent”).1
               

                                                 
1
             Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                  
                                                II. 
                                                  
              In connection with these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer of Settlement 
(the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of these 
proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the 
Commission is a party, and prior to a hearing pursuant to the Commission's  Rules of Practice, 17 
C.F.R. §201.100 et seq., and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the 
Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are 
admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Making Findings and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Cease-and-Desist 
Order Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, and Section 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Order”), as 
set forth below.   
 
                                                III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds2
                                                                                   that  
 
A.     SUMMARY
  
       1.      This proceeding concerns Stoler’s improper professional conduct in the audits of 
the 2000 annual financial statements of three hedge funds  –  Lipper Convertibles, L.P. 
(“Convertibles”), Lipper Convertibles Series II, L.P. (“Series II”), and Lipper Fixed Income Fund, 
L.P. (“Fixed Income”) (collectively, the “Funds”)  –  managed by Lipper Holdings, LLC (“Lipper 
Holdings”).  Stoler was the engagement partner on the 2000 audits and prior years’ audits.  
 
       2.      From at least 1998 until his resignation in January 2002, the Funds’ portfolio 
manager, Edward J. Strafaci (“Strafaci”) intentionally overstated the value of the convertible bonds 
and convertible preferred stock in which the Funds were invested.  As a result, investors and 
prospective investors received materially false statements about the Funds’ value and performance.  
Strafaci’s inflated valuations were reflected in Fund offering materials and in periodic reports to 
investors, including audited year-end financial statements.  Because Convertibles and Series II 
were registered broker-dealers, their annual audited financial statements were also filed with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 17 of the Exchange Act and Rule 17a-5(d) thereunder.   
 

                                                                                                                                                             
       The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
       practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or 
       improper professional conduct. 
 
2
             The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not 
       binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
                                                 2  
                                                  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

              3.           As a result of Strafaci’s fraud, the Funds were revalued and then dissolved.  Just 
weeks after Strafaci’s resignation, and following a review of his valuations, the Funds reported to 
their investors that their partner capital accounts in Convertibles, Series II and Fixed Income were 
being written down by approximately 40%, 15% and 22%, respectively, from their previously 
reported values.  Largely as a result of Strafaci’s overvaluation, Convertibles, the largest of the 
Funds, lost approximately $350 million of its reported partners’ capital from December 31, 2000, 
the date of its last audited financial statements, to December 31, 2001.  The analysis performed in 
connection with the Funds' dissolution revealed that the partners’ capital of Convertibles as 
reported in those audited financial statements was overstated by approximately 49%.  Strafaci 
admitted his wrongdoing, pleading guilty to criminal securities fraud charges.   
 
              4.           Throughout Strafaci’s fraud, the Funds’ year-end financial statements were audited 
by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”).  PwC's audit reports on the Funds’ 2000 financial 
statements were unqualified and stated that the financial statements were prepared in conformity 
with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), and had been audited in accordance with 
generally accepted auditing standards (“GAAS”).  Those audit reports were provided to investors 
and prospective investors.  In fact, the Funds’ 2000 financial statements were not prepared in 
conformity with GAAP and had not been audited in accordance with GAAS.  
 
              5.           Stoler’s conduct in the 2000 audits did not accord with GAAS.  The 2000 audits 
produced substantial evidence that Strafaci had grossly overstated the value of the Funds’ 
investments, but Stoler disregarded or failed to apprise himself of  that evidence.  The 2000 audit 
workpapers show that the Funds were substantially overvalued in comparison to prices the audit 
team obtained from three independent sources: the Funds' prime brokers, Bloomberg Information 
Services (“Bloomberg”), and a broker-dealer that provided quotes for eight securities – seven of 
which were significantly lower than Strafaci’s values -- as part of a flawed “confirmation” process.   
Stoler did not question why Strafaci’s values were significantly higher than those independent 
prices.  Instead, he blindly relied on results of a flawed “confirmation” process.  Under Stoler’s 
supervision, the audits amounted to a mechanical execution of tests, without real regard for the 
results of those tests.  In sum, Stoler failed to exercise due professional care and professional 
skepticism, failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to support PwC’s unqualified 
opinions, and failed to adequately supervise the work of assistants.   
 
              6.           Stoler’s conduct in the Funds’ 2000 audits was highly unreasonable within the 
meaning of Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(1).  Accordingly, Stoler engaged in improper professional 
conduct within the meaning of Rule 102(e)(1)(ii).  In addition, by virtue of his conduct, Stoler was 
a cause of violations of certain provisions of the Securities, Exchange, and Advisers Acts 
committed by the Funds, Strafaci, and/or Lipper Holdings. 
 

                                                3  
                                                  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

B.     RESPONDENT
 
 7.            Lawrence A. Stoler was an audit partner at PwC from 1980 until he retired in 
2002.  Stoler was the engagement partner on the Funds’ 2000 audits and on the audits from the 
late-1980s until the Funds' collapse in early 2002, except for two years in the mid-1990s, when he 
served as the concurring partner.  During the relevant period, Stoler was a certified public 
accountant licensed to practice in New York and New Jersey.  Upon retirement, he allowed his 
CPA licenses to lapse and is not currently licensed as an accountant.  Stoler is 61 years old and 
resides in Allendale, New Jersey. 
 
C.     OTHER RELEVANT PERSONS AND ENTITIES 
 
 8.            PwC is a Delaware limited liability partnership with its principal place of business 
in New York City.  PwC (and its predecessor, Price Waterhouse LLP (“Price Waterhouse”)) served 
as the Funds’ auditor from 1989 until their collapse in early 2002. 
 
       9.     The Funds - Convertibles, Series II, and Fixed Income - were hedge funds 
organized as limited partnerships; none was registered or required to be registered under the 
Investment Company Act of 1940.  Convertibles (formerly known    as Lipco Partners, L.P. and, 
under prior management, Cohen, Feit & Co.) was established in 1985, Series II was established in 
1998, and Fixed Income was established in 1993.  At all relevant times, Convertibles and Series II 
were registered with the Commission as broker-dealers and were members of the NASD.  
Convertibles and Series II primarily invested in convertible securities – bonds or preferred stock 
convertible by the owner into shares of common stock – and generally hedged their long positions 
by selling short the common stock into which the bond or preferred stock was convertible.  The 
Funds also employed leverage – borrowed money – to purchase the convertible securities, which 
allowed them to hold securities in an amount in excess of the equity contributed by the Funds' 
partners.  Fixed Income invested approximately 60% of its capital in Convertibles, and thus 
indirectly invested in Convertibles’ hedged portfolio of convertible securities.  Convertibles and 
Fixed Income are in the process of being liquidated; Series II has been liquidated.  
 
 10.           Lipper Holdings, LLC was a Delaware limited liability company that, during the 
relevant period, was the general partner for each of the Funds.3
                                                               Lipper Holdings managed the 
portfolio for Convertibles and Series II.  Kenneth Lipper was chairman, president and chief 
executive officer of Lipper Holdings.  
 
 11.           Edward J. Strafaci was, during the relevant period, the Funds’ portfolio manager 
and executive vice president and director of fixed income money management for Lipper & Co.   
From at least 1998 until January 2002, Strafaci intentionally overstated the value of the convertible 

                                                 
3
             An affiliated entity, Lipper & Co. L.P. (“Lipper & Co.”) managed the portion of Fixed 
       Income's portfolio that was not invested in Convertibles and acted as placement agent for 
       the Funds.  During the relevant period, Lipper & Co. was registered with the Commission 
       as an investment adviser and a broker-dealer. 
                                               4  
                                                 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

bonds and convertible preferred stock held by the Funds, resulting in the dissemination of 
materially false and misleading fund valuations and performance figures to investors and 
prospective investors, and the filing of inaccurate reports with the Commission.  On the basis of 
this conduct, Strafaci has been the subject of enforcement action by the Commission and a criminal 
prosecution.  He pleaded guilty to one felony count of securities fraud for overstating the value of 
Convertibles’ and Series II’s portfolios, in United States v. Edward Strafaci, 03 Crim. 1182 
(S.D.N.Y), is currently serving a seventy-two month prison sentence, and has been ordered to pay 
restitution of $89,282,416.  In addition, Strafaci has, by consent, been enjoined from future 
violations of certain provisions of the securities laws in Securities and Exchange Commission v. 
Edward J. Strafaci, 03 Civ. 8524 (S.D.N.Y.), and barred from association with any broker, dealer, 
or investment adviser in Edward J. Strafaci, Exchange Act Release No. 50422 (Sept. 22, 2004). 
 
D.     FACTS 
 
       Strafaci’s Overstatement of the Funds’ Assets  
 
              12.        Strafaci was the Funds' portfolio manager and the person to whom Lipper Holdings 
delegated responsibility for valuing the Funds’ portfolios.  The Funds’ audited financial statements 
represented that securities held by the Funds were “valued at market.”   
 
              13.        On January 14, 2002, Strafaci abruptly left Lipper Holdings, purportedly to start his 
own money-management firm.  Shortly after his departure, Lipper Holdings reviewed his 
valuations and concluded that they were not within a reasonable range of the securities’ actual 
market values for December 31, 2001.  In late-February 2002, Lipper Holdings announced that the 
partners’ capital of Convertibles, Series II, and Fixed Income were being written down by 
approximately 40%, 15%, and 22%, respectively.  Shortly thereafter, Lipper Holdings announced 
that it had decided to dissolve the Funds and by March 26, 2002, it had liquidated most of the 
Funds’ investments.  In a November 2002 report, counsel retained by the Funds to conduct an 
independent investigation into the Funds’ valuation practices (the “Special Counsel”) concluded 
that since at least January 1, 1996 (or, with respect to Series II, at least January 1, 1999), Strafaci’s 
valuations were inconsistent with the Funds’ stated valuation policies and procedures and “[could] 
not be supported by any rational basis.”  
 
              14.        In October 2002, Lipper Holdings commenced court proceedings to liquidate the 
Funds.  In connection with the liquidation proceedings, Lipper Holdings directed an independent 
consultant (“Consultant”) “to determine a reasonable method of determining the investors' 
ownership interest .  .  .  without significant use of the 'market values' of the securities held by the 
Fund as contemporaneously reported in the Fund’s records.”  The Consultant revalued the Funds’ 
convertible securities based on prices obtained from one of two commercial pricing services, or the 
Funds’ prime brokers. 4
                        On that basis, the Consultant revalued long positions of Convertibles and 
Series II, with the resulting impact on partners’ capital as follows: 

                                                 
4
             The term “prime broker” as used in this order refers to a broker-dealer that provides 
       services to hedge funds, money managers and others, such as preparing daily account 
                                                5  
                                                  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                       Values for Convertibles as of December 31, 2000 
                                            (in millions) 
                                                    
                           Per Audited          As Revalued        Difference 
                            Financials 
   Long Positions            $2,297.8             $2,017.0         $280.8  (12.2%) 
  Partners’ Capital          $   568.7            $   287.9        $280.8  (49.4%) 
                                                    
                          Values for Series II as of December 31, 2000 
                                            (in millions) 
 
                        Per Audited           As Revalued          Difference 
                        Financials 
 Long Positions         $186.9                $175.3                  $11.6 (6.2%) 
 Partners’ Capital    $  82.9                 $  71.3                 $11.6 (14.0%) 
 
 
              15.        As revalued by the Consultant, the partners’ capital of Convertibles as of December 
31, 1999 and December 31, 1998 was, respectively, 34% and 36% less than had been reported in 
the Fund’s audited financial statements.  
 
       The 2000 Audits 
 
              16.        Price Waterhouse was first hired as Convertibles’ independent accountant in 1989.  
Lipper Holdings selected Price Waterhouse in part because of its touted expertise with respect to 
hedge funds and valuation of hard-to-price securities.  By the time of the 2000 audits, PwC was the 
auditor for all the Funds and several other affiliated entities, including several registered 
investment companies, and Stoler had been the engagement or concurring partner on the Funds' 
audits for approximately ten years. 
 
              17.        As the engagement partner on the 2000 audits, Stoler was responsible for ensuring 
that the audits were conducted in accordance with GAAS, and was required, among other things, to 
supervise the work of subordinate members of the audit team to ensure that the audit work was 
adequately performed and supported the conclusions presented in PwC’s reports on the financial 
statements.   
 

                                                                                                                                                             
       statements, clearing and settlement of securities transactions, financing or leverage, and 
       custodial services.  On December 31, 2000, the Funds dealt with seven prime brokers, 
       sometimes also referred to as “clearing brokers” or “custodians.” 
                                                  6  
                                                    
---------------------Page 7---------------------

              18.        In the 2000 audit of Strafaci’s valuation of the Funds’ convertible securities5
                                                                                              – the 
most critical part of the audits – Stoler failed to act in accordance with GAAS.  He failed to 
exercise due care and appropriate professional skepticism, obtain sufficient competent evidential 
matter, or adequately supervise the work of assistants.  
 
        Stoler Was Aware of the Funds' Internal Control Weaknesses                                                                   
 
              19.        At the time of the 2000 audits, Stoler knew that the Funds’ internal control 
weaknesses called for heightened scrutiny of the valuation of their investments.  The audit team 
had observed in prior audits that the internal controls in place with respect to valuation were 
inadequate and that the Funds’ investments were valued by Strafaci without oversight.  The 
workpapers for the Funds’ 1996 and 1997 audits noted this internal control weakness, stating:   
 
       [d]ue to the complexity of the process all pricing work is performed by the front 
       office (Ed Strafaci with assistance from [a Fund trader].)  There is no formal review 
       of the marks external of the front office, because of a lack of technical knowledge 
       (convertible arbitrage securities).  In order to have proper segregation of duties, the 
       pricing function should be monitored in a Middle/Back Office capacity by a party 
       outside the front office (Product Control, Accounting). Point to be considered for 
       inclusion in letter to management. 
        
              20.        In addition, during the planning of the 2000 audits, the audit team noted that the 
Funds had certain internal control weaknesses.  The team prepared a risk analysis, referred to 
internally as a “FRISK” analysis, for the Funds, which Stoler approved.  That analysis identified 
the Funds’ “management governance and oversight of management” as a “high risk” area, as had 
the FRISK analysis for the Funds’ 1999 audits.  PwC never sent a management letter concerning 
the inadequacy of the Funds’ internal controls regarding valuation. 
 
        The Audit Work on the Valuation of the Funds’ Investments 
 
              21.        The procedures performed by the audit team to audit the valuation of the Funds’ 
investments are identified in the audit workpapers.  According to the workpapers, the basis for the 
values for the convertibles securities was “quotes received from approximately six brokers” that 
Strafaci traded with.  The workpapers, however, do not include either the quotes that were 
supposedly the source of Strafaci’s values or any indication that the audit team reviewed those 
quotes. 
 

                                                 
5
             Convertibles' long securities positions consisted of forty-seven convertible preferreds and 
       seventy convertible bonds.  Series II's long positions consisted of smaller positions in 
       some of those securities.  For its audits of Series II and Fixed Income, the audit team took 
       no separate steps to test the valuation of the convertible securities in which those funds 
       were invested, directly in the case of Series II and indirectly in the case of Fixed Income.   
                                                 7  
                                                   
---------------------Page 8---------------------

              22.        Although the audit team did not obtain the quotes that supposedly supported 
Strafaci’s values, it did obtain from the Funds’ prime brokers the statements of the Funds’ accounts 
as of December 31, 2000.  These statements listed market values for the convertible securities held 
by the Funds.  According to the workpapers, the audit team’s analysis of the prime broker 
statements revealed that Strafaci’s valuation of the convertible bonds and preferreds held by 
Convertibles exceeded the prime brokers’ valuation of those securities by approximately $274 
million, or 13.5%.  Stoler did not discuss this material difference with anyone at Lipper Holdings, 
and the workpapers do not indicate how the audit team resolved this difference.  This difference, 
moreover, ignored the impact of leverage on the portfolio.  Had the audit team considered the effect 
of leverage, it would have seen that the prime brokers’ prices indicated that Convertibles’ partners’ 
capital was overstated by approximately 48%.  The workpapers do not reflect any consideration of 
the impact of the Funds’ leverage on the differences produced by the prime broker test.  
 
              23.        According to the workpapers, the audit team also used “Bloomberg to obtain an 
independent price for 65% of the total market value of positions held at 12/31/00.”  The 
Bloomberg prices then were compared to Strafaci’s values and “any significant variances” were to 
be noted.  Any Bloomberg prices that were “greater than 2%   of what Lipper Convertibles has 
recorded” were to be “independently confirmed” by “directly contact[ing]” the brokers with whom 
Convertibles traded and from whom Strafaci purportedly obtained the quotes on which he based 
his values for the securities “so that they may confirm the price of the positions.”   
 
 24. The Bloomberg comparis             on indicated, and the workpapers noted, that the tested 
portion of Convertibles portfolio was overstated by approximately 12.9%.  Strafaci’s values for 
thirty-four of the forty-four convertible bonds and nineteen of the twenty convertible preferreds 
tested differed by 2% or more from the corresponding Bloomberg prices, with Strafaci’s values 
being higher for all but four securities.  Strafaci’s values for almost half of the preferreds exceeded 
the Bloomberg prices by 20% or more, and his values for almost half of the bonds exceeded the 
Bloomberg prices by 5% or more.  Had the audit team taken leverage into account, it would have 
seen that the Bloomberg test indicated that Convertibles’ partners’ capital was overstated by 
approximately 34.4%.  The workpapers do not reflect any consideration of the impact of the 
Funds’ leverage on the differences produced by the Bloomberg test.  
 
              25.        The audit program called for the team to further test the valuation of securities for 
which Strafaci’s value differed from Bloomberg’s price by more than 2% by asking the broker-
dealers from whom Strafaci had purportedly obtained the quotes that were the basis for his values 
to “confirm the prices of the positions.”  
 
              26.        To perform this test, a junior auditor sent faxes to institutional salespeople at five 
broker-dealers asking them to “please verify that the attached schedule of broker quotes as of 
12/31/00 were [sic] provided by you to Lipper Convertibles,” by signing the schedules “for our 
records,” and faxing them back.  The faxes contained no further instruction or explanation.  The 
attached schedules listed the fifty-four securities as to which Strafaci’s value had differed from 
Bloomberg’s price by more than 2%, with Strafaci’s value listed next to each security.  Each 

                                                8  
                                                  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

salesperson received the same list of fifty-four securities, regardless of whether his firm traded in, 
or previously provided a quote to the Fund for, a particular security.    
 
              27.        Of the five broker-dealer “confirmations” obtained by the audit team, four were 
faxed back with the salesperson’s signature on the schedule and without any notation or comment 
(the so-called “clean confirmations”).  Only one was returned with any indication that the 
salesperson had actually reviewed any of the values.  That “confirmation,” from Broker A, was 
unsigned and noted a bid-ask range next to Strafaci's value for eight of the fifty-four securities 
listed.  For seven of the eight, Strafaci’s value was significantly higher than even the ask-side price 
provided by Broker A. 
 
              28.        The confirmation process was flawed in several significant respects.  For example, 
although the audit team asked the salespeople to verify “that the attached schedule of broker quotes 
. . . were [sic] provided by you to Lipper Convertibles,” the attached schedule was not a schedule 
of quotes that the broker-dealer had provided but rather was a schedule prepared by the audit team, 
listing Strafaci’s values for the securities.  The faxes did not ask the salespeople to provide quotes 
for the specified securities or ask them to attest to the reasonableness of the values listed on the 
schedules.  As a result, except for Broker A, there is no evidence in the workpapers that the 
salespeople who returned signed confirmations had actually ascertained the broker-dealer’s quote 
or valued the security.  In addition, each broker-dealer’s salesperson was asked to “confirm” values 
for a large number of securities (fifty-four), without regard to whether the firm made a market in 
the securities.  These flaws made the confirmation process unreliable. 
 
       The Evaluation of the Audit Evidence 
  
              29.        The workpapers show the substantial gap between Strafaci’s values and the prices 
the audit team obtained from the independent sources.  For example, the audit team obtained prices 
from Bloomberg for the Chiquita $3.75, MGC Comm., Loral and Intermedia 144a securities held 
by Convertibles.  The Bloomberg prices were, respectively, 88.5%, 78.9%, 64.8% and 63.2% 
lower than the Strafaci’s values.  The differences between Strafaci’s values and the independent 
prices for these four securities and selected other examples are shown below: 
 
 Security                    Strafaci   Bloomberg           Prime      Broker A 
                                Value          Price       Broker       Confirm 
                                                             Price     Average* 
      
 Chiquita $3.75                $31.00          $3.56         $3.56            n/a 
 Human Genome 5%               157.00         138.02        138.00        122.56 
 Human Genome 3.75%            100.00          83.88         84.00         81.06 
 Intermedia 144a                33.00          12.15           9.99           n/a 
 Liberty Media                  90.00          68.08         66.50         67.37 
 Loral                          31.22          11.00         12.60            n/a 
 MGC Comm.                      35.54            7.50          7.50           n/a 
 United Global Comm.            39.00          15.88         15.88            n/a 

                                                9  
                                                 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

              *  Represents average of bid/ask range provide by Broker A. 
 
              30.        The prime broker prices, the Bloomberg prices, and the quotes obtained from 
Broker A all constituted evidence that Strafaci’s values were significantly higher than market 
prices or fair value.  Other than stating “no exceptions were noted,” the workpapers contain no 
indication as to how the audit team evaluated that evidence.  Thus, the workpapers do not 
document the basis for the unqualified audit reports PwC issued on the Funds’ financial statements.  
 
              31.        The evidence obtained by the audit team was insufficient to support Strafaci’s 
values or PwC’s unqualified audit reports.  Most of that evidence indicated that Strafaci’s valuation 
of the Funds’ assets was substantially overstated, as discussed at paragraphs 22-24 and 29 above.   
The “clean” confirmations were insufficient to support that valuation because they were unreliable, 
as discussed at paragraphs 26-28 above.   
 
              32.        Stoler ignored, discounted, or failed to apprise himself of, the evidence produced by 
the audit tests and the flaws in the confirmation process discussed above.  Thus, he failed to 
exercise due professional care and maintain an attitude of professional skepticism, failed to obtain 
sufficient competent evidential matter concerning the valuation of the Funds’ assets, and failed to 
adequately supervise the assistants working on the audit.   
 
              33.        The workpapers for the 1998 and 1999 audits – on which Stoler was also the 
engagement partner – reflect similar failures to exercise professional skepticism and obtain 
competent evidential matter to support Strafaci’s valuation of the Funds’ assets and PwC’s 
unqualified reports on the Funds’ financial statements.  In the 1998 audits, for example, the 
confirmation process produced broker-dealer quotes lower than Strafaci’s values, which suggested 
that his values were substantially overstated.  The only documented consideration of the results of 
the confirmation process indicates that the audit team simply accepted Strafaci’s self-serving 
explanation for why his values were higher, without taking any steps to test that explanation.  
 
        Stoler Signed Unqualified Audit Reports 
 
 34. On February 26,            2001, Stoler, on behalf of PwC, signed Reports of Independent 
Accountants for each Fund stating, in part, that in PwC’s opinion the Fund’s “statements of 
financial condition, including the condensed schedule of investments, and the related statements of 
. . . changes in partners’ capital . . . present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of,” 
the Fund, at December 31, 2000.  The audit reports further stated that the financial statements were 
presented in conformity with GAAP and that PwC’s audit had been conducted in accordance with 
GAAS.     
 
              35.        On March 1, 2001, as required by Section 17 of the Exchange Act and Rule 17a-5 
thereunder, Convertibles and Series II filed their audited annual financial statements with the 
Commission, which included PwC’s reports on the financial stat  ements.  Also included were 
PwC’s supplemental reports describing any material inadequacies found since the date of the 

                                                10  
                                                   
---------------------Page 11---------------------

previous audit (commonly referred to as "internal control reports").  The internal control reports, 
which Stoler signed on behalf of PwC, stated in part: 
 
       A material weakness is a condition in which the design or operation of one or more 
       of the specific internal control components does not reduce to a relatively low level 
       the risk that error or fraud in amounts that would be material in relation to the 
       employees in the normal course of performing their assigned functions.  However, 
       we noted no matters involving internal control, including procedures for 
       safeguarding securities, that we consider to be material weaknesses as defined 
       above. 
 
              36.        The Funds’ long securities were not valued in conformity with GAAP because, 
among other reasons, Strafaci valued the convertible bonds and convertible preferred stock in 
which the Funds were invested at prices higher than readily available market prices.  Moreover, the 
Funds failed to maintain supporting documentation for Strafaci’s valuation.  Accordingly, the 
Funds’ 2000 financial statements were not presented in conformity with GAAP.  In addition, the 
audits of the financial statements were not conducted in accordance with GAAS and the internal 
control reports filed by Convertibles and Series II were inaccurate. 
 
E.     Violations by the Funds, Strafaci, and Lipper Holdings  
 
              37.        Strafaci, a senior official of the Funds and Lipper Holdings, caused those entities to 
make materially misleading statements to investors in the offer or sale, and in connection with the 
purchase or sale, of interests in the Funds, concerning the value and performance of the Funds, and 
the method by which the Funds’ portfolio securities were valued. Interests in the Funds were 
securities within the meaning of Section 2(a)(1) of the Securities Act.  Investors and potential 
investors in the Funds were, respectively, clients and potential clients under the Advisers Act and 
are referred to herein as “investors/clients” and “prospective investors/clients.”  The Funds’ audited 
financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2000 were disseminated to investors/clients 
and prospective investors/clients, along with PwC’s unqualified audit reports on those statements.  
PwC’s unqualified audit reports on those statements gave comfort to investors/clients, among 
others, that the Funds were being properly valued.  Investors/clients who received those audited 
financial statements were solicited to make, and in some cases made, investments or additional 
investments in the Funds. 
 
              38.        Strafaci’s conduct, which is attributable to the Funds and Lipper Holdings, in the 
offer and sale of interests in the Funds violated, among other provisions, Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) 
of the Securities Act, in that Strafaci, the Funds, and Lipper Holdings directly and indirectly, by the 
use of the means or instruments of transportation or communication in, or the means or 
instrumentalities of, interstate commerce, or by use of the mails, in the offer or sale of interests in 
the Funds: (a) obtained money or property by means of untrue statements of material fact or 
omitted to state material facts necessary in order to make the statements made, in the light of the 
circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and (b) engaged in transactions, 
practices and courses of business which operated or would have operated as a fraud or deceit upon 

                                                11  
                                                  
---------------------Page 12---------------------

purchasers of interests in the Funds.  In addition, by virtue of Strafaci’s fraudulent valuations, 
Lipper Holdings violated Section 206(2) of the Advisers Act in that it engaged in acts, practices or 
courses of business which operated as a fraud or deceit upon clients and prospective clients.  
Scienter is not required to establish violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities 
Act or Section 206(2) of the Advisers Act.  Steadman v. SEC, 603 F.2d 1126, 1133 (5   th
                                                                                        Cir. 1979).  
 
              39.        Section 17 of the Exchange Act and Rule 17a-5(d) thereunder generally require 
registered broker-dealers to file with the Commission, among other things, audited financial 
statements on an annual basis.  Pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of Rule 17a-5, the audit “shall be 
made in accordance with [GAAS],” and “shall include a review of the accounting system, the 
internal accounting controls and procedures for safeguarding securities.”  Further, pursuant to 
paragraph (j) of that Rule, a registered broker-dealer must file, “concurrently with its annual audit 
report, a supplemental report by the accountant describing any material inadequacies found to have 
existed since the date of the previous audit.”  Pursuant to paragraph (g)(3) of that Rule, the term 
“material inadequacy” includes “a material inadequacy in the accounting system, internal 
accounting controls, and procedures for safeguarding securities [. . .] which has contributed 
substantially to or, if appropriate action is not taken, could reasonably be expected to [. . .] result in 
material misstatements in the broker’s or dealer’s financial statements.”  Implicit in the 
requirement that a registered broker-dealer file an audited annual financial report is the requirement 
that the information contained in those reports be accurate.  See Nikko Securities Co. International, 
Inc., Exchange Act Release No. 32331 (May 19, 1993).  Because the audits of Convertibles’ and 
Series II’s financial statements were not conducted in accordance with GAAS and because the 
internal controls reports they filed were inaccurate, Convertibles and Series II violated Section 17 
of the Exchange Act and Rule 17a-5 thereunder.   
 
F.     Applicable GAAS  
 
              40.        Under GAAS, an auditor must exercise due professional care in performing the 
audits of financial statements and preparing the audit reports.6
                                                                “Due professional care” requires, 
among other things, that auditors: (a) exercise due professional care in the planning and 
performance of the audit, and professional skepticism in assessing audit evidence; and (b) obtain 
sufficient competent evidential matter through inspection, observation, inquiries, and confirmations 
to afford a reasonable basis for their opinions regarding financial statements under audit. AU 230, 
230.07 & 326.01.  The requirement to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter dictates that 
the evidence obtained through the audit “be sufficient for the auditor to form conclusions 
concerning the validity of the individual assertions embodied in the components of financial 
statements.”  AU 326.13.  The auditor should “consider relevant evidential matter regardless of 

                                                 
6
             During the relevant period, GAAS was embodied in various Statements on Auditing 
       Standards (“SAS”), as well as the Codification of Statements of Auditing Standards 
       (“AU”), both issued by the Auditing Standards Board of the American Institute of 
       Certified Public Accountants.  The citations herein are to the  Codification in effect at the 
       time of the 2000 audits. 
                                                12  
                                                  
---------------------Page 13---------------------

whether it appears to corroborate or contradict the assertions in the financial statements.”  AU 
326.25.   
      
              41.        GAAS further requires that audits be adequately planned and assistants be properly 
supervised.  AU 311.01.  Supervision includes keeping informed of problems encountered, 
assuring that the work of subordinates is properly performed, and assuring that the audit work 
supports the conclusions reached.  AU 311.11 & 311.13.  One factor to be considered in planning 
an audit is “[c]onditions that may require extension or modification of audit tests.”  AU 311.03.  
Moreover, “[t]he auditor's understanding of internal control may heighten or mitigate the auditor’s 
concern about the risk of material misstatement.”  AU 312.16.  Accordingly, GAAS requires 
auditors to evaluate whether the audited entity’s controls that address identified risks of material 
misstatement due to fraud have been suitably designed and used to assess these risks.  AU 316.21-
.25.  Among the risk factors indicative of possible misstatements due to fraud are: (1) management 
compensation that is based in significant part on incentives, the value of which is contingent; and 
(2) inadequate monitoring of significant controls.  AU 316.16-.19. 
 
G.     Findings 
 
              42.        In the 2000 audits, Stoler failed to comply with GAAS because he did not exercise 
due professional care and professional skepticism, obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to 
support the auditor’s opinion on the financial statements, or adequately supervise the work of 
assistants.  In those audits, he ignored, discounted, or failed to apprise himself of, the substantial 
audit evidence that Strafaci’s values for the Funds’ investments were not presented in accordance 
with GAAP and were materially overstated, and the flaws in the process that produced the “clean” 
confirmations.  In light of his awareness of the inadequacies of the Funds’ internal controls on 
valuation, and Strafaci’s and Lipper Holdings’ incentive compensation, Stoler's deviations from 
GAAS were highly unreasonable.   
 
              43.        By engaging in the conduct described above in the 2000 audits, Stoler engaged in 
improper professional conduct within the meaning of Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules 
of Practice because his conduct constituted negligent conduct within the meaning of Rule 
102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(1), consisting of a single instance of highly unreasonable conduct that resulted in 
a violation of applicable professional standards in circumstances in which Stoler knew, or should 
have known, that heightened scrutiny was warranted. 
 
              44.        By engaging in the conduct described above in the 2000 audits, Stoler was a cause 
of Strafaci's and the Funds’ violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act, Lipper 
Holdings’ violations of Section 206(2) of the Advisers Act, and Convertibles’ and Series II’s 
violations of Section 17 of the Exchange Act and Rule 17a-5 thereunder, because he knew or 
should have known that his failure to conduct and supervise an audit that conformed to GAAS and 
his approval of, and signature on, unqualified audit reports on the Funds’ 2000 financial 
statements, and the internal controls reports, would contribute to those violations, including the 
Funds’ and Lipper Holdings’ false representations to investors/clients and prospective 

                                                13  
                                                  
---------------------Page 14---------------------

investors/client about the Funds’ value and performance and Convertibles’ and Series II’s filings of 
inaccurate annual audited financial reports.  
 
                                                  IV. 
                                                    
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Stoler’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.          Stoler shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act and Section 206(2) of the 
Advisers Act, and from causing any violations and any future violations of Section 17 of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 17a-5 thereunder.  
 
              B.          Stoler is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant.   
 
              C.          After one year from the date of this order, Stoler may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                    1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such an 
application must satisfy the Commission that Stoler’s work in his practice before the Commission 
will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company for which he 
works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the Commission in this 
capacity; and/or 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                                         (a)         Stoler, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Stoler, or the registered p                        ublic accounting firm with which he is 
associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of or 
potential defects in the Stoler’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that the 
Stoler will not receive appropriate supervision; 
 
   (c) Stoler has resolved all disc                        iplinary issues with the Board, and has 
complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                                                  14  
                                                    
---------------------Page 15---------------------

 
   (d) Stoler acknowledges his res                                     ponsibility, as long as he appears or 
practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all requirements of 
the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to 
registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
      
         D.          The Commission will consider an application by Stoler to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, if 
state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an 
application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in 
addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Stoler’s character, integrity, 
professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

                                                           15  
                                                              
