---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED                            STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                     the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No.  8665 / February 27, 2006 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  53381 / February 27, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2386 / February 27, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12221 
 
                                             
In the Matter of                             
                                             
             SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.          ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
             and SUN COMMUNITIES            PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO SECTION 8A 
             OPERATING LIMITED              OF THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 AND 
             PARTNERSHIP,                   SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                                  EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING 
Respondents.                                FINDINGS AND IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-
                                            DESIST ORDER  

 
 
 
 
                                          I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC” or “Commission”) deems it appropriate 
that cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the 
Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Exchange Act”), against Sun Communities, Inc. (“Sun”) and Sun Communities Operating 
Limited Partnership (“SCOLP”) (collectively “Respondents”).   
                                           
                                         II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and over the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting  Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21C of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds1
                                                                                  that:  
 
A.     RESPONDENTS 
 
        Sun Communities, Inc. is a self-administered and self-m anaged real estate investment 
trust.  Sun, as the general partner of Sun Communities Operating Limited Partnership, owns, 
operates, develops and finances manufactured housing communities concentrated in the 
Midwestern and Southeastern United States.  Sun went public in 1993.  The common stock of Sun 
is registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and is listed on the New York Stock 
Exchange.  Sun incorporated their Forms 10-K and 10-Q in offers of their securities from 2000 
through 2002.  
  
       Sun Communities Operating Limited Partnership is the main operating subsidiary 
through which Sun owns, operates, develops and finances manufactured housing communities.  
SCOLP was a separate SEC filer until May 2004 when it suspended its SEC filings.  Sun also 
consolidated SCOLP’s financial statements in its own financial statements during the time at issue 
in this Order.  SCOLP incorporated their Forms 10-K and 10-Q in offers of their securities during 
the time at issue. 
                
 
B. SUMMARY 
 
       This matter involves false and misleading financial reporting in Sun’s financial statements 
and in SCOLP’s separate financial statements included in the periodic reports filed with the 
Commission for fiscal years 2000 through 2002.  As a result of this improper reporting, Sun and 
SCOLP violated Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act2
                                                                     and various reporting, 
record-keeping and internal control provisions of the Exchange Act.  In all three years, Sun 
(through SCOLP) failed to properly account for losses in its investment in SunChamp, LLC 
(“SunChamp”), a limited liability company it formed with Champion Enterprises, Inc. 
(“Champion”) to develop manufactured housing communities. 
        
                                                 
1
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not binding 
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
2
               Establishing violations of Section 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) does not require a showing of scienter.  Aaron v. 
SEC, 446 U.S. 680, 697 (1980).  
                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       In particular, during the relevant periods, through sales of its members’ interests in 
SCOLP-controlled limited liability companies that held the SunChamp interests, SCOLP sold 
portions of its interests in SunChamp to four outside investors.  While these transactions had 
economic substance as between the parties, Sun should have applied Accounting Principles Board 
Opinion No. 18, “The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments In Common Stock” (March 
1971), (“APB 18”), Statement of Position 78-9, “Accounting for Investments in Real Estate 
Ventures” (“SOP 78-9”) and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 66, “Accounting 
for Sales of Real Estate” (“FAS 66”) in recognizing its share of SunChamp losses when applying 
the equity method of accounting.  Under APB 18, SOP 78-9 and FAS 66, ownership did not 
transfer to the outside investors and therefore, Sun should have recorded additional SunChamp 
losses to reflect its share of SunChamp. 
        
       Sun and SCOLP also failed to comply with other generally accepted accounting principles 
(“GAAP”) during that time.  For example, Sun used a 90-day lag in recording SunChamp’s losses 
and recorded the effect of certain of the sale agreements with investors prior to the closing dates.  
In addition, Sun erroneously established reserves, unrelated to SunChamp.  The effect of some of 
these entries was to shift earnings and losses between quarters. 
          
              As a consequence of these actions, Sun and SCOLP have violated Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) 
of the Securities Act and Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and 
Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-13, and 13b2-1 thereunder.  
 
C. FACTS 
 
              1.        Creation of SunChamp 
 
       Sun acquires, operates and expands manufactured housing communities.    SunChamp is a 
joint venture that was formed in 1999 by a subsidiary of SCOLP (Sun/Forest, LLC) and a 
subsidiary of Champion Enterprises (MHCDC), a large producer of manufactured homes.  
SunChamp was organized to purchase and develop manufactured housing communities.  Pursuant 
to the terms of the agreement, SCOLP ceded day-to-day management of SunChamp to a Champion 
subsidiary.  SCOLP retained rights and responsibilities as to SunChamp: 1) SCOLP had the right 
to approve operating and construction budgets, 2) SCOLP had the right to approve all new 
acquisitions of properties, 3) SCOLP was obligated to fund 50% of the operating losses, 4) SCOLP 
was obligated to fund 75% of budgeted capital costs for acquiring, developing, and expanding 
communities and 5) Sun’s affiliates provided loans to SunChamp as additional financing.  
 
       2.     Transactions with Outside Investors 
 
       In late September 2000, Sun completed the transfer of a portion of its investment in 
SunChamp to an entity owned by a Champion executive for $3.2 million cash.  In October 2000, 
Sun completed the transfer of an additional portion of its SunChamp ownership to another outside 
investor for $2 million in cash and $4 million in non-recourse promissory notes.  Finally, in July 
2001, Sun completed the transfers of a portion of its SunChamp ownership to two outside investors 
for a total of $2 million cash and $4 million in non-recourse promissory notes.  In these July 2001 

                                               3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

transfers, Sun exercised its right to redeem the interest sold in the October sale by $2 million and 
reduced the note received in that transaction from $4 million to $2 million.  In total, the transfers in 
October 2000 and July 2001 to three outside investors that involved seller (SCOLP) financing 
resulted in SCOLP’s selling interests in SunChamp totaling $10 million in exchange for $4 million 
in cash and $6 million in non-recourse notes.  SCOLP’s ownership in SunChamp increased during 
this period as a result of several capital contributions it made to SunChamp during the year. 
 
        3.      Application of APB 18 – Cost and Equity Method Accounting 
         
        Pursuant to APB 18, when an investor does not hold a controlling interest of an investment 
in a corporate subsidiary, there are two recommended methods to account for the investment - the 
cost method or the equity method of accounting.    3
                                                      If the investor has the ability to exercise 
significant influence over the investment, then it must use equity method accounting for that 
investment.  If the investor owns 20% or more of a corporation’s voting stock, it is presumed to 
have the ability to exercise significant influence over the investment and thus, unless demonstrated 
otherwise, it is required to use the equity method. 4
                                                       If the investor owns less than 20% of a 
corporation’s voting stock, it is presumed to not have the ability to exercise significant influence 
over the investment unless demonstrated otherwise.     5
                                                          

        The 20% ownership measure is not a bright line test.  APB 18 outlines several other factors 
to consider in determining whether a company has significant influence over an investment in a 
corporate subsidiary.  Those factors include: 1) representation on the board of directors; 2) 
participation in the policy-making processes; 3) significant intercompany transactions; and 4) 
investee dependence on the investor.  Finally, GAAP guidance concludes that the equity method is 
the preferred method for investors in corporate joint ventures to reflect the nature of their 
investment in the venture. 6

                                                 
3
               APB No. 18, ¶ 17.  The usual condition for control is ownership of a majority (over 50%) of the 
outstanding voting stock.  The power to control may also exist with a lesser percentage of ownership. 
 
4
        The equity method requires a company to record its initial investment at cost on its balance sheet.  When the 
equity interest generates earnings or incurs losses, the investor’s proportionate share of those earnings or losses must be 
recorded in the investor’s income statement and the investment amount on the balance sheet is adjusted by the amount 
of earnings and/or losses.  Under the cost method, an investor records its investment on its balance sheet at cost “and 
recognizes as income dividends received that are distributed from net accumulated earnings of the investee since the 
date of acquisition by the investor.”  APB 18 ¶6a.  
 
5
               Emerging Issues Task Force 00-01, “Investor Balance Sheet and Income Statement Display under the 
Equity Method for Investments in Certain Partnerships and Other Ventures,” states that investors in unincorporated 
entities such as partnerships and other unincorporated joint ventures generally account for their investments using 
the equity method of accounting by analogy to APB 18 if the investor has the ability to exercise significant influence 
over the investee.  Guidance as to the accounting for investments in limited liability companies was issued in March 
2004 in EITF Issue No. 03-16, “Accounting for Investments in Limited Liability Companies.”  EITF 03-16 
concluded that the provisions of SOP 78-9 and related guidance also apply to such limited liability companies.    
 
6
               APB 18 ¶16 and Statement of Position 78-9, "Accounting for Investments in Real Estate Ventures,” 
December 1974 (“SOP 78-9”) ¶4.   
 
                                                    4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       4.           Sun’s Non-GAAP Accounting for SunChamp 
        
               a.      Incorrect Use of Bright Line Test 
 
              Sun improperly accounted for its investment in SunChamp from January 1, 2000 through 
December 31, 2002, primarily by recognizing for accounting purposes sales of its SunChamp 
interest to outside investors.  Beginning in the third quarter of 2000, SCOLP transferred portions of 
its SunChamp ownership to outside investors to, among other things, reduce its ownership below 
20%, with the belief that doing so would allow Sun to not apply the equity method of accounting 
and thereby not record SunChamp losses in its financial statements.  After recognizing each of the 
transfers of SunChamp ownership to four outside investors, Sun determined that it owned less than 
20% of SunChamp.  However, Sun failed to properly consider whether it had the ability to exercise 
significant influence over SunChamp.  Hence Sun did not record any of SunChamp’s operating 
losses during the third and fourth quarters of 2000 and all of 2001.  This determination was not 
supported by GAAP.  
 
                     b.          Equity method accounting under SOP 78-9  
 
       In this case, because Sun transferred portions of its interest in SunChamp to outside 
investors -- transfers that were in substance transfers of real estate – Sun’s interest in SunChamp 
should have been calculated based on the substantive economic rights and obligations as set forth 
in the SunChamp Operating Agreement.  Sun was required to consider whether the transactions 
transferred the risks and rewards of ownership for accounting purposes.   

              SOP 78-9 requires that Sun record its proportionate share of the SunChamp losses 
otherwise allocable to the outside investors if it is probable that those investors will not bear their 
share of the losses.  Thus, Sun should not have reduced its proportionate share of SunChamp 
ownership represented by the non-recourse promissory notes because it is not probable that the 
outside investors will bear their share of the losses associated with that portion of ownership.   
 
       SOP 78-9 also presents recommendations on accounting for investments in real estate 
ventures.  It states that the sale of an investment in a real estate venture is the equivalent of a sale of 
an interest in the underlying real estate and should be evaluated under the guidelines set forth in 
FAS 66. 7

               c.           Transactions not sales under FAS 66 

              Sun was required to consider whether the transactions transferred ownership under FAS 
66.8
     Pursuant to FAS 66, ¶ 5, a seller may not recognize gains or losses on real estate sales 
transactions by the full accrual method until all of the following criteria are met:  
                                                 
7
               SOP 78-9 ¶ 39. 
  
8
               Emerging Issues Task Force No. 98-8, “Accounting for Transfers of Investments That Are in Substance Real 
Estate” (May 21, 1998), states that the sale or transfer of an investment in the form of a financial asset that is in 
substance real estate should be accounted for in accordance with FAS 66.  As noted, neither the accounting personnel at 
Sun nor, despite full disclosure of the agreements and details regarding the sales transactions, their outside auditor 
                                                  5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 
   1.  A sale is consummated.  
   2.  The buyer’s initial and continuing investments are adequate to demonstrate a commitment 
       to pay for the property.  
   3.  The seller’s receivable is not subject to future subordination.  
   4.  The seller has transferred to the buyer the usual risks and rewards of ownership in a 
       transaction that is in substance a sale and does not have a substantial continuing 
       involvement with the property.  
  
                       (1)         Three of the four buyers did not demonstrate a commitment to 
                               pay  

       SCOLP’s last three transfers did not satisfy the criterion of FAS 66 requiring that the 
“buyer’s initial and continuing investments are adequate to demonstrate a commitment to pay for 
the property,” because the payments of three of the buyers were from one half to two thirds funded 
by non-recourse notes.  The notes were drafted so that the investors could accrue, rather than pay, 
interest until the due dates and required accelerated payment of principal and interest only from 
money returned to them from the operations of SunChamp or from cash distributions from the 
SunChamp properties.   9
                         If the investors fail to pay the notes when due, SCOLP’s sole recourse is to 
look to the investors’ interests in SunChamp for payment.  Thus, the outside investors’ continuing 
investment is not adequate to demonstrate “a commitment to pay for the property” over and above 
the cash portion they put down.   

                       (2)         Sun did not transfer risks and rewards and had continuing 
                               involvement with SunChamp 

              SCOLP’s transfers of interests to all of the outside investors also did not satisfy the 
criterion of FAS 66 requiring that the “seller has transferred to the buyer the usual risks and 
rewards of ownership in a transaction that is in substance a sale and does not have a substantial 
continuing involvement with the property.”  After the transfers of the members’ interests, SCOLP 
still had “continuing involvement” with the SunChamp properties.  SCOLP retained the right to 
purchase certain eligible properties once they reach 92% occupancy, at a price set by a specific 
formula.  Once certain eligible properties reach 95% occupancy, SCOLP has a similar purchase 
right and MHCDC has the right to require SCOLP to purchase those eligible properties, at a price 
set by a specific formula.  SCOLP’s continuing involvement with the underlying SunChamp real 
estate properties constitutes a continuing involvement with the members’ interests sold by SCOLP 
to the investors.  Finally, Sun did not give the outside investors the right to pledge or exchange 
their interest in the assets they received.  Therefore, this transaction should be accounted for as a 
financing, leasing or profit-sharing arrangement rather than as a sale.    
                                                                                                                                                             
recommended or considered the application of FAS 66 to the sales during their review of the relevant period financial 
statements. 
 
9
               In addition, the notes were not supported by irrevocable letters of credit from independent established lending 
institutions, one of the criteria listed in FAS 66 as establishing adequate initial investments.  Further, the outside 
investors were not contractually required to pay each year on their non-recourse notes to Sun, one criteria of FAS 66 
for establishing adequate continuing investment.   
                                                  6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 
              5.           Sun Should Have Used Equity Method Accounting at All Times 

              Because Sun never should have treated the transfers to outside investors as sales under 
APB 18, SOP 78-9 and FAS 66, Sun retained ownership of greater than 20% of SunChamp for 
accounting purposes at all times prior to consolidating SunChamp.  Thus, under APB 18, Sun was 
presumed to exercise significant influence over SunChamp during that time.  In fact, Sun did 
exercise significant influence over SunChamp.  Aside from its ownership interest, Sun’s significant 
influence is evidenced by numerous facts which did not change after the transactions with the 
outside investors.  SCOLP relinquished none of its managerial rights to the outside investors, who 
were purely passive investors.  SCOLP continued to participate in the policy-making processes of 
SunChamp by exercising its voting rights on half the seats on the equivalent of SunChamp’s Board 
of Directors.  SCOLP approved operating and construction budgets and all new acquisitions of 
properties by SunChamp.  Sun also engaged in significant related party transactions with 
SunChamp, by providing subordinated debt financing to SunChamp.  Finally, SunChamp was 
financially dependent on Sun because, unlike the outside investors, Sun provided financing to 
SunChamp and SCOLP was required to provide financial support through equity contributions.   

       6.           Improper application of GAAP resulted in materially overstated financial 
              statements 
 
              Because Sun incorrectly determined not to apply equity method accounting to SunChamp 
from July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2001, it did not record SunChamp’s losses for those years.  
Thus, Sun materially overstated its income from July 1, 2000 through December 31, 2001, as 
reported in its SEC periodic filings.  Thus, Sun’s Form 10-K for fiscal year 2000 and its Form 10-
Q for the third quarter of 2000 contained material overstatements of income.  Likewise, Sun’s 
Form 10-K for fiscal year 2001 and its Forms 10-Q for all quarters of 2001 contained material 
overstatements of income. 
 
              In 2002, SCOLP made additional capital contributions to SunChamp.  The outside 
investors made no additional cash contributions nor were they required to contribute additional 
cash unless they wished to maintain their percentage ownership in the SunChamp interests.  Sun 
believed its contributions would eventually increase its ownership of SunChamp to greater than 
20%.  Thus, beginning in the first quarter of 2002, Sun applied equity method accounting for its 
interest in SunChamp.  However, Sun continued to improperly account for the SunChamp 
investment by, among other things, failing to disregard the transfers to the outside investors when 
determining what percentage of SunChamp losses to record under the equity method.  Sun thus 
recorded a smaller amount of SunChamp losses on its financial statements than required under 
GAAP.  This incorrect determination led Sun to materially overstate its income on its Form 10-K 
for 2002 and all of its Forms 10-Q for 2002, as filed with the SEC.  These financial statements all 
were reviewed (as to quarters) and audited (as to years) by Sun’s outside auditor and Sun’s annual 
financial statements for the periods were opined on by its outside auditor without qualification. 
 
     
    
    
                                               7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

          7.          Sun’s Other Non-GAAP Accounting from January 1, 2000 to December 31, 
               2002 
 
                     a.  90-Day Lag 
        
              During 2000 and 2002, Sun used a 90-day lag in recording SunChamp’s losses on its 
financial statements because it believed that there were impediments to timely recordation of 
accurate numbers.  This belief was not justified.  Sun’s improper use of a 90-day lag enabled Sun 
to avoid recording SunChamp’s second quarter losses in the third quarter of 2000.   

       Sun’s auditor told Sun that the SEC was generally opposed to reporting on a lag because 
of its interest in real time reporting.  The auditor recommended that Sun consider a shorter lag 
period.  Sun did not employ a shorter lag period or forego the lag.  Sun’s application of a 90-day 
lag was not factually supported and thus was not justified under GAAP.   

                            b.   Premature Recognition of Transactions with Outside Investors 
 
              During 2000 and 2001, Sun made the agreements with three outside investors effective 
months before all of the details of the agreements were finalized, the papers were signed, or money 
changed hands.  Thus, Sun accounted for transactions with the outside investors before the parties 
had reached final agreement.  Sun considered the transactions effective at the time of alleged oral 
agreements, despite having nothing in writing to record the transactions, and no down payment.  
Accounting for these transactions before they were finalized had the effect of reducing Sun’s 
perceived ownership percentage in SunChamp prematurely in several quarters.  Sun’s application 
of this method reduced Sun’s perceived ownership below 20%, thereby, in Sun’s view at the time, 
avoiding equity method accounting, and thus avoiding the recording of any SunChamp losses in 
several quarters.  These accounting conclusions were not justified and were in violation of GAAP.  
Thus, Sun materially overstated its income for those quarters, as reported in its SEC periodic 
filings.    

       For example, Sun accounted for one of the transactions in the third quarter of 2000 
although the investor did not sign a binding letter of intent until the fourth quarter of 2000 (October 
6, 2000) and the deal did not close until October 26, 2000.  According to Sun, this transaction had 
the effect of reducing Sun’s ownership percentage below 20% for the third quarter of 2000.  Thus, 
even under Sun’s flawed view of the equity method (i.e., utilizing a 20% bright line approach and 
treating the transfers to the outside investors as sales), Sun should not have changed to the cost 
method in the third quarter of 2000 since the investment was not finalized until after September 30, 
2000. 

                           c.  General Reserve Account and Expense Accrual 
 
           Sun maintained reserves for which either the justification was not sufficient under GAAP, 
or for which the justifications had ceased to exist.  For example, in 2000 and 2001, Sun 
maintained improper reserves as well as reserves for expenses against a gain on sale of real estate 
assets unrelated to SunChamp in an account called “accrued expenses.”   

                                                8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

 
              Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5, “Accounting for Contingencies,” 
(“FAS 5”), ¶8, states that “a loss contingency...shall be accrued...if...it is probable that an asset 
had been impaired or a liability had been incurred at the date of the financial statements 
...[and]...the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.”  Moreover, FAS 5, ¶14 expressly 
prohibits general reserves.  Because Sun’s potential exposure wa s not reasonably estimable, the 
reserves were not recorded in conformity with FAS 5 and resulted in a misstatement of net 
income on Sun’s financial statements in the period the reserve was recorded.  
 
              Further, Sun violated GAAP by releasing excess reserves without appropriate 
justification.  While expenses related to the reserve were recorded against the reserve, unrelated 
expenses also were offset against the reserve, resulting in understatements of revenues and 
expenses.   
 
       Sun improperly recorded accrued expenses to match expenses related to seasonal revenue.  
FASB Concepts Statement No. 6, “Elements of Financial Statements,” (“Concept 6”) states that a 
liability can be released only at a determinable date, upon the occurrence of a specified event, or 
upon demand.  A change in an accounting estimate should be acc ounted for in the period of change 
if the change affects that period only, or the period of change and future periods if the change 
affects both.  GAAP does not allow for the deferral of accounting adjustments arising from a 
change in estimate or the correction of an error. 
        
              8.           Impact of Accounting Misstatements on Operating Earnings 
        
       As a result of Sun’s non-GAAP accounting, for the years ended December 31, 2000, 2001 
and 2002, Sun overstated its income by approximately $3.7 million (9%), $4.7 million (11%) and 
$2.7 million (13%), respectively. 
 
D. LEGAL ANALYSIS 
 
       As a result of the conduct described above, and given that Sun and SCOLP incorporated 
their Forms 10-K and 10-Q in offers of their securities from 2000 through 2002, Sun and SCOLP 
violated Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act from 2000 through 2002.  Sun’s 
accounting misstatements based on improper application of FAS 66 and equity accounting were 
material.  These accounting errors directly or indirectly increased reported income during a period 
by causing Sun not to record SunChamp’s losses properly.  Similarly, Sun and SCOLP violated 
Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder by filing with 
the Commission Forms 10-Q and 10-K containing materially false and misleading financial 
statements for the period January 1, 2000 through December 31, 2002.  Sun’s financial statements 
were false and misleading because they were not presented in conformity with GAAP by virtue of 
the fact that Sun: 1) failed to properly account for losses in Sun’s investment in SunChamp, 2) 
delayed recording SunChamp’s losses for 90 days and prematurely recognized transactions, and 3) 
released reserves, unrelated to SunChamp, for expenses unrelated to the establishment of the 
reserve, and 4) accrued expenses prior to the period in which they actually were expended.  
                                               9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

Finally, Sun and SCOLP violated Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and (B) in 2000 through 2002 by failing to 
make and keep accurate books and records and failing to devise and maintain sufficient internal 
accounting controls.  Sun and SCOLP also violated Rule 13b2-1 in 2000 through 2002 in 
connection with its improper use of reserves.   
        
              Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Sun and SCOLP have violated Sections 
17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act and Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-13, and 13b2-1 thereunder.  
 
                                              IV. 
 
                                         Undertakings 
 
       Respondent Sun has undertaken to: 
        
       1.     Employ an independent consultant ("Independent Consultant "), not unacceptable to 
              the staff of the Commission, to review and evaluate its internal controls, record-
              keeping, and financial reporting policies and procedures as they relate to its 
              compliance with the books and records, internal accounting controls provisions of 
              the Exchange Act in connection with its accounting for its investment in 
              SunChamp.   
        
       2.     Cooperate fully with the Independent Consultant and provide the Independent 
              Consultant with access to its files, books, records, and personnel as reasonably 
              requested for the review. 
 
       3.           Require, at the conclusion of the Independent Consultant's review of the 
              Policies and Procedures, which in no event will be more than 180 days after the 
              date of entry of the Order, the Independent Consultant to submit to Sun and to the 
              Commission staff a written report regarding the Sun’s compliance with its Policies 
              and Procedures and the adequacy of those Policies and Procedures. The report 
              shall include a description of the review performed, the conclusions reached and, if 
              necessary, make recommendations for changes in or improvements to the Policies 
              and Procedures and provide a procedure for implementing the recommended 
              changes or improvements. 
  
       4.           Within 30 days after the date of issuance of the report of the Independent 
              Consultant ("Report Date"), adopt all recommendations contained in the report and 
              remedy any deficiencies in its Policies and Procedures; provided, however, that as 
              to any recommendation that Sun believes is unnecessary or inappropriate, Sun 
              may, within 45 days of the Report Date, advise the Independent Consultant and 
              Commission staff in writing of any recommendations that it considers to be 
              unnecessary or inappropriate. With respect to any recommendation that Sun 
              considers unnecessary or inappropriate, Sun need not adopt that recommendation 
              at that time but shall propose in writing an alternative policy, procedure, or system 

                                               10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

               designed to achieve the same objective or purpose.  In the event Sun and the 
               Independent Consultant are unable to agree on an alternative proposal acceptable 
               to the Commission staff, Sun will abide by the original recommendation of the 
               Independent Consultant; 
  
       5.           Within 120 days of the Report Date, submit an affidavit to the Commission staff 
               stating that it has implemented any and all actions recommended by the 
               Independent Consultant, or explaining the circumstances under which it has not 
               implemented such actions; 
        
       6.           Require the Independent Consultant to enter into an agreement that provides that 
               for the period of engagement and for a period of two years from completion of the 
               engagement, the Independent Consultant shall not enter into any employment, 
               consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with SUN, or 
               any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents 
               acting in their capacity.  The agreement will also provide that the Independent 
               Consultant  will require that any firm with which he/she is affiliated or of which 
               he/she is a member, and any person engaged to assist the Independent Consultant 
               in performance of his/her duties under this Order shall not, without prior written 
               consent of the Commission, enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-
               client, auditing or other professional relationship with Sun, or any of its present or 
               former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity 
               as such for the period of the engagement and for a period of two years after the 
               engagement. 
        
       7.           Sun: (a) shall not have the authority to terminate the Independent Consultant 
               without the prior written approval of the Commission staff; (b) shall compensate 
               the Independent Consultant, and persons engaged to assist the Independent 
               Consultant, for services rendered pursuant to the Order at their reasonable and 
               customary rates; and (c) shall not be in and shall not have an attorney-client 
               relationship with the Independent Consultant and shall not seek to invoke the 
               attorney-client or any other doctrine or privilege to prevent the Independent 
               Consultant from transmitting any information, reports, or documents to the 
               Commission. 
                                                  
                                               V. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents Sun and SCOLP’s Offers. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
              A.       Respondents Sun and SCOLP cease and desist from committing or causing any 
violations and any future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act and Sections 

                                               11 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-13, and 
13b2-1 thereunder; and 
 
 B. Respondent Sun comply                                                                                                                                    with the undertakings in Section IV., above. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 
 
 
 

                                                                                                                                                                                              12 
