---------------------Page 1---------------------

                          UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                     Before the 

                  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 8912 / April 28, 2008 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 57725 / April 28, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2815 / April 28, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-10998 

                                     ORDER MAKING FINDINGS, IMPOSING A 
In the Matter of                     CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER PURSUANT TO 
                                     SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT OF 
      ROBERT A. PUTNAM, CPA,   1933, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL 
                                     SANCTIONS PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF 
Respondent.                          THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE 

                                         I. 

      On December 23, 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) 
instituted public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings pursuant to Section 8A of the 
Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice against Robert A. 
Putnam (“Putnam” or “Respondent”).1 

1
  Paragraph 1 of Rule 102(e) provides, in relevant part, that:  The Commission may . . . deny, 
temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before it in any way to any 
person who is found by the Commission after notice and opportunity for hearing in the matter:    
 . . . (ii) [t]o be lacking in character or integrity or to have engaged in unethical or improper 
professional conduct. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

       Following the institution of those proceedings, Putnam submitted an Offer of Settlement 
(“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of these 
proceedings and any other proceeding brought by or on behalf of the Commission or in which 
the Commission is a party, Putnam consents to the entry of this Order Making Findings, 
Imposing A Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933, and 
Imposing Remedial Sanctions Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice 
(“Order”) without admitting or denying the findings set forth in this Order, except as to the 
jurisdiction of the Commission over him and over the subject matter of these proceedings, which 
are admitted.   

       The Commission has determined that it is appropriate to accept Putnam’s Offer and 
accordingly is issuing this Order. 

                                              II. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds 2
                                                                                 that: 

                                              III. 

       Respondent 

       1.     Robert A. Putnam, age 53, is a resident of Duluth, Georgia, and was a certified 
public accountant licensed in the State of Georgia from 1984 until December 31, 2002, when his 
license expired and he did not renew it.  From 1984 to 2002, Putnam worked in the Atlanta, 
Georgia, office of Arthur Andersen LLP (“Andersen”), a national public accounting firm. At all 
times relevant to this proceeding, Andersen was a member of the SEC Practice Section of the 
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.  During all of the events described below, 
Putnam was a partner in the firm.  From September 1996 through July 1999, Putnam served as 
the audit engagement partner for Andersen’s audit and quarterly reviews of HBO and Company, 
Inc. (“HBOC”), an Atlanta-based maker of software for the healthcare industry.  Putnam also 
served as the audit engagement partner for Andersen’s audit of ebix.com, inc. (“Ebix”),3
                                                                                       a 
Chicago-based maker of software for the insurance industry. 

       Nature of Proceeding 

       2.     This matter involves Putnam’s conduct while performing accounting services, 
including auditing services, for both HBOC and Ebix.  In both matters Putnam failed to exercise 

2
  The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding 
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
3
 At the time of the conduct at issue here, Ebix was known as Delphi Information Systems, Inc. 
In September 1999, the company changed its name to “ebix.com, Inc.”  For the purposes of this 
Order Instituting Proceedings, the company is referred to as Ebix. 

                                             - 2 -

---------------------Page 3---------------------

due professional care in the performance of the audits, failed to adequately plan and supervise 
the audits, and failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to afford a reasonable basis 
for an opinion regarding the financial statements of each company.  The HBOC matter also 
involved a failure to follow appropriate procedures in reviews of interim financial information 
and consents to the use of Andersen’s reports. 

       3.     Putnam was the audit engagement partner for Andersen’s audit and quarterly 
reviews of HBOC during 1997 and 1998.  During this period, senior officers of HBOC were 
engaged in a fraud in which they purposefully caused HBOC to recognize revenue on 
transactions that failed to comply with GAAP.  Through his audit and review work, Putnam 
received information indicating that some of HBOC’s accounting for transactions did not 
conform to GAAP. Nevertheless, without expanding the scope of Andersen’s reviews and audit, 
Putnam approved Andersen’s issuance of six quarterly review reports and a 1997 audit report 
concerning HBOC financial statements filed with the Commission.  On three separate occasions, 
Putnam met with HBOC's audit committee, but did not report any concerns that the company 
was failing to conform with GAAP.  

       4.     In January 1999, HBOC was acquired by McKesson Corporation (“McKesson”), 
which changed its name to McKesson HBOC, Inc. (“McKesson HBOC”).  HBOC became a 
wholly owned subsidiary of McKesson HBOC.  On April 28, 1999, McKesson HBOC 
announced that it “had determined that software sales transactions aggregating $26.2 million in 
the company’s fourth quarter ended March 31, 1999, and $16.0 million in the prior quarters of 
the fiscal year, were improperly recorded because they were subject to contingencies, and have 
been reversed.  The audit process is ongoing and there is a possibility that additional contingent 
sales may be identified.”  Following this announcement, McKesson HBOC’s share prices 
tumbled from approximately $65 to $34 a share, a decline of more than $9 billion in market 
value.  McKesson HBOC later restated its financial results for the prior three fiscal years, 
primarily due to the fraud that occurred at HBOC.  In total, the restatement reduced previously 
reported revenues by approximately $ 327.4 million. 

       5.     Putnam served as the audit engagement partner for Andersen’s audit of Ebix for 
the nine-month period ended December 31, 1998 (“1998 transition period”). 4
                                                                            During his audit 
work for the company, Putnam received indications of possible fraud at Ebix including earnings 
management, high involvement in accounting decisions by non-financial management, 
commitments made to analysts, the expectation of possible equity funding, the desire to maintain 
a high stock price, Ebix’s very aggressive accounting policies, and possible opinion shopping by 
Ebix among accounting firms, among others. In particular, Putnam became aware that Ebix’s 
management had taken an extremely aggressive approach to recognizing revenue from the 
company’s software sales. 

       6.     In 1998, one of Ebix’s products was a software program it marketed to the 
insurance industry called “cd.global.”  While auditing Ebix’s revenues and accounts receivable 
4
 In March 1998, Ebix changed its fiscal year-end from March 31 to December 31, thus requiring 
the company to file a Form 10-K with the Commission for the nine-month period which 
commenced April 1, 1998 and ended December 31, 1998. 

                                             - 3 -

---------------------Page 4---------------------

for the 1998 transition period, Putnam learned that a number of Ebix’s cd.global customers 
stated that they had not accepted the cd.global software for various reasons.  Under GAAP, a 
software vendor cannot recognize revenue on the sale of software the customer has not yet 
accepted. Despite his awareness of the customers' complaints and their stated non-acceptance of 
the cd.global product, Putnam failed to properly investigate the matter, and permitted Ebix to 
recognize revenue on its purported sales of cd.global.  Putnam then authorized the issuance of 
Andersen’s unqualified audit opinion on Ebix’s 1998 transition period financial statements, 
which included significant revenue relating to the purported cd.global sales. 

       7.     Ebix’s original financial statements for the 1998 transition period, filed with the 
Commission in April 1999, reported revenue of $19.2 million, and net income of $523,000.  In 
June 2000, Ebix filed revised and restated financial statements with the Commission for the 1998 
transition period.  The revised and restated financial statements reported revenue of $13.4 
million and a net loss of $5.5 million for the 1998 transition period.  Thus, Ebix’s original 
financial statements, as audited by Putnam, overstated Ebix’s revenues by $5.8 million, or 
approximately 43 percent, and overstated Ebix’s income by approximately $6 million.  Over 
$3.4 million of the overstated revenue on Ebix’s original financial statements was revenue that 
Ebix had improperly recognized for sales of cd.global and related services. 

       Putnam’s Conduct in the HBOC Matter 

       8.     HBOC principally sold large integrated healthcare management software systems. 
In its press releases, HBOC separately reported revenue from software sales.  HBOC established 
an exceptional earnings track record.  In each quarter between January 1996 and September 
1998, HBOC beat quarterly earnings per share estimates by at least $ .02 per share.   

       9.     Andersen considered HBOC a high risk client during 1997 and a maximum risk 
client during 1998.  Despite this assessment, Putnam failed to design review and audit 
procedures commensurate with the level of risk Andersen identified at HBOC.  Putnam also 
failed to exercise due care in the conduct of Andersen’s reviews and audits by, among other 
things, failing adequately to expand the scope of the reviews and audits as required under 
Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (“GAAS”) in light of significant errors and other 
indications that HBOC was not accounting for specific transactions in conformance with GAAP. 
 In particular, Putnam failed to expand the scope of Andersen’s work despite red flags that 
HBOC’s management had failed to fulfill promises to comply with GAAP and continued to 
recognize revenue on contracts with contingent terms for software sales to customers in side 
letters. 

       10.    A side letter or side agreement is any document or oral agreement containing 
contract terms that are not a part of the formal contract.  Andersen audit bulletin number 96-18 
(issued in 1996) warned its audit staff that side letters often are the cause of material revenue 
misstatements, especially in the software industry.  HBOC’s use of side letters increased the 
audit risk because it heightened the potential for key contract terms affecting revenue recognition 
(revenue contingencies) to be overlooked or deliberately hidden as part of a revenue recognition 
fraud. Putnam had reason to be aware as early as 1996 that HBOC used side letters in its contract 
negotiations with customers. 

                                              - 4 -

---------------------Page 5---------------------

       The 1997 Quarterly Reviews 

       11.    Beginning with his review of HBOC’s interim financial statements for the first 
quarter of 1997, Putnam learned that HBOC’s management took the position that revenue could 
be recognized on certain contracts where a software sale was contingent on later approval by a 
customer’s board of directors (a “board contingency”).  Under GAAP, it is improper to recognize 
revenue on such a transaction until the contingency is satisfied.  For example, some of HBOC’s 
software sales contracts were contingent upon approval by the customer's board of directors (a 
“board contingency”) and therefore those contracts were not enforceable by HBOC until the 
customer’s board of directors actually approved the contracts. Under GAAP, a company may not 
report revenue on any sales contract if the contract is unenforceable or performance of the 
contract by the customer is in doubt.  Putnam discussed this issue with Jay Gilbertson 
(“Gilbertson”), HBOC’s chief financial officer, who claimed that such board contingencies were 
merely perfunctory and that there was no real risk that the customer would cancel a contract 
based on such a contingency.  Gilbertson promised to provide some sort of documentation to 
support his claim, but he never did so. 

       12.    During the 1997 quarterly reviews, Putnam had reason to be skeptical concerning 
HBOC’s accounting practices with respect to software revenue recognition.  Andersen, during its 
audit of HBOC’s 1996 year-end financial statements, identified at least one instance where a 
board contingency was not contained in the contract, but instead in a side letter, and revenue had 
been recognized. 

       13.    Putnam also had reason to be concerned regarding the integrity of HBOC’s 
management.  In three of four quarters in 1997, Gilbertson represented in writing to Andersen 
that HBOC had complied with the latest draft of the new software revenue recognition guidelines 
that specifically prohibited revenue recognition if any board contingency existed.  The new 
authoritative literature, Statement of Position No. 97-2 (“SOP 97-2”), entitled Software Revenue 
Recognition, effective January 1, 1998, specifically precluded revenue recognition if board 
contingencies existed.  Andersen’s review and audit work in the same period had revealed that 
HBOC had continued to enter into some contracts with board contingencies.  

       14.    Throughout 1997, HBOC’s management made public announcements of the 
company’s revenues, net income and earnings per share prior to the completion of Andersen’s 
audits or reviews. Putnam was aware of this practice. 

       Andersen’s Review of HBOC’s Financial Statements for the First Quarter 1997 

       15.    HBOC reported software revenue of $68 million in the first quarter of 1997 (“Q1 
1997”).  During the first quarter review, Putnam’s audit team tested whether the company had 
properly recorded revenue on $29 million in software sales and found that the company had 
improperly recorded revenue totaling $14 million.  This was a 48 percent error rate.  According 
to the Andersen working papers, HBOC overstated pretax income by 9.4 percent.  Most of the 
improperly recorded revenue related to contracts that were subject to board contingencies.  
Andersen’s auditors also found an instance where HBOC had recognized revenue on a software 
contract signed after quarter end.  GAAP requires that revenues must be reported in the fiscal 

                                             - 5 -

---------------------Page 6---------------------

period in which they occur.  HBOC’s management refused to eliminate this improperly recorded 
revenue from its financial statements for the first quarter of 1997. 

       16.    Putnam approved Andersen’s quarterly review report for the first quarter 1997, 
which was incorporated into HBOC’s Form 10-Q filed with the Commission. Among other 
things, Andersen's report stated: “We conducted our review in accordance with standards 
established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. . . .  Based on our review, 
we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the financial statements 
referred to above for them to be in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.”  

       17.    HBOC’s improper recording of revenue and other accounting errors in the first 
quarter of 1997 was material information for the company’s stockholders.  In its quarterly 
earnings releases, HBOC reported software revenue as a separate line item.  HBOC’s software 
revenue for the quarter was overstated by 21 percent.  In addition, HBOC’s reported net income 
was overstated by 10.3 percent. 

       18.    Andersen’s review for the first quarter of 1997 revealed accounting errors that 
were dramatically higher than previous periods. Despite the significant increase in the errors 
found, Putnam did not direct his team to make additional inquiries or employ other procedures 
for that quarter. 

       Andersen’s Review of HBOC’s Financial Statements for the Second Quarter 1997 

       19.    In the 1997 second quarter review, Putnam learned that HBOC continued to 
recognize revenue on certain contracts containing board contingencies. He also learned that 
HBOC recorded revenue improperly on software sales subject to other types of contingencies 
including subsequent management or legal approval or a right to cancel the contract at a future 
date.  Moreover, Putnam learned that HBOC senior executives had written some of these 
contingencies in side letters. Putnam learned that at least one HBOC contract included in first 
quarter revenue had been canceled when a customer’s board of directors failed to approve the 
deal. Additionally, Putnam’s audit team found another instance where HBOC had recognized 
revenue on a contract that had not been executed until after quarter end. Andersen recommended 
to HBOC’s management that the revenue from these contingent contracts be reversed. 

       20.    Gilbertson again refused to make any adjustments in HBOC’s financial 
statements to correct these errors.  The errors were material to HBOC’s financial statements in 
both type and amount.  Based on these errors, the pretax income and net income reported by 
HBOC in its earnings release and Form 10-Q were overstated by approximately 12 percent and 
HBOC’s reported software revenue was overstated by almost 7 percent. 

       21.    Despite the accounting errors found in the second quarter review, and despite 
HBOC’s continued practice of putting revenue contingencies into side letters, Putnam did not 
direct his team to make additional inquiries or employ other procedures for the quarter. 

       22.    Putnam approved the issuance of Andersen’s unqualified quarterly review report 
for the second quarter 1997, which was incorporated into HBOC’s Form 10-Q filed with the 
Commission.  Among other things, Andersen’s report stated: “We conducted our review in 

                                             - 6 -

---------------------Page 7---------------------

accordance with standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public 
Accountants....  Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should 
be made to the financial statements referred to above for them to be in conformity with generally 
accepted accounting principles.” 

       Andersen’s Review of HBOC’s Financial Statements for the Third Quarter 1997 

       23.    In the third quarter of 1997, Putnam and his audit team continued to find instances 
where HBOC recognized software revenue despite the existence of contingencies in the sales 
contracts. The auditors found some contingencies in side letters written by HBOC senior sales 
executives.  Despite this, Putnam did not direct his team to make additional inquiries or employ 
other procedures to test software revenue Andersen proposed to HBOC’s management that the 
company make adjustments for certain errors found equal to 7 percent of pretax income. 
Gilbertson refused to make these adjustments.  Putnam did not pursue the issue further. 

       24.    The accounting errors in HBOC’s financial statements for the third quarter of 
1997 were material both in type and amount.  The 1999 investigation in connection with 
McKessonHBOC’s restatement  revealed that HBOC, in its earnings release and Form 10-Q 
report for the third quarter, overstated software revenue, pretax and net income by 15.5 percent, 
15 percent and 15 percent, respectively, based on these errors. 

       25.    Putnam authorized the issuance of Andersen’s unqualified quarterly review report 
for the third quarter 1997, which was incorporated into HBOC’s Form 10-Q filed with the 
Commission. Among other things, Andersen’s report stated: “We conducted our review in 
accordance with standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public 
Accountants.. . .  Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that 
should be made to the financial statements referred to above for them to be in conformity with 
generally accepted accounting principles.” 

       Andersen’s Audit of HBOC’s Financial Statements for the 1997 Year End 

       26.    Andersen conducted an audit of HBOC’s financial statements for the year ended 
December 31, 1997. Putnam was the engagement partner for this audit. The audit staff included a 
manager and two associates. In addition, Andersen assigned a concurring partner to review the 
results of the audit work. Field work for the audit was completed on February 6, 1998. On 
March 9, 1998, Andersen issued an audit report concerning HBOC’s 1997 financial statements 
and expressed an unqualified opinion concerning those financial statements. Andersen’s audit 
report was dated February 6, 1998. 

       Failure to Adequately Test and Confirm Software Revenue 

       27.    Andersen’s audit included testing of HBOC’s software revenue and trade 
accounts receivable.  The audit confirmation process was the primary audit test performed by 
Putnam and his staff to ensure the completeness of HBOC’s customer contract files. Andersen 
sent eight audit requests for confirmation of accounts receivable (eleven fewer than sent during 
the 1996 audit) to selected HBOC customers.  The confirmation requests asked the customers to 
confirm any amounts owed to HBOC and that no revenue contingencies existed on software 

                                             - 7 -

---------------------Page 8---------------------

purchased from HBOC.  Only three customers responded, two noting contingencies that were 
contained in side letters (a 66 percent exception rate). 

       28.    Although two customers had responded to Andersen that side letter contingencies 
existed in their contracts, Putnam did not direct his staff to send out any additional confirmations 
confirming software sales for this period to see if there were additional contingencies or other 
problems that would further affect HBOC’s financial statements.  Putnam did not direct his staff 
to perform any other additional testing to ensure that HBOC’s contract files were complete. 
Putnam and his staff did not significantly test the flow of documentation from the sales 
department to the contract files maintained in the accounting department.  Putnam and his staff 
did not check with the sales department to find out if it possessed any other sales documents not 
forwarded to the accounting department.  Putnam and his staff did not gain a full understanding 
of HBOC’s policies or practices for using side letters.  Putnam and his staff did not ask whether 
HBOC maintained a listing of side letters.  Finally, Putnam and his staff did not obtain 
representations from HBOC’s sales personnel concerning the existence of other side letters. 

       Failure to Examine Other Accounting Improprieties 

       29.    During the 1997 audit, Putnam and his staff also identified other accounting 
improprieties at HBOC. These included the premature recognition of revenue on software 
maintenance arrangements and the accrual of excessive acquisition reserves (so called “cookie 
jar” reserves). 

       30.    HBOC sold many of its software systems together with a service agreement for 
periodic maintenance.  Under these software maintenance arrangements, HBOC provided 
maintenance over a period of years.  HBOC customers typically paid a lump sum during the first 
year of the contract, which covered both the software license and the service and maintenance 
provided in future years.  GAAP requires that revenue that is to be earned over a period of years 
be deferred until earned or when the service and maintenance is provided.  Putnam told 
Gilbertson that HBOC was recognizing too much maintenance revenue and that the company 
needed to increase the percentage of maintenance revenue it deferred.  Gilbertson refused to 
make Andersen’s proposed adjustment to correct the premature recognition of revenue.  Instead, 
Gilbertson promised Putnam that he would increase HBOC’s deferral percentage in following 
quarters until it was adequate. 

       31.    During 1997, HBOC acquired other companies and, in its accounting for these 
acquisitions, HBOC allocated funds for expected future costs and expenses of the acquisitions. 
These “acquisition reserves” totaled $ 95.3 million.  Andersen audited the acquisition reserves 
and concluded that HBOC’s reserves were $ 16 million greater than was needed. Andersen 
proposed to HBOC’s management, in accordance with GAAP, that $ 16 million should be 
reversed.  HBOC’s management refused to make the adjustment, but promised Andersen that it 
would only use the reserve for acquisition related costs.  Putnam did not pursue the matter 
further.  The amount of the excessive acquisition reserves was material.  Those reserves 
overstated HBOC’s reported nonrecurring expenses by 20 percent. 

                                              - 8 -

---------------------Page 9---------------------

       32.    On or about March 9, 1998, Putnam authorized Andersen to issue its audit report 
for HBOC’s year ended December 31, 1997.  In its report, Andersen stated:  “We conducted our 
audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. . . .  In our opinion, the financial 
statements referred to above present, fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of 
HBO & Company and subsidiaries... in conformity with generally accepted accounting 
principles.” 

       Putnam Did Not Fully Inform HBOC’s Audit Committee Concerning the Results of the 
       Reviews and Audit 

       33.    Putnam met with HBOC’s audit committee in November 1997 and again in 
February 1998.  At neither meeting did Putnam inform the audit committee that HBOC was 
misapplying GAAP, except that Putnam informed the audit committee that HBOC was 
recognizing too much maintenance revenue and that the company needed to increase the 
percentage of maintenance revenue it deferred.  Nor did Putnam report his disagreements with 
Gilbertson regarding these practices.  Instead, at each meeting Putnam reported that Andersen 
found no significant problems or exceptions and that Andersen enjoyed the full cooperation of 
HBOC management. Putnam also informed the audit committee that HBOC was in compliance 
with the new authoritative literature governing software revenue recognition.  Putnam failed to 
disclose to the audit committee that HBOC’s practice of booking software sales when board and 
other revenue contingencies existed was directly contrary to GAAP.  Further, Putnam failed to 
inform the audit committee that Andersen had identified not only board contingencies but other 
types of revenue contingencies at HBOC and that these contingencies were sometimes found in 
side letters. 

       34.    Sometime after the February 1998 audit committee meeting, Andersen drafted a 
letter to HBOC’s management, which Putnam reviewed.  Among other topics, the letter 
recommended that HBOC forbid its senior sales executives and sales representatives from 
entering into side letter contingencies.  Putnam’s staff delivered a copy of the draft letter to 
HBOC’s management but did not provide a copy of the draft letter to the audit committee or 
inform the audit committee of its contents.  Putnam did not sign or deliver a final version of the 
letter to HBOC’s management. 

       Andersen’s Review of HBOC’s Financial Statements for the First Quarter 1998 

       35.    Andersen conducted a review of HBOC’s interim financial statement for the 
quarter ended March 31, 1998. During this first quarter review, Putnam discovered that HBOC 
was misusing the acquisition reserve it accrued during 1997 to offset current period operating 
expenses.  This use of the acquisition reserve did not conform with GAAP and had the effect of 
overstating HBOC’s reported net income.  Such use of the acquisition reserve was contrary to 
the representations of HBOC management to Putnam about how HBOC would use these 
reserves. 

       36.    During the first quarter review, Putnam and his team identified another instance 
where HBOC had recognized revenue despite the existence of a revenue contingency contained 
in a side letter. The side letter was signed by HBOC’s senior vice president of sales.  Putnam 

                                             - 9 -

---------------------Page 10---------------------

proposed that the revenue from this transaction be reversed, but Gilbertson refused.  Once again, 
Putnam did not expand the scope of Andersen’s testing to see if there were additional side letters 
containing revenue contingencies.  Putnam and his team did not document in its working papers 
any explanation why a software transaction containing a contingency was recorded as revenue, 
nor did they obtain any explanation for why the senior vice president of sales entered into a side 
letter that contained a revenue contingency despite Andersen’s written recommendation to stop 
doing so. 

       37.    Putnam approved the issuance of Andersen’s unqualified quarterly review report 
for the first quarter of 1998, which was incorporated into HBOC’s Form 10-Q filed with the 
Commission. Among other things, the report stated: “We [Andersen] conducted our review in 
accordance with standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. 
...Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to 
the financial statements referred to above for them to be in conformity with generally accepted 
accounting principles.” 

       38.    By approximately April 1998, the engagement manager on the HBOC account 
(Putnam's direct subordinate on the HBOC account) became concerned that HBOC was 
managing earnings through its non-GAAP accounting. On several occasions, the engagement 
manager stated these concerns to Putnam.  Putnam shared these concerns. 

       39.    In May 1998, Putnam and his engagement team called a special meeting with 
Gilbertson and others at HBOC to again reiterate that HBOC needed to correct its non-GAAP 
accounting practices.  In response to Putnam’s criticisms in the 1997 year-end audit, Gilbertson 
repeated promises to correct HBOC’s non-GAAP practices, including deferring the appropriate 
revenue relating to software maintenance arrangements and using acquisition reserves only to 
offset acquisition related expenses. 

       Andersen’s Review of HBOC’s Financial Statements for the Second Quarter 1998 

       40.    Andersen conducted a review of HBOC’s interim financial statements for the 
quarter ended June 30, 1998.  During this second quarter review, Andersen discovered a number 
of accounting errors.  Andersen found that HBOC had again applied its acquisition reserves to 
current expenses, that HBOC continued to recognize too much revenue from software 
maintenance arrangements, and that HBOC had understated its allowance for doubtful accounts. 
 Putnam told Gilbertson that if HBOC did not reverse the application of the acquisition reserves, 
Andersen would not issue its review report.  After a heated discussion, Gilbertson agreed to 
reverse the recording of current expenses against the acquisition reserve.  Putnam however, did 
not confront HBOC management on the other accounting errors Andersen found and HBOC 
made no correcting entries for those items.  These remaining accounting errors were material in 
amount and overstated HBOC’s reported pretax income for the quarter by 5.45 percent, not 
including the understatement for doubtful accounts.  Nonetheless, Putnam did not direct his team 
to make additional inquiries or employ other procedures for the quarter. 

       41.    Putnam approved the issuance of Andersen’s unqualified quarterly review report 
for the second quarter of 1998, which was incorporated into HBOC’s Form 10-Q filed with the 

                                            - 10 -

---------------------Page 11---------------------

Commission. Among other things, the report stated: “We [Andersen] conducted our review in 
accordance with standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public 
Accountants....  Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should 
be made to the financial statements referred to above for them to be in conformity with generally 
accepted accounting principles.” 

       Andersen’s Review of HBOC’s Financial Statements for the Third Quarter 1998 

       42.    Andersen conducted a review of HBOC’s interim financial statements for the 
quarter ended September 30, 1998.  During that quarter review, Andersen discovered that HBOC 
prematurely recognized revenue on software maintenance arrangements because Gilbertson had 
not increased HBOC's deferral percentage as he had promised.  Andersen proposed a $9.5 
million adjustment for this error.  Andersen also proposed an adjustment to increase the reserve 
for bad debt by $4.5 million.  Ultimately, HBOC did not make the proposed adjustments and 
Putnam did not pursue the issue.  Based upon this error, HBOC overstated net income by $14 
million for the nine months ended September 30, 1998.  This overstatement was material in 
amount.  This was 11 percent of HBOC's reported pretax income and net income for the quarter 
or 3.8 percent of HBOC’s reported pretax income and net income for the nine-month period. 

       43.    During the third quarter of 1998, based in part upon Gilbertson’s representation 
that there were two transactions, Putnam approved HBOC’s accounting for a transaction in 
which HBOC sold $30 million of its software and purchased $74 million of the same customer’s 
product.  Although documented as separate transactions, both the transactions were entered into 
on September 28, 1998 (two days before the end of the third quarter).  HBOC recorded $30 
million as a sale of software to the customer in the third quarter of 1998 and included that 
amount in its reported revenue for the quarter.  The transaction accounted for 20 percent of 
software revenue recorded during the quarter.  By recording $30 million in revenue from the 
transaction, HBOC reported earnings of 19 cents per share, thus exceeding the consensus 
expectation of Wall Street analysts that HBOC would earn 18 cents per share in the quarter.  
Without the revenue from this transaction, HBOC could only have reported earnings of 16 cents 
per share. 

       44.    While the transaction was still being negotiated, Putnam had several 
conversations with HBOC management about the structure of the deal.  HBOC had never before 
entered into a reseller arrangement of this magnitude, nor had it ever entered into an arrangement 
where it was simultaneously selling and purchasing product from the same company.  In a 
discussion with Gilbertson, Putnam advised that this accounting for the transfer of HBOC 
software to the customer would be correct if (a) the two transactions were not linked; and 
(b) there was a defined end-user for the HBOC software.  Gilbertson assured Putnam that the 
sale and purchase from the customer were independent of each other, and that the customer was 
donating the $30 million of software to charity hospitals, who were the end users.  Both of these 
statements by Gilbertson were false.  In fact, the two transactions were completely dependent on 
each other, and the customer had no intention of donating $30 million of software.  Instead, the 
customer expected HBOC to assist it in reselling the product to end-users. 

                                             - 11 -

---------------------Page 12---------------------

       45.    Putnam had reason to know that Gilbertson’s statements about the key elements 
of the transaction were false.  HBOC had never before entered into a reseller arrangement of this 
magnitude and the transaction accounted for more than 20 percent of the net income for the 
period.  Although documented in two separate contracts, both the contract for HBOC’s sale to 
the customer and the contract for the purchase from the same customer were signed on the same 
day (two days before quarter end).  Finally, Gilbertson’s explanation that the customer intended 
to donate $ 30 million of highly complex software was so extraordinary and unusual that Putnam 
reasonably should have confirmed the information with the customer. 

       46.    Putnam approved the issuance of Andersen’s unqualified quarterly review report 
for the third quarter of 1998, which was incorporated into HBOC’s Form 10-Q filed with the 
Commission. Among other things, the report stated: “We [Andersen] conducted our review in 
accordance with standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public 
Accountants....  Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should 
be made to the financial statements referred to above for them to be in conformity with generally 
accepted accounting principles.” 

       47.    In July 1999, McKesson HBOC restated HBOC’s revenues for the third quarter of 
1998 and eliminated the $30 million transaction. 

       Putnam Failed to Fully Advise HBOC’s Audit Committee of Andersen’s Findings 

       48.    Putnam attended a November 1998 meeting of HBOC’s audit committee, where 
HBOC’s Chairman informed the audit committee that Gilbertson was resigning from his position 
as CFO of HBOC.  Gilbertson’s resignation was unexpected.  The HBOC Chairman asked 
Putnam if he had a “Cendant on his hands.”  Cendant was a widely-reported financial fraud case. 
 In response to the Chairman’s question, Putnam responded that he didn’t know of anything.  
Putnam did not report to the audit committee his continued disagreements with Gilbertson 
regarding HBOC’s accounting, Gilbertson’s failure to make good on promises to Andersen with 
respect to acquisition reserves and maintenance revenue, repeated discoveries by Andersen of 
contingencies in its sales contracts that affected revenue recognition, any problems with HBOC’s 
internal controls and management, nor any of the myriad other accounting errors and non-GAAP 
accounting that Andersen had found over numerous periods. 

       Andersen Consented To Use Of Its Reports in McKesson’s Registration Statements 

       49.    In October 1998, McKesson and HBOC announced that McKesson would acquire 
HBOC.  In preparation for the acquisition, McKesson made several filings with the Commission. 
On October 30 and November 13, 1998, McKesson filed registration statements on Forms S-3 
and S-4, respectively. On November 23 and 27, 1998, McKesson filed amendments to its Form 
S-3 and Form S-4 registration statements, respectively.  Included in each of these McKesson 
filings was Andersen’s consent to incorporation by reference of its report dated February 6, 1998 
with respect to HBOC’s consolidated financial statements for the period ended December 31, 
1997.  Putnam approved Andersen’s consent to the use of its report in these McKesson filings.  
Despite a number of accounting errors that affected Andersen’s February 6, 1998 report, Putnam 

                                            - 12 -

---------------------Page 13---------------------

did not investigate the impact of such errors on HBOC’s financial statements as of December 31, 
1997 and did not insist on appropriate revision of Andersen’s report. 

       Andersen’s Work on HBOC’s Quarter Ended December 31, 1998 

       50.    In December 1998, less than a month after his report to HBOC’s audit committee, 
Putnam met with other Andersen personnel to discuss the HBOC engagement.  In connection 
with the audit planning of HBOC during the summer of 1998, Andersen assessed HBOC as a 
maximum risk client.  In accordance with Andersen’s internal risk policy an annual consultation 
was required for all audit clients given a maximum risk rating.  The consultation included an 
exercise involving a “what if” fraud risk assessment.  In an outline attached to a memo to the 
file, dated December 7, 1998, the engagement manager assigned to HBOC documented the 
“what ifs” that were to be discussed at the meeting.  Among other things the memo stated: 

       Fraud would be reflected in the financial statements in the area . . . of improper 
       revenue recognition, . . . intentional understatement of the accounts receivable 
       reserve . . . and (other) indications of aggressive GAAP (which may be a prelude 
       to fraud) including acquisition reserves and deferred maintenance. Analyst 
       commitments (no missed earnings for 28 consecutive quarters) . . . and instances 
       of side agreements. 

       51.    The topics addressed in the memo were precisely the types of items that would 
later cause the massive restatement.  Yet, Putnam never adequately disclosed these concerns to 
HBOC’s audit committee. 

       52.    In preparation for a 1998 year-end audit of HBOC, Andersen tested a portion of 
HBOC’s accounts receivable in each quarter by requesting that certain customers confirm the 
amounts they owed to HBOC and that there were no contingencies in their sales contracts.  As 
discussed above, customer responses to these requests revealed that HBOC entered into sales 
contracts and recorded revenue on those sales although the contracts contained contingencies.  In 
approximately August 1998, Andersen received a response from an HBOC customer sent out in 
the second quarter of 1998 in which the customer noted the existence of a side letter containing 
revenue contingencies.  Although the response from the customer was included in Andersen’s 
working papers for the quarter, Andersen did not pursue the issue with either HBOC or the 
customer. 

       53.    Later, Putnam and his team identified numerous other side letters containing 
revenue contingencies and instances where revenue had been improperly recognized in the first 
three quarters of 1998.  Despite these red flags, Putnam approved Andersen’s consent to 
McKesson’s use of Andersen’s February 6, 1998 report on HBOC’s 1997 financial statements in 
its registration statements filed in October and November 1998. 

       54.    In January 1999 McKesson Corporation completed its acquisition of HBOC.  
McKesson told Andersen that it would not be necessary for Andersen to complete the audit for 
the period ended December 31, 1998, but asked Andersen to perform certain of the procedures 

                                             - 13 -

---------------------Page 14---------------------

that would have been done had the audit been completed.  Putnam was the engagement partner 
for this work. 

       55.    During the work related to year-end 1998, Putnam learned that HBOC had 
entered into more side letters with contingencies and improperly recorded revenue from those 
transactions.  Nonetheless, Putnam did not require his team to investigate the extent of 
contingencies affecting contracts recorded in prior periods and to expand the scope of its 
procedures to attempt to identify other contract contingencies and improper revenue recognition. 

       56.    In or about April 1999, McKesson engaged Andersen to conduct an audit of 
HBOC’s financial statements for periods ended March 31, 1997 and March 31, 1998.  Putnam 
was the engagement partner for this work.  Putnam approved a report by Andersen, dated July 
12, 1999, concerning HBOC’s March 31, 1997 and March 31, 1998 financial statements. 
Andersen expressed an opinion that HBOC’s financial statements presented fairly, in all material 
respects, the financial position of HBOC as of those dates and the results of operations and their 
cash flows for the years then ended in conformity with GAAP. 

       57.    On July 14, 1999, McKesson HBOC filed an annual report on Form 10-K 
including consolidated financial statements for the companies and its subsidiaries as of 
March 31, 1997, March 31, 1998 and March 31, 1999.  The company also reported restatements 
of certain income statement items for quarters in 1997 and 1998.  For the year ended March 31, 
1998, McKesson reported that $39.7 million in revenues was improperly reported due to 
improper application of SOP 91-1 and $19 million in contingent revenues were improperly 
recognized in prior filings by HBOC.  For the three-month period ended June 30, 1998, 
McKesson reported that $25.8 million in revenues was improperly reported due to improper 
application of SOP 97-2 and $32.6 million in contingent revenues were improperly recognized in 
prior filings by HBOC.  For the three month period ended September 30, 1998, McKesson 
reported that $20.8 million in revenues was improperly reported due to improper application of 
SOP 97-2 and $22.9 million in contingent revenues were improperly recognized in prior filings 
by HBOC.  For the three-month period ended December 31, 1998, McKesson reported that $33.7 
million in revenues was improperly reported due to improper application of SOP 97-2 and $48.8 
million in contingent revenues were improperly recognized in prior filings by HBOC.  
McKesson adjusted for these errors in its consolidated financial statements. 

       58.    Putnam approved Andersen’s consent to the inclusion of its July 12, 1999, audit 
report in McKesson’s Form 10-K filing. 

       Summary 

       59.    In performing the HBOC quarterly reviews and annual audit, Putnam failed to 
comply with GAAS, through his acts and omissions including but not limited to: 

       a. 	   Failing to comply with generally accepted auditing standards in planning the 
              work, adequately supervising the work performed, and failing to obtain a 
              sufficient understanding of internal controls to plan the audit and to determine the 
              nature and extent of tests to be performed; 

                                            - 14 -

---------------------Page 15---------------------

       b. 	   Failing to exercise due professional care and maintain an attitude of professional 
              skepticism to provide reasonable assurance of detecting both material errors and 
              fraud in the financial statements; 

       c. 	   Failing to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to afford a reasonable 
              basis for Andersen’s opinion regarding the financial statements of HBOC; 

       d. 	   Failing to follow appropriate procedures in reviews of interim financial 
              information; 

       e. 	   Failing to follow appropriate procedures for consents to the use of Andersen’s 
              reports; 

       f. 	   Failing to follow appropriate procedures for communications with HBOC’s audit 
              committee; 

       g. 	   Failing appropriately to consider and assess the risk of material misstatement due 
              to fraud and fraud risk factors; 

       h. 	   Failing to have a sufficient basis for Andersen’s statements in its quarterly review 
              reports that the firm was not aware of any material modifications that should be 
              made to HBOC’s financial statements for them to conform to GAAP; 

       i. 	   Failing to have a sufficient basis for Andersen’s opinion that the firm’s audit of 
              HBOC’s financial statements had been performed in accordance with GAAS. 

       Putnam's Improper Professional Conduct in the Ebix Audit 

       Ebix’s Business 

       60.    Ebix developed and marketed, through the use of license agreements, multi-
function software for the insurance industry.  In the latter half of 1998, Ebix began marketing a 
software product called “cd.global” to its U.S. and Canadian customers.  Cd.global was a highly 
sophisticated, complex program, which required a significant amount of customization and 
installation before the customer could use the program.  Among other things, cd.global was 
supposed to allow electronic exchange of policy information between insurance agencies and 
insurance carriers, and to convert such information into the standard forms used in the insurance 
industry.  These particular functions of cd.global were known as “AL3” in the domestic version 
and “CSIO” in the Canadian version. 

       Increased Audit Risk Related to Ebix 

       61.    Auditors are required to exercise professional skepticism when performing audit 
procedures. 

       62.    Putnam became the engagement partner for Andersen’s audit of Ebix’s 1998 
transition period financial statements in or about March 1999, replacing the first engagement 

                                             - 15 -

---------------------Page 16---------------------

partner who had been assigned to the 1998 transition period audit.  At the time Putnam became 
Ebix’s audit engagement partner, the previous engagement partner had been involved in a series 
of meetings and discussions with Ebix’s management concerning various revenue recognition 
issues encountered during the audit process.  The previous engagement partner had 
recommended several downward adjustments to the revenue that Ebix had recognized on its 
1998 transition period financial statements.  Over $3.4 million of the overstated revenue on 
Ebix’s original 1998 transition period financial statements was sales and service revenue that 
Ebix had improperly recognized concerning its cd.global product. 

       63.    Soon after Putnam became the Ebix engagement partner, the Andersen audit staff 
under his supervision prepared a memorandum dated March 15, 1999.  The March 15, 1999 
memorandum recounted that during the audit process, Andersen had a number of concerns 
related to Ebix’s positions on accounting matters, and, in particular, on Ebix’s handling of 
revenue recognition on software sales.  The memorandum noted that Ebix’s management had 
taken “an extremely aggressive approach” in interpreting relevant GAAP standards relating to “a 
significant amount of software revenue recognized.” 

       64.    In addition to noting Ebix’s extremely aggressive approach to software revenue 
recognition, the March 15, 1999 memorandum also observed that Andersen became aware of a 
number of factors that increased the risk of fraud in Ebix’s financial statements: 

       The fraud indicators relate to such areas as possible earnings management, high 
       involvement in accounting decisions by non-financial management (i.e. CEO), 
       commitments made to analysts, expectation of possible equity funding, desire to 
       maintain a high stock price, very aggressive accounting policies, possible 
       “opinion shopping,” disputes over adjustments, etc. 

       65.    The March 15, 1999 memorandum further stated that due to the existence and 
nature of the fraud indicators described above, Andersen had “modified our audit approach to 
substantially increase the amount of audit work we perform in the revenue recognition area.”  
These modifications would include, among other things, “substantial contract confirmation 
work” and “review of all contracts entered into during the year.” 

       The Failed Cd. Global Contract Confirmation Process 

       66.    During its 1998 transition period, Ebix entered into approximately thirty license 
agreements with its U.S. and Canadian customers for cd.global software.  In conducting the 
audit, Putnam and the audit team sent written confirmations to sixteen Ebix customers who had 
purchased cd.global in the 1998 transition period to verify information concerning those license 
agreements.  Andersen received ten responses to its confirmation requests; seven of these were 
“negative,” i.e., indicated that the customer took exception to the information being confirmed. 

       67.    In general, each of Ebix’s cd.global license agreements contained similar 
provisions concerning the customer’s obligation to pay for the software, which conditioned 
payment on the successful installation and implementation of cd.global.  The license agreements 
generally conditioned the customer’s obligation to pay for the software upon, among other 

                                             - 16 -

---------------------Page 17---------------------

things, a successful test conversion of the customer’s data from its existing system to the 
cd.global data format, and upon full functionality of cd.global, including the AL3/CSIO 
component of the software.  Despite these common provisions in the cd.global license 
agreements, Andersen’s confirmations completely failed to address these pre-conditions to 
payment.  For example, none of the confirmations sent to cd.global customers requested 
information concerning, among other things, the date upon which a successful test conversion of 
the customer’s data to the cd.global data format had occurred, the number of individual “seat 
licenses” accepted by a customer, or the date upon which the software’s AL3/CSIO component 
had become functional. 

       68.    Under Paragraph 20 of SOP 97-2, “[a]fter delivery, if uncertainty exists about 
customer acceptance of the software, license revenue should not be recognized until acceptance 
occurs.” 

       69.    Each of the seven negative responses to Andersen’s confirmation requests 
indicated that Ebix’s customers had not yet accepted the cd.global software due to functionality 
problems with the software.  In addition, one confirmation response indicated that a customer 
had not accepted the number of individual “seat licenses” represented by the invoices for which 
Andersen sought confirmation. 

       70.    Despite the negative cd.global customer responses to Andersen’s confirmations, 
Putnam failed personally to contact, or to have his staff contact, any of the customers who 
responded to the confirmations.  Nor did Putnam ask for, or review, Ebix’s customer 
correspondence files to further investigate the nature of the problems raised by the confirmation 
process.  Putnam did not attempt to seek further information concerning the acceptance of the 
cd.global software from any independent source.  Instead, Putnam relied on Ebix’s 
management’s representation that the cd.global software was fully functional, and allowed Ebix 
to recognize significant revenue from purported sales of cd.global in the 1998 transition period, 
including revenue from the customers who had submitted negative responses to Andersen’s 
confirmations.  In so doing, Putnam failed to exercise an appropriate degree of professional 
skepticism and critical assessment of audit evidence in performing the Ebix audit. 

       71.    On April 15, 1999, Ebix filed with the Commission a Form 10-K for the nine-
month period ended December 31, 1998. Ebix included financial statements in this Form 10-K 
that reported revenue of $19.2 million and net income of $523,000.  The financial statements 
were accompanied by an Arthur Andersen audit report containing an unqualified opinion (with a 
going concern emphasis paragraph) that Ebix’s financial statements presented fairly, in 
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, the results of Ebix’s operations for 
that period. 

       72.    On June 1, 2000, Ebix filed an amended Form 10-K containing revised and 
restated financial statements for the 1998 transition period. In the restatement, Ebix reported 
revenue of $13.4 million, and a net loss for the period of $5.5 million.  Consequently, the 
original financial statements overstated Ebix’s revenue by $5.8 million, or approximately 43 
percent, and overstated Ebix’s net income by approximately $6 million. 

                                             - 17 -

---------------------Page 18---------------------

       73.     The customers providing negative responses disputed a total of $638,955 that 
Ebix claimed they owed December 31, 1998.  In its restatement, Ebix reversed over $1.2 million 
in revenues improperly recognized from the customers that provided negative responses to 
confirmation requests. 

       Summary 

       74.     In performing the Ebix audit, Putnam failed to comply with GAAS, through his 
acts and omissions including but not limited to: 

       a. 	    Failing to com ply with GAAS in pla nning the work, adequately supervising the 
               work perform ed, and failing to obtain    a sufficient understanding of internal 
               controls to plan the audit and to determ  ine the nature and extent of  tests to be 
               performed; 

       b. 	    Failing to exercise due prof essional care and m aintain an attitude of  professional 
               skepticism to provide reasonable assurance of detecting both m aterial errors and 
               fraud in the financial statements; 

       c. 	    Failing to obtain sufficient com  petent  evidential m atter to af ford a reasonable 
               basis for Andersen’s opinion regarding the financial statements of Ebix; 

       d. 	    Failing to create, to im  plement, to evaluate, and to interpret a conf   irmation 
               process that would have led to the detection of improperly recognized revenue; 

       e. 	    Failing appropriately to consider and assess the risk of m aterial misstatement due 
               to fraud and fraud risk factors; 

       f. 	    Issuing an audit report containi  ng an unqualified opinion without perform    ing 
               audit steps sufficient to provide a basis for that opinion; and 

       g. 	    Failing to have a sufficient basis for  Andersen’s opinion that Ebix’s financial 
               statements conformed to GAAP, specifically SOP 97-2, relating to the recognition 
               of revenue. 

   Violations of the Federal Securities Laws and Rule 102(e) 

       75.     In connection with the audits and reviews of the financial statements of HBOC, as 
described above, Putnam was a cause of one or more of HBOC’s violations of Section 17(a)(2) 
and (3) of the Securities Act. 

       76.     Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides that the 
Commission may deny the privilege of appearing or practicing before it to any person who is 
found to have engaged in improper professional conduct.  With respect to persons licensed to 
practice as accountants, “improper professional conduct” may include negligent conduct 
evidenced by “repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of 

                                              - 18 -

---------------------Page 19---------------------

applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice before the 
Commission.”  Rule 102(e)(1)(ii), Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2). 

       77.    In connection with the audits and reviews of the financial statements of HBOC 
and Ebix, as described above in Paragraphs 59 (a) through (i) and 74 (a) through (g), Putnam 
engaged in improper professional conduct by repeatedly engaging in unreasonable conduct, 
resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards that indicate a lack of competence to 
practice before the Commission. 

       Findings 

       78.    Based upon the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent Putnam was a 
cause of one or more of HBOC’s violations of Section 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act. 

       79.    Further, based upon the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent Putnam 
engaged in improper professional conduct pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice. 

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Putnam’s Offer.   

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     Respondent shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
any future violations of Section 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act; 

       B.     Respondent is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant. 

       C.     After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention:  Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

       1.	    a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, of 
              any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  
              Such an application must satisfy the Commission that respondent’s work in his 
              practice before the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit 
              committee of the public company for which he works or in some other acceptable 
              manner, as long as he practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 

       2.	    an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission 
              that: 

           a.	 Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
              registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 

                                             - 19 -

---------------------Page 20---------------------

              accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues 
              to be effective ; 

           b.	 Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is associated, 
              has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any 
              criticisms or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control 
              system that would indicate that the respondent will not receive appropriate 
              supervision or, if the Board has not conducted an inspection, has received an 
              unqualified report relating to his, or the firm’s, most recent peer review conducted 
              in accordance with the guidelines adopted by the former SEC Practice Section of 
              the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Division for CPA Firms or 
              an organization providing equivalent oversight and quality control functions; 

           c.	 Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has complied 
              with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
              reinstatement by the Commission); and 

           d.	 Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Respondent appears or 
              practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
              requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
              requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and 
              quality control standards. 

       D.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 

       By the Commission. 

       N                                              ancy M. Morris
       S                                             ecretary 

                                              - 20 -

