---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

 Bef                                     ore the

   SECURITIES                    AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 8930 / June 17, 2008 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 57978 / June 17, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2840 / June 17, 2008 

Administrative Proceeding 
File No. 3-13072 

In the Matter of                             ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND- 
                                             DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT 
Preston D. Hopper, CPA                       TO SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES 
                                             ACT OF 1933 AND SECTION 21C OF 
Respondent.                                  THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
                                             OF 1934, MAKING FINDINGS AND 
                                             IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST 
                                             ORDER 

                                          I. 

      The S ecurities and Exchang e Co mmission  (“Commission”) dee ms  it appropriate that 
cease-and-desist proceedings be , and hereby   are, instituted  pursuant to Section  8A of the 
Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securit ies Act”) and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (the “Exchange Act”) against Preston D. Hopper (“Hopper” or “Respondent”). 

                                         II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose 
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the  Co mmission is a  pa rty, a nd withou t a dmitting or de nying the  findings c ontained 
herein, except that Res pondent adm its the Commission’s juri sdiction over hi m a nd over the 
subject matter of th ese proceedings, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order  Instituting 
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings  Pursuant to Section  8A of  the Securities Act of   1933 and 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Section 21C of the Se curities Exchange Ac t of 1934, Making Findings and I mposing a Cease-
and-Desist Order. 

                                               III.

                                          FINDINGS 


       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds   1
                                                                                   that: 

                                     A.  RESPONDENT 

       Preston D. Hopper, 57, resides in Michigan and, duri ng the relevant  period, was Chief 
Accounting Officer of CMS Energy Corp. (“CMS”).  Hopper was formerly licensed as a CPA in 
Michigan, but his licens e lapsed.   CMS is a Mi chigan corporation with its prin cipal place of 
business in Jackson, Michigan.  CMS’s shares are registered with the Commission under Section 
12(b) of the Exchange Act a  nd tr ade on the New York Stoc  k Exchange under the sy  mbol 
“CMS.”  During the relevant period, CMS’s energy-trading division, CMS Marketing Services & 
Trading (“MS&T”), was active in retail marketing of gas and wholesale trading of electricity and 
natural gas.   

                                          B.  FACTS 

       1.      Overview of Round Trip Trades. 

     The round trip trades 2
                            were trans actions conducted by  CMS and counterp arties including 
Reliant  Energy S ervices,  Inc. ( “Reliant”)  whereby the       parties essen tially agr eed  to 
simultaneously both purchase and sell electric power or natural gas for the same volume and at 
the same price, with no delivery contemplated and with neither party making any profit.   The 
transactions were intended solely  to i mprove each company’s standing  in industry publications 
that r anked en ergy m arketing co mpanies b ased on volu mes repor ted to  th e F ederal En ergy 
Regulatory Co mmission (“F ERC”).   However, th e tr ades also  had the effect of causing th  e 
companies t o over state th e r evenues and exp enses reported in each   co mpany’s re spective 
Commission filings as the tr  ansactions w ere reported on a gross basis in each co      mpany’s 
financial statements. 

       2.      Round Trip Trades at CMS. 

       CMS materially overstated its  revenues and expenses in 20 00 and 2001 as a r esult of 
round trip energy  tran sactions conducted by   its Houston-based ener gy-trading subsidiary , 
MS&T.  These overstatements appeared in certain 10-Qs a nd 10-Ks filed with the Co mmission. 

   1
     The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer and are not binding on any other person or entity 
in this or any other proceeding. 
   2
     Round t rip trades at CMS and Reliant were referred to variously as  “Brag-a-Watts,” “volumetric” deals, 
“back-to-back” trades, “net-zero” trades, “no margin” trades and “ze ro-margin” trades.  The press coined the term 
“round trip” to describe the trades in articles reporting on the practice first published in May 2002 and it will be used 
in this Order. 

                                               -2-

---------------------Page 3---------------------

During the relevant period, CMS al so filed with the Co mmission several registration statements 
in connection with offeri ngs of its securities. 3
                                                    The regis tration statem ents in corporated by 
reference the materially misleading Forms 10-Q and the 2000 Form 10-K, including the financial 
statements incorporated  in the filings.    The round trip tr ades had no i mpact on CMS’s net 
earnings. 

       CMS’s sole purpose for engaging in the r        ound trip trades was   to elevate MS&T’s 
standing in certain industry publications that ranked energy marketing companies based on total 
FERC-reported volumes.   Specifically, CMS sought to be am ong the top 20 tier (“Top  20”) in 
such industr y publications in or der to attr act requests for pr oposals fro m  municipalities that 
considered such indus try rankings as a useful m eans of identi fying which co mpanies should 
receive requests for proposals. 

       Although the purpose of the round  trip trades was to boost  CMS’s rankings, the tr ades 
also had the effect of artificially inflating CMS’s revenues and expens es.   CMS reported al l 
trades on a gross basis, which   meant that its re ported revenue figures we re not netted agains t 
offsetting expenses.  As a result, the round trip transactions conveyed an inaccurate picture of the 
company’s revenues and expenses. 

       For example, on July 12, 2000, MS&T and Relian t entered into a round  trip trade with a 
September 2000 ter m involving 10,000,000 MWH of power and   $380 million in revenue and 
expense.  Before its execution,  this transaction was reviewed  by MS&T’s Director of Credit 
Management, CMS’s Chief Risk Officer, and CMS’s Chief Financial Officer who approved th e 
practice.  On or before Octo ber 20, 2000, CMS’s outside auditor  learned about the trans action 
from its audit team in Houston responsible for MS&T.  During this same period, Respondent and 
CMS’s Audit Committee Chairman discussed th e accounting for the $380- million dollar round 
trip trade in a conference call on October 25, 2000 with CMS’s  outside auditor who advised that 
accounting for the trade  on a gross basis was a ppropriate.   The $380-million dollar round trip 
trade also came to the attention of the CMS Director of Financial Reporting in connection with 
the preparation of the MS&T Results of Operations for the CMS 2000 third quarter 10-Q.      4 

       Separately, MS&T staff infor med CMS’s accounting department that the $380- million 
dollar round trip trade was the source of a substantial increase in current assets and liabilities for 
CMS for the  month ended Septe mber 30, 2000.   CMS’s accounting  staff, in turn, prepared an 
internal variance report for tha t same month that was distr ibuted to CM S’s executive officers 
(including CMS’s Chie f Executive Officer, Chief Financial Offic er, Chief Operating Office r, 

   3
     CMS filed t he following  registration statements during t he relevant period:   a Form S-3 on  December 15, 
2000, December 22, 2000, and December 12, 2001, and a Form S-8 on April 11, 2001. 
   4
     The initial draft of the MS&T Results of Operations for the CMS 2000 third quarter 10-Q prepared by MS&T 
staff did not include references to gross revenues or volumes.  CMS’s financial reporting staff subsequently revised 
the proposed draft to include references to total volumes and volume percentage increases.  In response, MS&T staff 
specifically disclosed to the CMS Director of Financial Reporting that the trades generating the increased volumes 
did not contemplate physical delivery, made no margin, and were being done only for the purpose of “puffing up the 
volumes” and  specifically suggested that he delete the volume references.   Nevertheless, CMS included volume 
references in t he MS&T Results of O perations for the  CMS 2000 third quarter 10-Q and every 10-Q therea fter 
during the relevant time period. 

                                                -3-

---------------------Page 4---------------------

General Counsel, and Vice President in Charge of Investor Relations) and the entire CMS Board 
of Directors that attributed CMS’s increase in  receivables and p ayables to MS &T’s “electric 
wholesale activities with Reliant Energy.”  Thereafter, through July 2001, every time MS&T did 
round trip trades, MS&T staff w  ould identify the round  trip trades by dol lar amounts as th e 
source of the corresponding increases in current assets and liabilities and CMS’s accounting staff 
would then attribute those increases to “buy/sale” “deals” with Reliant in the monthly variance 
reports given to the CMS executive officers and Board. 

       During its audit of the 2001 first quarter financial statements, MS&T disclosed to CMS’s 
outside auditor three “no- margin” transactions with Reliant  with revenues  and corresponding 
expenses of $1.2 billion.   CMS’s outside auditor, in turn, brought  the round trip trades to the 
attention of CMS’s Au dit Co mmittee Chair man who discussed the trades first w ith MS&T’s 
Chief Executive  Offic er a nd CMS’s Chie f Exec utive Office r  5
                                                                   and then with CMS’s outside 
auditor and Respondent.  At the request of the CMS Audit Committee Chairman, MS&T’s Chief 
Executive Officer explained to  the CMS Board of Directors what MS&T’s round trip trad es 
were, their purpose, and how they worked and answered the questions asked by the Board. 

       The outside auditor’s review of the round trip trades continued into the second quarter of 
2001.6
        At that time, a member of the MS&T audit team concluded that revenues and expenses 
from the round trip trades should be recorded on a net basis – c ontrary to MS&T’s (and CMS’s) 
practice and the audit team’s prior guidance.  Neither Respondent, others at CMS, nor the CMS 
audit team, however, were apprised of this conclusion. 

       A few days prior to October 2001 (prior to the filing of CMS’s third quarter Form 10-Q), 
CMS’s outside auditor reco mmended to CMS that  it record the r evenues and exp enses from 
round trip trades only if: 
       ♦	 The parties to the trade bear both credit and performance risk; 
       ♦	 Title to the related commodity transfers to the buyer; and 
       ♦	 Settlement is for the gross proceeds (checks   must be exchanged  and cashed f or the gross 
           amount of the transaction). 

       The round trip trades – which involved no risk, no net transfer of title and no exchange of 
cash – could not satisfy these cr  iteria.   On or about October 2,   2001, Respondent infor med 
MS&T’s Chief Executive Officer and MS&T’s Controller that CMS had decided to  change the 
way it accounted for th  e round-trip tr ades in the financial   statements it filed  with the SEC. 
Nevertheless, CMS repo rted in the third quarter of 2001        the revenues and expenses fro  m 
MS&T’s third quarter round trip trades, resulting in material financial misstatements. 

   5
     CMS’s  Audit Committee Chairm an aske d CMS’s C hief Exec utive Officer a nd  MS&T’s Chief Ex ecutive 
Officer a bout  the “zero-m argin” tra des.   CMS’s Chief  Executive Officer re sponded that the tra des were:  (i) 
commonly done in the industry, (ii) done to establish MS&T on league tables as a means of showing MS&T as a 
viable co mmodities trad er,  and (iii) th at su ch trad ing  did no t affect earn ings, cash  flow or th  e b alance 
sheet/shareholders’ equity.   MS&T’s Chief Executive Officer told the CMS Audit Committee Chairman that the 
trades were ongoing, arranged transactions with RES that represented “more than half” of MS&T’s volume.   
   6
     This review included round trip trades that MS&T had done for that quarter that were disclosed by MS&T to 
the outside auditors. 

                                                -4-

---------------------Page 5---------------------

       By recording revenues and   expenses from  the round trip   trades, CMS overstated its 
revenues and expenses  by a total of  $5.2 billion over a one- year period:   $1.0 billion (10%) in 
2000, and $4.2 billion (36%) for the first thr  ee quarters of 2001.   On March 24, 2002, CMS’s 
auditors advised CMS that the financial results of the round trip trades conducted in 2001 would 
have to be reclassified to record them all on a net bas is, which CMS did in its annual report for 
2001.7
        However, CMS did not  reclassify the financial results  of the round trip trades conducted 
in 2000 until May 29, 2002. 

       On March 17, 2004, the Commission issued a settled cease-and-desist order against CMS 
Energy Corp. and MS&T’s Contr  oller, finding  that each had violated   Section 17(a) of the 
Securities Act and Sections 10(b), 13(a) and 13(b)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 12b-
20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder.    In the Matter of CMS Energy Corp. and Terry Woolley    , 
Administrative Proceeding File No. 3-11436. 

                                    Respondent’s Conduct 

       In his role a  s Chie f Ac counting Offic er of CMS, Hopper          maintained oversight 
responsibility for recording MS&T’s co      mmodities trans actions.    The inclusion of those 
transactions caused C MS’s financial state ments to pr esent a  materially  misleading picture of 
CMS’s actual business acti vity.   Additionally, after CMS’s au ditors determined that the round 
trip trades should be recorded on a net basis in October 2001, Hopper did not ensure that CMS’s 
quarterly report, which was f iled with the Comm ission, om itted  these transactions.   Finally, 
Hopper had responsibility for properly disclosing the nature and extent of CMS’s restatement of 
earnings to exclude the round trip trades in the explanation included in its March 29, 2002 For m 
10-K, which failed  adequately to disclose the f acts and circ umstances of MS &T’s round trip 
trades. 

       Respondent’s conduct with respect to the round trip trades was negligent and, as such, he 
was a cause of CMS’ filing of re ports, including offering m aterials, that included revenues and 
expenses related to round trip  trades.   Respondent was also a ca use of CMS’s m isstatement of 
the company’s transactions in its books, records, and accounts. 

       As a result of the conduct  described above, Respondent  Hopper was a ca use of CMS’s 
violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Se curities Act, Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of 
the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder.   8 

                                               IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Co mmission deems it appr opriate to  impose the sanctions 
specified in the Respondent’s Offer. 

   7
     MS&T conducted additional round trip trades in November and December of 2001.  However, the revenues 
and expenses from those trades were not included in Commission filings. 
   8 
     KPMG, LLP. v. SEC, 289 F.3d 109, 120 (D.C. Cir. 2002) (negligence alone is sufficient to establish causing 
liability for non-scienter violations under Section 21C of the Exchange Act). 

                                               -5-

---------------------Page 6---------------------

       Accordingly, IT IS HE REBY ORDERED, pursu ant to Section  8A of the Secur ities Act 
and Section 21C of the Exchange Act, that 

       Respondent Hopper cease and desist from  committing or  causing any violation and any 
future violation of Sections  17(a)(2) and (3) of the  Securities Act, and cease and desis t from 
causing any violation or future violation of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A)  of the Exchange Act 
and Rules  12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder. 

       By the Commission. 

                                                          Florence E. Harmon 
                                                          Acting Secretary 

                                             -6-

