---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                         the 

   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No.  8580 / June 7, 2005 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  51797 / June 7, 2005 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2254 / June 7, 2005 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-11944 
                                                               
                                   :  
In the Matter of                    : 
                                   :      ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
MOUNT SINAI MEDICAL                :      PROCEEDINGS, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
CENTER OF FLORIDA, INC.,   :              IMPOSING CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
M. BROOKS TURKEL and               :      PURSUANT TO SECTION 8A OF THE 
HARVEY W. SMITH                    :      SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 AND SECTION 
                                   :      21C OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT               
                                   :      OF 1934 
Respondents.                       :        
                                   :  
                                                              : 

                                             I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the 
Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Mount Sinai Medical Center of Florida, Inc. (“Mount Sinai”), M. 
Brooks Turkel (“Turkel”) and Harvey W. Smith (“Smith”) (collectively, “Respondents”). 
  
                                            II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting 
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

  
 
Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                               III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission  finds 1
                                                                                   that: 
 
                                          Respondents 
 
        1.            Respondent M   ount Sinai is a not-for-profit corporation located in Miami 
Beach, Florida, which operates a multi-campus hospital, including a  701 bed teaching and research 
hospital and various satellite outpatient facilities and physician offices. 
 
               2.     Respondent Turkel, age 40, was Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) of Mount 
Sinai from January 1999 through mid-July 2001, and served as Mount Sinai’s chief planning officer 
from mid-July 2001 until he was terminated in October 2001.   
 
               3.     Respondent Smith, age 58, served as chief operating officer (“COO”) of 
Mount Sinai from May 2000 until he was administratively suspended in December 2001 by Mount 
Sinai and officially terminated in January 2002.  Smith, as COO, was responsible for oversight of the 
CFO in Mt. Sinai’s administrative line of authority.  
 
                               Mount Sinai’s 2001 Bond Offering  
 
               4.     On May 24, 2001, Mount Sinai, through the City of Miami Beach Health 
Facilities Authority (the “Authority”), issued three series of municipal bonds (Series 2001A, Series 
2001B and Series 2001C) totaling approximately $184 million (the “2001 bonds”).  The purpose of 
the issuance was primarily to re-finance Mount Sinai’s acquisition of the Miami Heart Institute and 
Medical Center, purchased by Mount Sinai in June 2000.  The 2001 bonds were limited obligations 
of the Authority payable solely from payments made by Mount Sinai pursuant to a loan agreement 
between Mount Sinai and the Authority.  The bonds were rated “BBB,” “Baa3,” and “BBB+” by 
Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”), Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (“Moody’s”) and Fitch, Inc. (“Fitch”), 
respectively. 
 
               5.     The Official Statements to the bond offerings contained Mount Sinai’s 
audited financial statements for the years 1999 and 2000.  The Official Statements also included 
Mount Sinai’s forecasted financial statements, as of March 30, 2001, for the years 2001 through 
2003.  The forecasted financial statements projected operating losses totaling $7.5 million for fiscal 
year 2001, losses totaling $2.6 million for fiscal year 2002, and operating income of $2.5 million for 
fiscal year 2003. 

                                                 
1 
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers and are not binding on any other person or 
entity in this or any other proceeding. 
                                                 2
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

  
 
 
               6.      The Official Statements contained an anti-fraud certificate, signed by Mount 
Sinai’s former Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), wherein the CEO certified on behalf of Mount 
Sinai that: (i) the statements and information contained in the Official Statement were true, correct 
and complete in all material respects; (ii) the Official Statement did not contain any untrue or 
incorrect statements or omissions of material fact; and (iii) Mount Sinai’s financial condition had not 
materially or adversely changed since December 31, 2000.     
 
               7.      In addition, the Official Statements contained another certificate, executed by 
Turkel, in which he certified to Mount Sinai’s bond counsel that the Official Statements did not 
contain any untrue statements or omissions of a material fact.   
 
               8.      The terms of the bond covenants required Mount Sinai to file quarterly 
reports with various repositories, which would then be available for review by current and 
prospective investors.  Accordingly, on August 24, 2001, Mount Sinai filed its second quarter report 
for the quarter ended June 30, 2001.  The second quarter report was signed by Turkel. 
   
                 Misrepresentations and Omissions in the Official Statement  
        
               9.      Mount Sinai, through Turkel, Smith and other former senior management, 
failed to disclose the hospital’s deteriorating financial condition at the time of the offering.  
Specifically, Mount Sinai failed to disclose in the Official Statements that the hospital was 
experiencing a significant deterioration in its cash position and was in the midst of a severe liquidity 
problem.  Indeed, Mount Sinai’s financial condition began to materially decline after it underwent a 
computer conversion in December 2000 to update its patient accounting system within its business 
office.   The computer conversion gave rise to major problems that substantially impacted Mount  
Sinai’s billing and collection process.  For example, Mount Sinai experienced substantial delays in 
billings and a significant rise in failed billings to third party payors.  In addition, the hospital’s  
patient accounts receivable grew substantially -- increasing from approximately $70 million at the 
end of December 2000 to over $90 million by June 30, 2001.  As a direct result of its billing and 
collections problems,  Mount Sinai’s cash position began to materially worsen after December 2000 
and continued to worsen through at least the time of the issuance of the 2001 bonds in May.   
 
               10.     In addition, Mount Sinai, at the direction of Turkel and other former 
senior management, falsely represented in the Official Statements that eight of its high volume 
managed care contracts had been renegotiated, and that the renegotiated contracts were expected 
to contribute approximately $10 million of additional revenue for the hospital on an annual basis 
beginning in 2001.  In fact, at the time of the issuance of the 2001 bonds, only three of the eight 
major contracts had actually been renegotiated as claimed.   
 
               11.     Moreover, the financial statements forecasting the hospital’s anticipated 
revenue through the end of 2003, which were included in the Official Statements, were 
fraudulent.  The forecasted financial statements projected operating losses for 2001 and 2002 
                                                 3
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

  
 
totaling $7.5 million and $2.6 million, respectively, and a relatively small surplus in                                                  2003.  The 
forecasted financials included net patient service revenue and accounts receivable projections that 
were calculated using Mount Sinai’s 2001 contractual deduction rate.                                2
                                                                           That contractual 
deduction rate, however, was fraudulent because it was partly based on the false notion that 
Mount Sinai had renegotiated all of its eight largest managed care contracts.   
 
               12.     Given the facts known by Mount Sinai’s former senior management, the 
representations made by its CEO and Turkel in the anti-fraud certificates accompanying the Official 
Statements were false and misleading.  The representations in the anti-fraud certificates that the 
Official Statements did not contain any untrue statements or omissions of a material fact, and that 
Mount Sinai’s financial condition had not materially or adversely changed since fiscal year 2000, 
were clearly contradicted by Mount Sinai’s deteriorating financial situation, the false statements 
made regarding the renegotiation of the managed care contracts and the false projections included in 
the forecasted financial statements.  
 
                               False and Misleading Statements to 

                       Institutional Investors and Bond Rating Agencies
 
                                                    
        13.            Mount Sinai, through Turkel, Smith and other former senior management, 
made materially false and misleading statements during a presentation given to prospective 
institutional bond investors on April 30, 2001.  During that presentation, Mount Sinai represented 
that it had been successful in renegotiating all eight of its largest managed care contracts and that the 
renegotiated rates would result in a $10 million improvement to revenue beginning in 2001.  In fact, 
as mentioned above, only three of the contracts had been renegotiated.  Mount Sinai, also provided 
institutional investors with baseless projections concerning the hospital’s net patient service revenue 
and accounts receivable. 
 
               14.     In March and April 2001, Mount Sinai, through Turkel, Smith and other 
former senior management, gave similar presentations to certain bond rating agencies during which 
Mount Sinai again falsely represented that it had renegotiated all eight of its largest managed care 
contracts resulting in an annual improvement in revenues of $10 million.  
                                                    
                                                    
                                                    
                                                    
                 Misrepresentations and Omissions in Mount Sinai’s Second 

                      Quarter Report for the Period Ended June 30, 2001
  
                                                    

                                                 
2 
       Contractual deductions are an estimate of the deductions that the hospital expects will not be paid based on  
contracts or other arrangements with its third party payors.  Mount Sinai recorded net patient service revenue based 
on a percentage number that reflected the average of all of the hospital’s contractual deductions with its third party 
payors.  This percentage is called the “contractual deduction rate.”   
                                                  4
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

  
 
        15.           Mount Sinai’s second quarter report for the period ended June 30, 2001, 
reflected a $5 million write-off in accounts receivable Mount Sinai recorded in June 2001.  Although 
the second quarter report discussed the $5 million write-off, Mount Sinai failed to adequately 
disclose in the report the circumstances requiring the write-off.   By the time of the filing of the 
second quarter report, Turkel, Smith and other senior management at Mount Sinai knew that the 
managed care contracts had not been renegotiated and that Mount Sinai may have been using a 
contractual deduction rate for recording net patient service revenue that was too low.  Mount Sinai 
nevertheless failed to disclose this information to investors in its second quarter report.  
 
               16.    Mount Sinai also failed to disclose in the second quarter report that by the 
time of the filing of that report, Turkel, Smith and other senior management knew additional write-
offs of accounts receivable would be necessary, and that those write-offs could be as high as $20 
million.  Mount Sinai ultimately recorded a $21 million reduction in net patient service revenue and 
accounts receivable in September 2001, which was mostly the result of the improper contractual 
deduction rate used by Mount Sinai for the first nine months of 2001. 
 
               17.    Additionally, Mount Sinai failed to  disclose in the second quarterly report 
that, at the time of its filing, Mount Sinai continued to struggle with its cash flow situation.  Finally, 
the report failed to disclose the fact that an accounting firm began running Mount Sinai’s business 
office because of the problems with its billing and collection process.   
   
                  Knowledge of Mount Sinai’s Former Senior Management  
 
               18.    Turkel, Smith and other former senior management at Mount Sinai were 
aware that Mount Sinai’s cash position had materially declined prior to the bond offering, and 
that the cash situation at the hospital continued to be a major concern up until the date of the 
bond offering.  They nevertheless failed to disclose this cash crisis or update its financial 
information.  To the contrary, Mount Sinai’s CEO falsely certified that Mount Sinai’s financial 
condition had not materially or adversely changed since December 31, 2000.  As Mount Sinai’s 
CFO, Turkel further falsely certified to bond counsel that the Official Statement did not contain any                                            
untrue statements or omissions of a material fact. In light of the severe cash crisis and growing 
accounts receivable problem that they knew the hospital was experiencing before the bond offering, 
these certifications were plainly false. 
  
               19.    Additionally, Turkel, Smith and other former senior management knew, or 
were reckless in not knowing, that prior to the bond offering Mount Sinai had only renegotiated 
three of its major managed care contracts and that the hospital would not receive an additional 
$10 million in revenue for fiscal year 2001.   They also knew, or were reckless in not knowing,  
that the net patient service revenue and accounts receivable projections contained in the Official 
Statement and provided to investors and bond rating agencies during presentations were baseless 
because they were based on a false contractual deduction rate. 
 

                                                 5

---------------------Page 6---------------------

  
 
               20.     Moreover, by the time Mount Sinai’s second quarter report was filed in 
August 2001, Turkel, Smith and other former senior management also knew, or were reckless in 
not knowing, that Mount Sinai was using an improper contractual deduction rate for recording 
net patient service revenue, and that substantial write-offs – far in excess of the $5 million 
recorded in the second quarter report – would be necessary.  Yet Mount Sinai failed to disclose 
any of this information in its second quarter report.   
                                                   
                                            Violations  
         
               21.     As a result of the conduct described above, Mount Sinai violated Section 
17(a) of the Securities Act, which prohibits fraudulent conduct in the offer or sale of securities. 
        
               22.     Also as a result of the conduct described above, Mount Sinai violated 
Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct 
in connection with the purchase or sale of securities.  
  
               23.     As a result of the conduct described above, Turkel violated, and caused 
Mount Sinai’s violations of, Section 17(a) of the Secur             ities Act, which prohibits fraudulent 
conduct in the offer or sale of securities. 
 
               24.     As a result of the conduct described above, Turkel violated, and caused 
Mount Sinai’s violations of, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule  10b-5 thereunder, which 
prohibit fraudulent conduct in connection with the purchase or sale of securities. 
                
               25.     As a result of the conduct described above, Smith violated, and caused 
Mount Sinai’s violations of, Section 17(a) of the Secur             ities Act, which prohibits fraudulent 
conduct in the offer or sale of securities. 
 
               26.     As a result of the conduct described above, Smith violated, and caused 
Mount Sinai’s violations of, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule  10b-5 thereunder, which 
prohibit fraudulent conduct in connection with the purchase or sale of securities. 
                                                   

                                                 6
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

  
 
                                                       IV. 
 
         In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents Offers. 
 
         Accordingly, it is hereby  ORDERED that:  
 
         A.      Respondent Mount Sinai cease and desist from committing or causing any violations 
and any future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and Section 10(b) of the Exchange 
Act, and Rule 10b-5 thereunder. 
  
        B.       Respondent Turkel cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
any future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act, 
and Rule 10b-5 thereunder. 
 
        C.       Respondent Smith cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
any future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act, 
and Rule 10b-5 thereunder. 
  
        By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Jonathan                                                            G. Katz
       Secretary                                                          
 
 
 
 

                                                        7
 
