---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                      Before the  
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

SECURITIES ACT OF 1933       CORRECTED 
Release No.  8825 / July 17, 2007 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No.  56082 / July 17, 2007 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2644 / July 17, 2007 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No.  3-12695 

                                              :   ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
In the Matter of                              :   DESIST PROCEEDINGS, MAKING 
                                              :   FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A 
             QUOVADX, INC.,                   :   CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
                                              :   PURSUANT TO SECTION 8A OF 
Respondent.                                   :   THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 AND 
                                              :   SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                              :   EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

                                        I.      

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Quovadx, Inc. (“Quovadx”) 
pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”). 

                                        II.     

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Quovadx has submitted an Offer of 
Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose 
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these proceedings which are 
admitted, Quovadx consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, 
Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to Section 8A of the 
Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set 
forth below. 

 

 

 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                         
                                               III. 

                                             FACTS 

              On the basis of this Order and Quovadx’s Offer, the Commission finds1
                                                                                 that: 

       A.     Respondent 

       Quovadx, a Delaware corporation based in Englewood, Colorado, is a software company 
that licenses software and sells related services to the healthcare industry.  Quovadx’s stock was 
registered with the Commission under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act during the relevant 
time and traded on the NASDAQ National Market.  During 2002 and 2003, Quovadx derived 
about one-third of its reported revenue from software licensing fees, with the rest coming from 
software maintenance and service contracts.  Quovadx separately reported its software licensing 
revenue, which included sales of both software and licenses. 2
                                                               During the relevant period, 
Quovadx had a continuously effective offering of securities pursuant to Form S-8.  It also 
registered an offer of securities pursuant to Form S-4 in the fourth quarter of 2003. 

       B.     Summary 

       Between 2002 and 2003, Quovadx improperly recognized over $12 million in revenue 
from software licensing deals with four of its customers in an attempt to meet aggressive revenue 
and sales goals set by the company.  In transactions with three customers - Sourceworks, 
Microstar, and Infotech - Quovadx’s recognition of revenue was fraudulent.  In each of these 
transactions, one or more members of Quovadx’s then senior management knowingly or 
recklessly engaged in the improper revenue recognition and other conduct described herein.  3
                                                                                               In 
the fourth transaction, Quovadx improperly accelerated recognition of the revenue.  As a result, 
Quovadx materially overstated its software licensing revenues in its quarterly reports by amounts 
ranging from 10% in the third quarter of 2002 to nearly 180% by the third and fourth quarters of 
2003. 

       On March 15, 2004, when it could not collect payment from Infotech for transactions it 
had previously booked as revenue, Quovadx announced that it would restate its prior results to 
decrease revenue by approximately $11 million.  Quovadx’s stock price fell 29%, and dropped 
further after Quovadx announced on May 13, 2004, that it was reviewing two additional 
contracts.  By August 16, 2004, when Quovadx restated its results for the second time to correct 
for the transactions with Sourceworks, MicroStar, and the fourth customer, Quovadx’s stock was 
trading at $1.65 per share. 

       C.     Applicable Accounting Principles for Software Sales 

       As a public company, Quovadx was required to file quarterly and annual reports with the 
Commission that presented its financial results in conformity with Generally Accepted 

                                                 
1
              The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding 
       on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
2
              Throughout this Order, “software sales” and “software license sales” are used interchangeably. 
3
              References below to Quovadx’s “management” refer to the former management that departed 
       Quovadx in Spring 2004. 
                                               -2-
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                        
Accounting Principles (“GAAP”).  The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants’ 
Statement of Position 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition (“SOP 97-2”) and related 
interpretations are the principal GAAP provisions governing the recognition of revenue for sales 
of software and software licenses.  Under SOP 97-2, a company may not recognize revenue from 
a software license sale unless and until there is:  persuasive evidence of an arrangement; delivery 
of the software; a fixed or determinable seller’s fee; and a reasonable probability of collecting 
the accounts receivable.  Further, if payment is substantially contingent on the buyer’s success in 
distributing the product to the customer, either due to the terms of the deal or because the buyer 
is so undercapitalized that it cannot pay until it sells the product, the seller may not recognize the 
software license revenue at the time of sale. 

       In its financial reports filed with the Commission, Quovadx claimed that it had 
recognized revenue in accordance with GAAP.  Between 2002 and 2003, in a series of 
transactions with four different customers, however, Quovadx recognized revenue that was not in 
conformity with SOP 97-2 and that materially overstated the company’s financial results. 

       D.     The Sourceworks Transaction 

       In early 2003, Quovadx solicited the Veterans’ Administration (“VA”) to buy licenses for 
Quovadx’s Insurenet software, a product for processing patient medical insurance information.  
The VA refused to buy the licenses, but expressed an interest in using the software and 
periodically paying Quovadx a fee based on the number of insurance transactions that it 
processed.  Quovadx was not interested in this proposal because it did not want to license 
software on a per-use basis.  Quovadx therefore developed a plan whereby Quovadx would sell 
the licenses to a third party, which would then enter into a contract with the VA to offer the 
software on a per-use basis.   

       A Quovadx employee contacted a Colorado-based venture capital firm and proposed that 
the firm buy the Insurenet licenses from Quovadx.  In return, Quovadx would negotiate a 
contract for the venture capital firm to license the software on a per-use basis to the VA.  As the 
end of the second quarter of 2003 approached, the venture capital firm agreed in principle to 
Quovadx’s proposal.  However, because it was not a software reseller, the firm repeatedly said 
that it would not pay for the Insurenet licenses unless and until Quovadx obtained the promised 
user contract with the VA.  The Quovadx employee expressed confidence that it would obtain 
the contract with the VA early in the third quarter.  With that understanding, the venture capital 
firm created a shell company, Sourceworks USA LLC, in late June 2003 to buy the Insurenet 
licenses from Quovadx and enter into the user contract with the VA.  On June 30, 2003, 
Quovadx and Sourceworks executed a contract requiring Sourceworks to pay Quovadx $600,000 
for the Insurenet licenses.  The contract, which gave Sourceworks six months to pay Quovadx, 
did not indicate that Sourceworks’ ability to pay Quovadx was contingent upon Quovadx 
successfully negotiating a VA deal for Sourceworks. 

       Quovadx knew or was reckless in not knowing that Sourceworks could not pay for the 
licenses unless the venture capital firm provided the funds or the VA contract was secured.4
                                                                                              
Nevertheless, Quovadx recognized the entire $600,000 in the second quarter, based upon the 
                                                 
4
              Sourceworks USA LLC was formed as a subsidiary of Sourceworks Consulting, a Canadian firm.  
       Sourceworks Consulting supplied incomplete and unaudited financial statements to Quovadx that 
       did not support a conclusion that either the parent or the subsidiary Sourceworks could pay for the 
       Insurenet licenses. 
                                               -3-
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                                                                         
June 30, 2003 contract.  It issued a press release on July 23, 2003, touting the company’s second 
quarter financial results, which included the Sourceworks revenue.  For the next eight months, 
Quovadx attempted to secure a contract between Sourceworks and the VA.  However, these 
negotiations ultimately failed.  As a result, other than one $30,000 payment in August 2003, 
Sourceworks did not pay Quovadx for the Insurenet licenses.  5
                                                                Because Sourceworks did not pay 
the remaining $570,000, Quovadx’s new senior management and auditor reviewed the 
Sourceworks transaction in the Spring of 2004 and reversed the revenue as part of the company’s 
second restatement. 

       As a result of its fraudulent recognition of the Sourceworks revenue, Quovadx overstated 
its software licensing revenues by $570,000, or approximately 9%, in the second quarter of 
2003.6

       E.     The MicroStar Transactions 

       In the third quarter of 2003, Quovadx fraudulently recognized $380,000 in software 
licensing revenue from three purported sales of licenses to MicroStar, Inc. (“MicroStar”), an 
Ohio company that sells software licenses and maintenance services to the healthcare industry.  
The sales were, in fact, part of a parking arrangement designed to accelerate revenue recognition 
from other transactions that Quovadx was in the process of negotiating, but had been unable to 
finalize before the end of the quarter.  Quovadx carried out this arrangement in an attempt to 
meet its third quarter sales targets.  Quovadx knew or recklessly disregarded that MicroStar was 
merely holding the licenses in its inventory so that Quovadx could recognize revenue on their 
“sale.”  MicroStar had no ability or intent to pay for the licenses unless Quovadx found 
customers to which MicroStar could resell the licenses.  Therefore, Quovadx should not have 
recorded the transactions as revenue. 

       In late September 2003, shortly before the close of the third quarter, MicroStar and 
Quovadx signed three separate software license purchase contracts with a total value of about 
$380,000.  Quovadx and MicroStar simultaneously reached a side-agreement that MicroStar did 
not have to pay Quovadx for the licenses until Quovadx finalized sales of those licenses to three 
anticipated customers with whom Quovadx had already been negotiating.  Under the side-
agreement, Quovadx gave MicroStar a discount on the license price in exchange for holding the 
licenses in MicroStar’s inventory.  Certain senior management at Quovadx became aware of this 
arrangement with MicroStar before the end of the third quarter.  Nevertheless, Quovadx treated 
the MicroStar contracts as bona fide sales agreements and recorded $380,000 of revenue in the 
third quarter.  Quovadx issued a preliminary earnings release and a quarterly report for the third 
quarter of 2003 that included the revenue from the arrangement with MicroStar. 

       In fact, MicroStar was unwilling or unable to pay for the licenses unless and until it was 
able to resell them to the customers with whom Quovadx had been ne    gotiating.  Shortly after 
Quovadx filed its quarterly report, the company learned that Micr oStar had not paid for any of 
the software licenses because the anticipated customers had declined to buy the licenses from 
                                                 
5
              Sourceworks has since demanded that Quovadx return the $30,000; Quovadx has not done so.  
       Sourceworks, in turn, has rejected Quovadx’s demand for payment of the $570,000 balance due 
       on the purchase of the licenses. 
6
              Quovadx overstated its software licensing revenue in its July 23, 2003, Form 8-K, which 
       incorporated its preliminary earnings results, its quarterly report for the second quarter of 2003, 
       and its annual report for 2003. 
                                               -4-
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                                                                         
MicroStar.  Quovadx did not reverse the MicroStar revenue, but instead Quovadx’s sales staff 
attempted to find alternative customers to buy the software licenses from MicroStar.  Quovadx’s 
sales staff was unable to find other buyers. 

       In December 2003, one of the three anticipated customers purchased different software 
licenses for approximately $257,000 from a Quovadx subsidiary in the United Kingdom.   In 
February 2004, when the customer made payment, the U.K. subsidiary, at Quovadx’s direction, 
reversed the transaction from its books and sent the approximately $257,000 to Quovadx’s U.S. 
offices.  Quovadx then wired this money to MicroStar with the instruction that MicroStar would 
wire it back to Quovadx, less $10,000 as payment to MicroStar.  MicroStar wired the money less 
its payment.  By channeling the payment through MicroStar, Quovadx created the false 
appearance that MicroStar had paid a significant portion of what it owed.  Quovadx’s employees 
also continued unsuccessfully to search for additional opportunities to channel software license 
sales through MicroStar to eliminate the remaining balance.  In August 2004, Quovadx reversed 
all three software license sales to MicroStar as part of its second restatement.7

       F.     The Infotech Transactions 

       In the third and fourth quarters of 2003, Quovadx fraudulently recognized a total of $11.1 
million in software licensing revenue from a series of transactions with Infotech Network Group 
(“Infotech”), a company based in India. 8
                                           Because each of these transactions had material 
contingencies and the collection of payment was not probable, Quovadx was precluded from 
recognizing this revenue.  Moreover, even after Infotech did not pay for its third quarter 2003 
purchases, Quovadx shipped additional software to Infotech and recognized revenue on those 
sales in the fourth quarter of 2003. 

               1.     The Third Quarter Transactions 

       In early September 2003, Quovadx and Infotech executed two related agreements.  Under 
the first (“the distributor agreement”), Infotech agreed to buy $5 million of software licenses 
from Quovadx and to be the exclusive distributor of Quovadx products in India.  Under the 
second agreement (“the outsourcing agreement”), Quovadx agreed to pay Infotech to 
perform certain services and conduct various research and development projects, pursuant to 
Statements of Work that would be subsequently negotiated.  The agreements required both 
parties to fund letters-of-credit to guarantee the payment of their respective obligations.  The 
distributor agreement required that Infotech fund a $5.46 million letter-of-credit before Quovadx 
shipped any software to it. 

       As required by the outsourcing agreement, Quovadx immediately funded a letter-of-
credit for $2.46 million to pay Infotech as it rendered outsourcing services.  By mid-September, 
however, Infotech had not funded its letter-of-credit.  Quovadx nevertheless shipped the $5 
million of software licenses to Infotech.  In an attempt to meet its third quarter revenue goals, 
Quovadx also asked Infotech to buy more software.  Infotech agreed, on the condition that 
                                                 
7
              Quovadx overstated its software licensing revenue by $380,000 in its October 22, 2003, Form 8-
       K incorporating its preliminary earnings results, its quarterly report for the third quarter of 2003, 
       and its annual report for 2003. 
8
              Infotech Network Group represented itself to Quovadx as a consortium of major Indian 
       companies that sought outsourced research and development projects from U.S. software 
       companies. 
                                               -5-
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                                                                                         
Quovadx guarantee pre-payment of outsourcing funds.  On September 30, 2003, the parties 
signed supplemental contracts under which Infotech was to buy $2.1 million of software licenses 
and Quovadx was to pre-pay Infotech approximately $1 million for unspecified outsourcing 
work.  Quovadx shipped the additional $2.1 million in software to Infotech on the last day of the 
quarter.  Quovadx, with the concurrence of its outside auditor, offset the revenue from these two 
purported sales by its estimated outsourcing obligation to Infotech and recognized approximately 
$4.6 million in revenue for the quarter.  Quovadx planned to recognize the remaining revenue as 
Infotech performed outsourcing services. 

       In early October 2003, before Quovadx filed its quarterly report for the third quarter, 
Infotech told Quovadx that it did not have enough money to fund its required letters-of-credit.  
Quovadx agreed to wire $410,000 to assist Infotech in making a margin payment to an Indian 
bank, purportedly to establish and fund the required letters of credit.9
                                                                       In return, Infotech gave 
Quovadx a letter from the Indian bank expressing confidence that Infotech’s letter-of-credit 
would be opened (not funded) by October 21, 2003.  Quovadx relied on this letter as support for 
Infotech’s supposed ability to pay and recognized revenue on the third quarter Infotech 
transactions.  Quovadx falsely entered the $410,000 payment to Infotech in its books and records 
as a prepayment under the outsourcing agreements, when in fact Infotech had not satisfied the 
conditions for prepayment.   

       On October 22, 2003, Quovadx issued both a press release announcing the distribution 
and software development agreement with Infotech and a preliminary earnings release touting a 
183% increase in software licensing revenue over the third quarter of 2002.  The Infotech 
transaction accounted for approximately 60% of Quovadx’s reported third quarter software 
licensing revenue.  Quovadx’s share price increased over 25% on the news of the third quarter 
results. 

               2.     The Fourth Quarter Transactions 

       By mid-December 2003, although it appeared to Quovadx that Infotech had established 
one letter-of-credit, Infotech still had not funded this letter-of-credit and had not paid for either 
of its third quarter purchases.  Infotech told Quovadx that the software had still not been released 
from customs in India, which Infotech claimed was necessary before it could fund its letter-of-
credit.  Despite these significant issues, Quovadx, hoping to meet Wall Street expectations, asked 
Infotech to make another software purchase.  Infotech was unwilling to agree unless Quovadx 
immediately wired $500,000 to it as part of the outsourcing prepayment to which Quovadx had 
committed at the end of the third quarter.  Quovadx made this payment, even though Infotech 
had not met the conditions for prepayment under the outsourcing agreement for $440,000 of this 
amount.  To preserve its legal remedies, Quovadx also sent Infotech a default letter for failing to 
pay for its third quarter purchases.  Thus, by mid-December, Quovadx had sent $910,000 to 
Infotech, yet Infotech had not paid for any of the software licenses that it had bought from 
Quovadx.  10

                                                 
9
              In fact, unbeknownst to Quovadx, Infotech never used the money to establish and fund a letter-of-
       credit. 
10
             During the fourth quarter, Quovadx provided Infotech with about $10,000 in outsourcing work, 
       and trained some Infotech subcontractors on the use of Quovadx software.  Infotech eventually 
       performed outsourcing work for Quovadx worth about $500,000 based on the December 2003 
       prepayments. 
                                               -6-
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                                                                                       
       On December 31, 2003, Quovadx signed a contract to sell $6.5 million of software 
licenses to Infotech.  Quovadx simultaneously signed a supplemental agreement to pay Infotech 
up to $1.94 million for any outsourcing work that Infotech actually performed through August 
2004.  Quovadx also provided Infotech assurances that it would increase Quovadx’s outsourcing 
to Infotech significantly over the coming year.   

       On February 11, 2004, Quovadx issued its preliminary fourth quarter earnings release 
(attached to a Form 8-K filed the same day), which included the $6.5 million in Infotech 
revenue.  Quovadx issued this release even though Infotech had not paid for the third quarter 
purchases and Infotech’s ability to pay for the fourth quarter purchases depended on its ability to 
resell the software licenses.  The earnings release claimed that Quovadx’s total annual revenue 
for 2003 had increased about 30% and that its year-over-year software licensing revenue had 
grown about 173%.  The Infotech transactions accounted for virtually the entire increase in 
Quovadx’s software licensing revenue.  After this announcement, Quovadx’s stock price 
increased by about 10%, closing at $6.66 per share on February 12. 

       At the time of Quovadx’s year-end audit in mid-February 2004, Infotech still had not 
funded a letter-of-credit or made any payments for either the third or fourth quarter software 
purchases.  In early March 2004, Quovadx’s auditor advised it that the company would have to 
reverse the Infotech revenue from both the third and fourth quarters unless Infotech made a 
substantial payment before Quovadx’s annual report was due to be filed.  On March 8, 2004, 
therefore, Quovadx authorized Infotech to draw down the $1.94 million balance on Quovadx’s 
outsourcing letter-of-credit, with the understanding that Infotech would use these funds to 
arrange bank financing to pay Quovadx for the software purchases.  Immediately after receiving 
the $1.94 million, Infotech told Quovadx that it believed it was entitled to this money under the 
outsourcing agreement and would not use it to pay Quovadx for the software.  When Quovadx 
requested that Infotech return the money, Infotech refused.  Infotech never returned the money or 
paid for the software. 

       On March 15, 2004, Quovadx announced that it would reverse all revenue on sales to 
Infotech in the third and fourth quarters of 2003.  On March 18, Quovadx filed its annual report 
for 2003 which restated its financial results for the third and fourth quarters of 2003 and removed 
$11.1 million in revenue from transactions with Infotech.  In response to these events, the 
Quovadx board of directors commenced an investigation into the Infotech relationship which 
subsequently encompassed the Sourceworks and MicroStar transactions.  Shortly thereafter, 
Quovadx’s chief executive officer and chief financial officer resigned.  On May 14, 2004, 
Quovadx filed a Form 8-K in which it indicated that, as a result of its internal investigation, 
Quovadx had discontinued any further severance payments to its former chief executive officer 
and chief financial officer and demanded the return of severance payments already paid and prior 
compensation, including bonuses.  Quovadx also indicated that it had terminated its executive 
vice president of sales.   

       G.     Quovadx Prematurely Recognized $250,000 in Revenue in the Third Quarter 
              of 2002 

       In addition to the software licensing revenue that Quovadx fraudulently recognized in 
2003, Quovadx prematurely recognized $250,000 in the third quarter of 2002.  In May 2002, 
Quovadx announced the release of QuickTrials 1.0, a software product designed to help 
automate the management of clinical drug trials.  The following month, Quovadx entered into 
negotiations to sell QuickTrials for $250,000 to a company that managed clinical trials in the 
                                              -7-
---------------------Page 8---------------------

                                                                                         
pharmaceutical industry.  Because the existing version of QuickTrials did not meet all of the 
customer’s specifications, Quovadx and the customer discussed developing an acceptable 
version of QuickTrials, to be called QuickTrials 2.0.  In early September 2002, Quovadx 
proposed that the customer pay $250,000 for the platform software needed to run QuickTrials, 
and that they enter into a partnership to develop QuickTrials 2.0.  Quovadx told the customer that 
it would deliver the platform software in September and the first development (or beta) version 
of QuickTrials 2.0 in October 2002.   

       On September 30, 2002, the last day of the third quarter, Quovadx and the customer 
executed a contract under which Quovadx would provide the company beta versions of 
QuickTrials 2.0 and a commercial version of that software, if and when released.  Further, at the 
request of the customer, Quovadx extended the payment over eight months, which roughly 
corresponded to the anticipated completion of the development of QuickTrials 2.0.  Despite this 
extended payment plan and promise to deliver QuickTrials 2.0 in the future if and when 
Quovadx released it, Quovadx recognized the full $250,000 in revenue in the third quarter of 
2002.   

       In substance, the value of the transaction for the customer lay in obtaining the beta 
versions of QuickTrials 2.0, not the platform programs delivered in the third quarter.11
                                                                                         
Therefore, Quovadx should not have recognized the revenue from the transaction with the 
customer until at least the fourth quarter of 2002.  By prematurely recognizing this revenue, 
Quovadx overstated its software revenues for the third quarter of 2002 by approximately 10%.  
As part of its second restatement, Quovadx reversed the $250,000 in revenue from the third 
quarter of 2002 and recognized that amount for the fourth quarter of 2002. 

                                               IV. 
                                                  
                                   LEGAL CONCLUSIONS 

       A.      Violations of the Antifraud Provisions 

       Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and 
Rule 10b-5 thereunder prohibit a variety of fraudulent practices in connection with the offer, 
purchase or sale of securities.  An issuer violates these provisions when it makes material 
misstatements or omissions in annual or quarterly reports filed with the Commission, or in 
earning releases or other public statements.  SEC v. McNulty, 137 F.3d 732, 741 (2d Cir. 1998).  
“Moreover, half-truths are as violative ... as outright falsehoods.”  SEC v. Schiffer, S.D.N.Y. 
1998 Fed. Sec. L. Rep. ¶ 90,247, 1998 WL 307375, at *2 (S.D.N.Y.).  A fact is material if there 
is a substantial likelihood that a reasonable investor would consider the information to be 
important.  Basic v. Levinson, 485 U.S. 224, 231-32 (1988).  Information concerning a 
company’s financial condition and profitability is material information.  See, e.g., SEC v. 
Murphy, 626 F.2d 633, 653 (9th Cir. 1980).  “[E]arnings reports are among the pieces of data 
that investors find most relevant to their investment decisions.”  Ganino v. Citizens Util. Co., 228 
F.3d 154, 164 (2d Cir. 2000) (citation omitted). 
                                                 
11
             SOP 97-2 provides in pertinent part that: “When-and-if-available deliverables should be 
       considered in determining whether an arrangement includes multiple elements....  If an 
       arrangement includes multiple elements, the fee should be allocated to the various elements based 
       on vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value, regardless of any separate prices stated within 
       the contract for each element.” 
                                               -8-
---------------------Page 9---------------------

                                                                                         
       Section 10(b) and Rule 10b-5 of the Exchange Act and Section 17(a)(l) of the Securities 
Act require that a defendant act with scienter, which has been defined as “a mental state 
embracing intent to deceive, manipulate, or defraud.”  Aaron v. SEC, 446 U.S. 680, 701-02 
(1980); Ernst & Ernst v. Hochfelder, 425 U.S. 185, 193 n. 12 (1976).  Scienter can be satisfied 
by showing that a defendant acted recklessly.  See. e.g., ITT v. Cornfeld, 619 F.2d 909, 923 (2d 
Cir. 1980); Schiffer, 1998 WL 307375, at *3.  For the purposes of establishing scienter on the 
part of a company, the mental state of the company’s officers is imputed to the company.  SEC v. 
Manor Nursing Centers, Inc., 458 F.2d 1082, 1089 n.3 (2d Cir. 1972). 

       Quovadx fraudulently recognized revenue on the Sourceworks, MicroStar, and Infotech 
transactions.  In each of those transactions, one or more members of Quovadx’s senior 
management knew, or recklessly disregarded that those transactions either had material 
contingencies or were not true sales, and collection from the customers was not reasonably 
probable.  Sourceworks could not and would not pay for software licenses unless and until 
Quovadx secured a contract between Sourceworks and the VA.    The arrangement with 
MicroStar to hold software licenses in MicroStar’s inventory had no legitimate business purpose 
and MicroStar had no intent or ability to pay for the software licenses unless it could resell them 
to customers identified by Quovadx.  Quovadx attempted to disguise this arrangement by 
funneling an unrelated payment through MicroStar to make it appear that MicroStar had partially 
paid for the licenses.  Finally, Quovadx recognized more than $11 million in revenue on software 
sales to Infotech, even after the company knew or was reckless in not knowing that it was not 
reasonably probable that Infotech would pay for the software.  Indeed, Quovadx advanced 
Infotech nearly $1 million as an inducement for Infotech to buy some of the software, even 
though Infotech had not funded its required letters-of-credit.  Further, fearing that its auditor 
would require it to reverse the Infotech revenue, Quovadx gave Infotech nearly another $2 
million in the vain hope that Infotech would use that money to pay some of its debt.  

       As a result of its improper recognition of revenue from these transactions, Quovadx 
fraudulently overstated its software licensing revenue by $600,000 in the second quarter of 2003, 
by almost $5 million in the third quarter of 2003, and by $6.5 million in the fourth quarter of 
2003.  Moreover, although Quovadx had reversed the Infotech overstatement by the time the 
company filed its annual report for 2003, that annual report still included the revenue from the 
Sourceworks and MicroStar transactions.  Quovadx also issued false and misleading press 
releases during the period that materially misrepresented the company’s financial results and 
were attached to the Forms 8-K that Quovadx filed with the Commission in     the second, third and 
fourth quarters of 2003. 

       As a result of this conduct, Quovadx violated Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and 
Rule 10b-5 thereunder.  Because Quovadx had a continuously effective offering of securities 
pursuant to Forms S-8 and S-4 during the period, the company also violated Section 17(a) of the 
Securities Act.12

        

                                                 
12
             In May 2002, Quovadx filed a Form S-8 that became effective to offer stock in connection with 
       the company’s employee stock purchase plan (the Form S-8 was incorporated into Quovadx’s 
       subsequent annual and quarterly reports).  In addition, Quovadx filed a Form S-4 on November 
       12, 2003, and Amended Forms S-4 on December 4 and December 10, 2003, registering an offer 
       of securities in connection with Quovadx’s acquisition of RogueWave Software. 
                                               -9-
---------------------Page 10---------------------

                                                                                       
       B.     Reporting Violations 

       Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder 
require that issuers with securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, such as 
Quovadx, file annual and quarterly reports with the Commission and keep this information 
current.  These reports must be complete and accurate in all material respects.  United States v. 
Bilzerian, 926 F.2d 1285, 1298 (2d Cir. 1991); SEC v. Savoy Indus., Inc., 587 F.2d 1149, 1165 
(D.C. Cir. 1978), cert. denied                 , 440 U.S. 913 (1979).  Rule 12b-20 of the Exchange Act requires 
that an issuer’s periodic reports include any additional information “necessary to make the 
required statements, in the light of the circumstances under which they are made, not 
misleading.”  The issuer’s legal obligation “extends not only to accurate quantitative reporting of 
the required items in its financial statements, but also to other information, qualitative as well as 
quantitative, needed to enable investors to make informed decisions.”  In re Sony Corp. and 
Sumio Sano, 67 SEC Docket 1609, 1998 WL 439898 at *4 (Aug. 5, 1998). 

       Quovadx filed a quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 2002 that  
overstated the company’s software licensing revenue by 10% as a result of the company’s 
premature recognition of revenue from the transaction with the clinical trials manager.  
Recognition of the $250,000 in revenue in the third quarter did not conform to SOP 97-2, and 
Quovadx should have deferred recognizing this revenue until a subsequent quarter. 

       Quovadx entered into transactions with Sourceworks, MicroStar, and Infotech in which 
Quovadx knew or was reckless in not knowing that revenue should not be recognized.  By doing 
so, Quovadx fraudulently recognized revenue on transactions that were not actual sales.  As a 
result, Quovadx’s annual report for 2003, quarterly reports for the second and third quarters of 
2003, and earning releases for the second, third, and fourth quarters of 2003 contained materially 
false and misleading statements concerning Quovadx’s software licensing revenue.  Accordingly, 
Quovadx violated Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-
13 thereunder. 

       C.     Record-Keeping and Internal Controls Violations 

       Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires that issuers make and keep books, 
records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions 
and dispositions of the assets of the company.  Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires 
reporting companies to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to 
provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation 
of financial statements in conformity with GAAP and to maintain accountability of assets. 

       As discussed above, Quovadx improperly recognized revenue in the third quarter of 2002 
from the transaction with the clinical trials manager and, in the second, third and fourth quarters 
of 2003, from the transactions with Sourceworks, MicroStar, and Infotech.  As a result, 
Quovadx’s books and records were materially inaccurate because they overstated software 
licensing revenue and did not accurately or fairly reflect the transactions of the company.  
Quovadx also failed to maintain internal controls sufficient to ensure that revenue recognition 
would occur properly and that its financial statements would be prepared in conformity with 
GAAP.  Therefore, Quovadx violated Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. 

                                              -10-
---------------------Page 11---------------------

                                                                                     
                                              V. 
                                                
                                         FINDINGS 

       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Quovadx violated Section 17(a) of the 
Securities Act and Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and 
Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder. 

                                             VI. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Quovadx’s offer. 

       Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that: 

       Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and Section 21C of the Exchange Act, 
Quovadx cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of 
Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder. 

       By the Commission. 

        

                                                  Nancy M. Morris  
                                                  Secretary 

 

                                             -11-
