---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

 Bef                                     ore the

   SECURITIES                    AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 8931 / June 17, 2008 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 57979 / June 17, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2841 / June 17, 2008 

Administrative Proceeding 
File No. 3-13073 

In the Matter of                             ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND- 
                                             DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT 
Tamela Pallas,                               TO SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES 
                                             ACT OF 1933 AND SECTION 21C OF 
Respondent.                                  THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
                                             OF 1934, MAKING FINDINGS AND 
                                             IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST 
                                             ORDER 

                                          I. 

      The S ecurities and Exchang e Co mmission  (“Commission”) dee ms  it appropriate that 
cease-and-desist proceedings be , and hereby   are, instituted  pursuant to Section  8A of the 
Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securit ies Act”) and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (the “Exchange Act”) against Tamela Pallas (“Pallas” or “Respondent”). 

                                          II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose 
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the  Co mmission is a  pa rty, a nd withou t a dmitting or de nying the  findings c ontained 
herein, except that Res pondent  admits the Comm ission’s juri sdiction over he r and over the 
subject matter of th ese proceedings, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order  Instituting 
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings  Pursuant to Section  8A of  the Securities Act of   1933 and 
Section 21C of the Se curities Exchange Ac t of 1934, Making Findings and I mposing a Cease-
and-Desist Order. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               III.

                                           FINDINGS 


       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds    1
                                                                                   that: 

                                     A.  RESPONDENT 

 Tamela         Pallas, 50, resides in Texas and, during the relevant period, was Chief Operating 
Officer and later Chief Executive Officer of CMS Marketing Services & Trading (“MS&T”), a 
subsidiary of CMS Energy Corp. (“CMS”).   CMS is a Michig an corporation with its princip al 
place of business in Jackson, Michigan.  CMS’s shares are registered with the Commission under 
Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol 
“CMS.”  During the relevant period, MS&T was active in retail marketing of gas and wholesale 
trading of electricity and natural gas.  Pallas is no longer employed at MS&T. 

       Prior to joining MS&T on Nove  mber 1, 1999, Pa llas s erved as an  officer of Reliant 
Energy Services, Inc. (“RES”), a subsidiary of Reliant Energy, Inc., that was  a part of Reliant’s 
Wholesale Group and that, a mong other things, traded in and m arketed power, natural gas, and 
other energy-related commodities.  Until August 31, 2002, Reliant was an electric and gas public 
utility holding co mpany exe mpt from r egistration under Section 3( a)(2) of the Public Utility 
Holding Company Act of 1935 (the “1935 Act”).   Reliant's common stock was registered with 
the Commission under Section 12( b) of the Exchange Act, and  traded on th e New York Stock 
Exchange under the symbol REI until October 1, 2002. 

                                          B.  FACTS 

       1.      Overview of Round Trip Trades. 

     The round trip trades 2
                             were tr ansactions conducted by  Reliant and CM S (among others) 
whereby Reliant and CMS essentially  agreed with one another (or  with other counterparties) to 
simultaneously both purchase and sell electric power or natural gas for the same volume and at 
the same price, with no delivery contemplated and w ith neither party making any profit.     3
                                                                                                A t 
both Reliant and CMS, the tran     sactions were intended s  olely to i mprove each co mpany’s 
standing in industry  publications that r anked energy marketing co mpanies bas ed on volu mes 
reported to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”).  However, in both cases, the 
trades also had the ef  fect of  causi ng th e co mpanies to o verstate the r evenues and exp enses 
reported in each company’s respective Commission filings as the transactions were reported on a 
gross basis in each company’s financial statements. 

   1
     The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other 
person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
   2
     Round t rip trades at CMS and Reliant were referred to variously as  “Brag-a-Watts,” “volumetric” deals, 
“back-to-back” trades, “net-zero” trades, “no margin” trades and “ze ro-margin” trades.  The press coined the term 
“round trip” to describe the trades in articles reporting on the practice first published in May 2002 and will be used 
in this Order. 
   3
     Typically, the round trip trades had no impact on CMS’s net earnings.  However, in at least one instance, RES 
paid a counterparty a nominal accommodation fee as part of the transaction. 

                                               -2-

---------------------Page 3---------------------

       2.      Round Trip Trades at Reliant. 

     In late 1998 or early  1999 a ser ies of inform al str ategy  meetings were held within the 
Wholesale Group of Reliant to find ways to increase trading volume.  One option considered was 
to do frequent day  trades in and out of power  or gas positions.   The Wholesale Group rejected 
this sort of transactional churni ng, however, after receiving an es timate of the tr ansaction costs 
associated with each trade.  Ultimately, Reliant officials decided to arrange a smaller number of 
offsetting large volume trades with willing counterparties.  

     Reliant officials initia lly considered booking the round trip   trades at a pric e of zero, but 
rejected the id ea becau se i t w ould skew  th e  market pr ices reported  to F ERC.   Instead, th e 
company booked the round trip  trades at m arket prices.   Based on Reliant’s practice at the ti me 
of recording all trades on a gross basis, the revenues and expe nses associated with the round trip 
trades were recorded in Reliant’s books and records.  Recording all trades on a gross basis meant 
that Reliant’s reported revenue figures were not netted against o ffsetting expenses.  As a result, 
the round trip trans  actions conve yed an inaccurate picture of   the com pany’s revenues and 
expenses. 

     In 1999 Reliant entered into fi ve power round trip  trades totaling 29.75 m illion megawatt 
hours with three  counterparties: PanCanadian Energy Services, Inc. (“PanCanadian”), Merchant 
Energy Gr oup of  the A mericas, I nc. ( “MEGA”), and Public Service Co  mpany of Colorado. 
MEGA requested and  Reliant paid an acco mmodation fee of $50,000 for its  trade.  Reliant also 
entered into a series of  round trip gas trades th at year for 182 billion cu bic feet, valued at $364 
million, with Cokinos Energy .  In  total, the  1999 power and gas round trip  trades added over 
$1.4 billion in offsetting gross revenue and expenses to Reliant’s books.  

     Reliant's first series of round  trip trades was with Cokinos  Energy for an aggr egate $364 
million in natur al gas to be de livered from April to June 1999.    The trades were not initially 
entered into Reliant's computerized trading system or its accounting and ge neral ledger system. 
In Jul y 1999, the RES Senior   Vice President of Gas Tradi  ng, who reported to Respondent, 
brought the trades to  the attention of  Reliant’s Chief Risk Officer.   As a result of  discussions 
involving, at various times, Reliant’s Chief Risk Officer, Manager of SEC Reporting, Director of 
Financial Reporting, and C ontroller, the tr ades were brought to  the attention of Reliant’s Chief 
Accounting Officer.  These discussions involved, among other things, the structure of the trades, 
their purpose, and whether and ho w to accoun t for the tr ades.   Thereafter, Reliant entered the 
round trip trades into its books after the close of the second quarter of 1999 using a post-clos ing 
adjustment.4
              Respondent did not par ticipate in these or any other di  scussions or decis ions at 
Reliant regarding how to account for the round trip trades. 

       In the fourth quarter of 1999 an individual     in Reliant’s credit  group brought to the 
attention of  the RES Vice Pres  ident of Risk Control a round tr     ip trade that   exceeded the 
counterparty's credit limit.   The RES Vice President of Ris k Control brought th e trade to the 

   4
     R eliant al so pr ovided d ocumentation co ncerning t he $ 364 m illion p ost-closing ad justment t o i ts out side 
auditor as part of the SEC reporting binders for the second quarter of 1999.  I n February 2000, Reliant’s outside 
auditor reviewed and approved the post-closing adjustment as part of their annual audit.   

                                                -3-

---------------------Page 4---------------------

attention of Reliant’s Chief Risk Officer later that same afternoon.  Reliant’s Chief Risk Officer 
told this individual th at the trade was a pprovable so long as  it did not  create a margin or credit 
risk to Reliant.  Because round trip trades had  exactly offsetting buy and sell positions, they did 
not give rise to margin or credit risk to the  company.  Following this discussion, Reliant’s credit 
department did not generate exception reports for subsequent round trip trades. 

       These round trip trades continued at Reliant in 2000 and through the third quarter of 2001 
when they were discontinued.   However, Reliant did not re state its fina ncial statements for th e 
affected years until May 2002, after press reports of round trip trading at Dynegy and CMS led to 
the disclosure that Reliant had also done the trades. 

       On May 12, 2003, the Commission issued a settled cease-and-desist order against Reliant 
Resources, Inc. and Reliant En ergy, Inc. finding that each had   violated Section 17(a) of the 
Securities Act and Sections 10( b), 13(a), and 13(b)(2) of the   Exchange Act a nd Rules 10b-5, 
12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a- 13 ther eunder.  In the Matter of R  eliant  Resources, Inc. and Reliant 
Energy, Inc., Administrative Proceeding File No. 3-11110 (May 12, 2003). 

       3.      Round Trip Trades at CMS. 

       As with Reliant, CMS m aterially overstated its revenues and expenses in 2000 and 2001 
as a result of round trip   energy  transactions conducted by   its Houst on-based energy -trading 
subsidiary, MS&T.   These overstatements appeared in cer tain 10-Qs and 10-Ks filed with the 
Commission.   During the rele vant period, CMS also fi       led  with the Co mmission severa l 
registration statements in connection with offerings of its securities.5
                                                                       The registration statements 
incorporated by  reference th e m aterially m isleading  Forms 10-Q and the 2000 For  m 10-K, 
including the financial statements incorporated in the filings. 

       CMS’s sole purpose for engaging in the r      ound trip trades was   to elevate MS&T’s 
standing in certain industry publications that ranked energy marketing companies based on total 
FERC-reported volumes.   Specifically, CMS sought to be am ong the top 20 tier (“Top  20”) in 
such industr y publications in or der to attr act requests for pr oposals fro m  municipalities that 
considered such indus try rankings as a useful m eans of identi fying which co mpanies should 
receive requests for proposals. 

       Although the purpose of the round  trip trades was to boost  CMS’s rankings, the tr ades 
also had the effect of artificially inflating CMS’s revenues and expens es.   CMS reported al l 
trades on a gross basis, which  meant that its re ported revenue figures we re not netted agains t 
offsetting expenses.  As a result, the round trip transactions conveyed an inaccurate picture of the 
company’s revenues and expenses. 

       On July 12, 2000, MS&T and RES entered into a round trip trade with a September 2000 
term involving 10,000,000 MWH of pow er and $380  million in revenu e and expense.   As at 
Reliant, Respondent and her staff at MS&T communicated the structure, magnitude and purpose 
of the trans actions to CMS.   Before its execution,  this transaction was  reviewed by MS&T’s 

   5
     CMS filed t he following  registration statements during t he relevant period:   a Form S-3 on  December 15, 
2000, December 22, 2000, and December 12, 2001, and a Form S-8 on April 11, 2001. 

                                               -4-

---------------------Page 5---------------------

Director of Credit M anagement, CMS’s Chief Risk Officer, and CMS’s Chie f Financial Officer 
who approved the practice.   6
                                On or before October 20, 200  0, CMS’s outside auditor learned 
about the transaction from its audit team in Houston responsible for MS&T.   During this same 
period, CMS’s Chief Accounting  Officer and CMS’s Audit Co mmittee Chairman discussed the 
accounting for the $380-million dollar round trip trade in a conference call on October 25, 2000 
with CMS’s outside auditor w ho advised that acc ounting for the trade  on a gross basis was 
appropriate.  Respondent did not participate  in such discussions or decisions on how to account 
for the trades.  The $380-million dollar round trip trade  also came to the at tention of the CMS 
Director of Financial  Reporting in conn ection w ith th e pr eparation of  the MS &T Resu lts of 
Operations for the CMS 2000 third quarter 10-Q.     7 

       Separately, Respondent’s staff informed CMS’s accounting  department that the $380 -
million dollar round trip trade was the sour    ce of  a substantial increase  in current assets and 
liabilities for CMS for the  month ended September 30, 2000.   CMS’s accounting staff, in turn, 
prepared an internal variance report for that same month that was distributed to CMS’s executive 
officers (including CMS’s Chie f Exec utive Office r, Chie f Fina ncial Office r, Chie f Ope rating 
Officer, General Couns el, and Vice  President in Charge  of Investor Relati ons) and the entire 
CMS Board of Directors that attributed CMS’s increase in receivables and payables to MS&T’s 
“electric wholesale activities  with Reliant Energy.”   Thereafter, through Jul y 2001, every  time 
MS&T did round trip trades, Resp ondent’s staff would identify  the round trip trades by  dollar 
amounts as the source of  the corresponding increases in current assets and liabilities and CMS’s 
accounting staff would then  attribute those in creases to “bu y/sale” “deals” with Reliant in th e 
monthly variance reports given to the CMS executive officers and Board. 

       During its audit of the 2001 first quarter financial statements, MS&T disclosed to CMS’s 
outside auditor thr ee “no- margin” transactions with RES w        ith revenues and corresponding 
expenses of $1.2 billion.   CMS’s outside auditor, in turn, brought  the round trip trades to the 
attention of CMS’s Aud it Committee Chairman who discussed the trades first with Respondent 
and CMS’s Chief Executive Officer     8
                                        and then with CMS’s outside auditor and Chief Accounting 

   6
     Respondent also discussed the proposed marketing strategy with MS&T’s Vice President of Power Trading & 
Marketing and MS&T’s Vice President of Wholesale Power Trading, both of whom supported the strategy.   
   7
     Th e i nitial d raft of th e MS&T Resu lts  of Operation s  for t he CMS  2000 t hird qu arter 10 Q prep ared  by 
Respondent’s  staff  did  not i nclude re ferences t o g ross r evenues  or v olumes.   CMS’s fi nancial re porting st aff 
subsequently revised the proposed draft to include references to total volumes and volume percentage increases.  In 
response, Res pondent’s staff specifically disclose d to the CMS Directo r of Fi nancial Rep orting  that th e trad es 
generating the increased volumes did not contemplate physical delivery, made no margin, and were being done only 
for t he  purpose of  “p uffing  up t he  volumes” an d s pecifically suggest ed t hat  he  delete t he v olume refe rences. 
Nevertheless, CMS included volume references in the MS&T Results of Operations for the CMS 2000 third quarter 
10Q and every 10Q thereafter during the relevant time period.   Respondent did not participate in drafting CMS’s 
third  quarter earnings  release o r an y su bsequent earn ings release or C ommission filin g.   Later, after read ing a 
published press release or Commission filing, Respondent asked CMS’s Chief Financial Officer why CMS used the 
phrase “lower margin” to e xplain certain revenue increases when the transactions contributing significantly to the 
revenue increases were “zero margin.”  CMS’s Chief Financial Officer dismissed Respondent’s concern. 
   8
     CMS’s  Audit Committee Chairman asked CMS’s C hief Executive Officer and Respondent about the “zero -
margin” trades.  CMS’s Chief Executive Officer responded that the trades were: (i) commonly done in the industry, 
(ii) done to establish MS&T on league tables as a means of showing MS&T as a viable commodities trader, and (iii) 
that such trading did not affect earnings, cash flow or the balance sheet/shareholders’ equity.  Respondent told the 

                                                  -5-

---------------------Page 6---------------------

Officer.  At the reques t of  the CMS Audit Comm ittee Chairman, Respondent explained to the 
CMS Board of Director s what MS&T’s round trip  tr ades were, their  purpose, and how they 
worked and answered the questions asked by the Board. 

       The outside auditor’s review of the round trip trades continued into the second quarter of 
2001.9
        At that time, a member of the MS&T audit team concluded that revenues and expenses 
from the round trip trades should be recorded on a net basis – c ontrary to MS&T’s (and CMS’s) 
practice and the audit team’s prior guidance.  Neither Respondent, others at CMS, nor the CMS 
audit team, however, were apprised of this conclusion. 

       A few days prior to October 2001 (prior to the filing of CMS’s third quarter Form 10-Q), 
CMS’s outside auditor reco mmended to CMS that  it record the r evenues and exp enses from 
round trip trades only if: 
       ♦	 The parties to the trade bear both credit and performance risk; 
       ♦	 Title to the related commodity transfers to the buyer; and 
       ♦	 Settlement is for the gross proceeds (checks   must be exchanged  and cashed f or the gross 
           amount of the transaction). 

       The round trip trades – which involved no risk, no net transfer of title and no exchange of 
cash – could not s atisfy these cr iteria.   Respondent first learne d of this guidance on or about 
October 2, 2001 when CMS’s Chie  f Accounting Officer infor med Respondent and MS&T’s 
Controller that CMS had  decided to change the wa y it accounted for the r ound-trip trades in the 
financial state ments it f iled w ith the SEC.    Thereafter, Respondent wa s advised on sever al 
occasions both before and after the filing of the CMS third quarter earnings release and Form 10-
Q that revenues and expenses for the round tr ip trades were not incl uded “in the numbers being 
reported for the  financial/SEC reporting purposes.”   Nevertheless, CMS reported in th e third 
quarter of 2001 the reve  nues and expens es from  MS&T’s th ird quarter round trip trades, 
resulting in material financial misstatements. 

       By recording revenues and   expenses from  the round trip   trades, CMS overstated its 
revenues and expenses  by a total of  $5.2 billion over a one- year period:   $1.0 billion (10%) in 
2000, and $4.2 billion (36%) for the first thr  ee quarters of 2001.   On March 24, 2002, CMS’s 
auditors advised CMS that the financial results of the round trip trades conducted in 2001 would 
have to be reclassified to record them all on a net bas is, which CMS did in its annual report for 
2001.10
         However, CMS did not reclassify the financial results of the round trip trades conducted 
in 2000 until May 29, 2002. 

       On March 17, 2004, the Commission issued a settled cease-and-desist order against CMS 
Energy Corp. and MS&T’s Contr  oller, finding  that each had violated   Section 17(a) of the 

CMS Audit Committee Chairm an that the trades were ongoing, arranged transactions with RES t hat represented 
“more than half” of MS&T’s volume. 
   9
     This review included round trip trades that MS&T had done for that quarter that were disclosed by MS&T to 
the outside auditors. 
   10
      MS&T conducted additional round trip trades in November and December of 2001.  However, the revenues 
and expenses from those trades were not included in Commission filings. 

                                               -6-
---------------------Page 7---------------------

Securities Act and Sections 10(b), 13(a) and 13(b)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 12b-
20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder.    In the Matter of CMS Energy Corp. and Terry Woolley    , 
Administrative Proceeding File No. 3-11436. 

                                      Respondent’s Conduct 

       Respondent participated in and approved of the decision to do the round trip trades while 
she was Senior Vice President of Reliant’s W holesale Group and as the  Chief Operating Officer 
and later Chief Executive Officer  of MS&T.   Before her resignation in  October 1999, Reliant 
completed a total of six round trip trades.     After Respondent joined CM S, she agreed at the 
request of Reliant’s Senior Vice President of Power Trading to do  round trip trades with Reliant. 
Thereafter, traders at  MS&T under Respondent’s supervis           ion executed round      trip trades 
beginning with the  third quarter of 2000 and  ending with the fourth quarter of 2001, the sol  e 
purpose of which was at all times to raise MS&T’s profile in industry league tables by improving 
MS&T’s FERC-reported volumes.       11
                                        Although Respondent neither participated in discussions or 
decisions r egarding how to account for the tr    ansactions nor participated in drafting earnings 
releases or Commission filings at either Reliant or CMS,     12
                                                               Respondent should have known that 
the revenues and expenses associ  ated with the  round tr ip trades would  be included in each 
company’s financial statements, including filings made with the Commission. 

       Respondent’s conduct with respec t to the round trip trades  was negligent and, as s uch, 
was a caus e of the f iling of reports, including offering  materials, which included  revenues and 
expenses related to round trip trades.  Respondent’s negligent conduct was also therefore a cause 
of the related misstatement of the transactions in each company’s books, records and accounts. 

                                                  C. 

       As a result of the conduct de scribed above, Respondent Pall as was a cause of Reliant’s 
and CMS’s violations of Sections  17(a )(2) a nd (3) of the Se curities A ct, S ections 13(a) an d 
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder.       13 

                                                 IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Co mmission deems it appr opriate to  impose the sanctions 
specified in the Respondent’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, IT IS HE REBY ORDERED, pursu ant to Section  8A of the Secur ities Act 
and Section 21C of the Exchange Act, that 

   11
      Respondent an d others at CM S believed that MS&T remained relatively  unknown outside Michigan and th at some of 
CMS’s municipal customers co nsidered industry rankings of FERC-reported volume as  a useful means of identif ying which 
companies should receive requests for proposals and, therefore, round trip trades could improve MS&T’s industry profile. 
   12
      Respondent and her respective staffs di d communicate the structure, magnitude and purpose  of the transactions to their 
respective parent companies and to the persons responsible for financial repor ting at those companies, as early as the first round 
trip trades conducted at each company. 
   13 
     KPMG, LLP. v. SEC, 289 F.3d 109, 120 (D.C. Cir. 2002) (negligence alone is sufficient to establish causing liability for 
non-scienter violations under Section 21C of the Exchange Act). 

                                                 -7-

---------------------Page 8---------------------

       Respondent Pallas ceas e and  desist from committing or ca using any violation and any 
future violation of Section  17(a)(2) a nd (3) of the  Sec urities  Act, and  ceas e and  d esist f rom 
causing any violation and any future violation of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange 
Act and Rules  12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder. 

       By the Commission. 

                                                          Florence E. Harmon 
                                                          Acting Secretary 

                                              -8-

