---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                     BEFORE THE 

                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 8790 / March 15, 2007 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 55476 / March 15, 2007 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2578 / March 15, 2007 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12592 

In the Matter of                     ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
                                     PROCEEDINGS, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
FRANKLYN A. CAINE,                   IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
                                     PURSUANT TO SECTION 8A OF THE 
Respondent.                          SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 AND SECTION 21C 
                                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

                                            I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the 
Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Franklyn A. Caine (“Caine” or “Respondent”). 

                                            II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting 
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order 
Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.1 

1
  In a separate civil action filed simultaneously with this proceeding, Caine separately consented to the entry of a 
judgment by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia pursuant to Section 20(d) of the Securities Act and 
Section 21(d) of the Exchange Act ordering him to pay a civil penalty of $125,000 and disgorgement of $550,000 
plus pre-judgment interest of $156,072.  SEC v. Franklyn A. Caine, Civil Action No. 07-cv-00494 (GK). 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 2 

       A.     RESPONDENT 

       1.     Caine, age 57, served as the Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) of Raytheon 
Company (“Raytheon”) from April 1999 to December 2002. 

       B.     SUMMARY 

       2.     Between 1997 and 2001, Raytheon Company and certain members of its senior 
management (“Raytheon” or the “company”) made false and misleading disclosures and used 
improper accounting practices that operated as a fraud by masking the declining results and 
deteriorating business of Raytheon Aircraft Company (“RAC”) and inaccurately reporting the 
company’s operating results on both a segmented and consolidated basis.  As set forth below, 
certain of these disclosures and accounting practices were undertaken by or with the knowledge 
of senior company officers, including Caine. 

       3.     Between 1997 and 2001, Raytheon failed to fully and accurately disclose known 
risks, trends, uncertainties, and other information concerning the deteriorating state of RAC’s 
commuter aircraft business and the negative impact this decline was having on asset values 
associated with RAC’s line of nineteen-seat, turboprop aircraft (the “commuters” or the “1900s”) 
and, thus, on the company’s (including RAC’s) results of operations.  Raytheon also engaged in 
several improper accounting practices that delayed and mischaracterized known losses associated 
with RAC’s commuter line during this time period.   

       4.     As Raytheon’s CFO, Caine failed to make or ensure the timely, accurate, and full 
disclosure of these material trends and uncertainties in the company’s public filings during 2000 
and 2001 and failed to take sufficient steps to ensure that Raytheon properly accounted for the 
company’s on- and off-balance sheet commuter assets during this time period.  Caine also did 
not ensure that the company maintained an adequate system of internal accounting controls 
related to these assets. 

       5.     Had Raytheon properly accounted for its commuter assets, the company would 
have reported material reductions in RAC’s reported operating income of at least $34 million, 
$22 million, and $21 million at year-end 1998, 1999, and 2000, respectively, which represented 
13 percent of the subsidiary’s reported annual operating income in each of these periods.   

       6.     RAC’s operating results would have been further reduced by at least $67 million 
(41 percent) at year-end 2000 had Caine and others in senior Raytheon and RAC management 
timely and appropriately recognized losses inherent in a planned “soft landing” of the commuter 
aircraft line.   Internal company documents and other information further indicate that, at this 

2 
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer and are not binding on any other person or entity in 
this or any other proceeding. 

                                               2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

time, these senior executives expected commuter losses of $240 million given the cash sales 
prices that had been approved in the “soft landing,” and a charge of $67 million to $240 million 
would have reduced Raytheon’s 2000 profit before taxes by at least 8 to 27 percent.  Caine and 
others, however, caused Raytheon to improperly take this charge in the third quarter of 2001, 
when the company wrote down its on-balance sheet commuter assets and increased reserves for 
its off-balance sheet commuter receivables by a total of $693 million after the terrorist attacks of 
September 11th.  Given the charge that the company should have taken at year-end 2000, 
Raytheon’s third quarter 2001 commuter loss provision was materially overstated by at least 10 
to 53 percent. 

       C.     BACKGROUND 

       7.     Raytheon is a Delaware corporation, headquartered in Waltham, Massachusetts.  
The company is an industry leader in defense, government electronics, space technology, and 
business and special mission aircraft.  Between 1997 and 2001, Raytheon reported between $13 
billion and $20 billion in net sales revenue annually and employed between 75,000 to 120,000 
individuals.  During this time period and continuing through today, Raytheon’s securities have 
been registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and listed 
on the New York, Chicago, and Pacific Exchanges. 

       8.     In the early 1990s, Raytheon was a diversified, multi-national conglomerate, 
which operated in the defense, electronics, engineering and construction, major appliances and 
aircraft businesses.  The company formed RAC in 1994 through the combination of Beech 
Aircraft and Raytheon Corporate Jets, and the wholly-owned Raytheon subsidiary has been 
reported as a separate segment in all of the company’s public filings since that time.   

       9.     RAC manufactures, markets, and services business jets, turboprops, and piston-
powered aircraft for the world’s commercial, fractional ownership, and military aircraft markets.  
Due to the cyclical nature of these markets, RAC often experienced fluctuating results.  For 
example, between 1997 and 2001, RAC generated between $2.3 billion and $3.2 billion in net 
sales revenue for the company annually, accounting for 13 to 19 percent of Raytheon’s 
consolidated annual sales revenues.  In addition, while the revenues generated by the commuter 
aircraft product line represented approximately 1 percent of Raytheon’s consolidated net sales 
revenue during this time period, the company’s financing of those sales left Raytheon with 
substantial recourse obligations related to over $1 billion in commuter receivables that were off 
the balance sheet, which represented approximately 9 percent of Raytheon’s reported 
stockholder’s equity each year between 1997 and 2001. 

       10.    In 1997, Raytheon completed two multi-billion dollar defense acquisitions in an 
effort to streamline its operations and solidify its position as one of the nation’s largest military 
contractors.  These acquisitions led to a doubling of Raytheon’s long-term debt load (increasing 
it to over $8 billion) and a substantial lowering of Raytheon’s credit rating.  In an effort to reduce 
the burden of its debt expense on earnings and cash flows, Raytheon began to divest many of its 
“non-core” commercial units, using the cash generated by these sales to pay down debt it 
incurred as a result of its defense acquisitions.  RAC was considered for divestiture as part of this 
plan. 

                                               3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

       D. 	   RAYTHEON’S IMPROPER ACCOUNTING AND DISCLOSURES FOR 
              ITS COMMUTER BUSINESS 

       11.    Between 1997 and 2001, Raytheon deferred substantial losses related to RAC’s 
line of commuter aircraft.  These planes were typically used by small, thinly capitalized airlines 
to transport passengers along regional or local routes.  These carriers were generally seen as 
significant credit risks, were thus frequently unable to obtain independent financing for their 
aircraft purchases, and typically lacked sufficient cash on hand to make outright purchases of 
RAC’s commuter aircraft.   

       12.    As a result, RAC rarely sold its new or used 1900s for cash.  Instead, RAC’s sales 
were regularly financed by the subsidiary’s captive finance company, Raytheon Aircraft Credit 
Corporation (“RACC”), which often offered below-market interest rates and other favorable 
terms to customers in order to increase demand for the 1900s.  RAC also regularly took used 
commuter aircraft (model 1900Bs and 1900Cs) in trade for the purchase of newer planes (model 
1900Ds), which left RAC with a supply of used 1900s in inventory that required reconditioning 
and refurbishment in order to be remarketed. 

       13.    RACC sold most of its aircraft receivables, including commuter financing 
receivables, into a revolving credit facility funded by an outside bank syndicate, which removed 
the debt associated with these financed sales from the company’s balance sheet.  Under the terms 
of the credit facility agreement, Raytheon was obligated to re-purchase certain delinquent and 
defaulted receivables, and the level of recourse to Raytheon on the commuter receivables 
generally ranged between 75 to 100 percent depending upon the type of financing.  RACC also 
renegotiated and restructured many of the payment arrangements it had with certain RAC 
customers in order to keep these customers from becoming overly delinquent or otherwise 
defaulting on their notes. 

       14.    As Raytheon’s CFO, Caine was aware that the company regularly substituted new 
or restructured commuter notes for delinquent receivables prior to their triggering any defaults 
under the credit facility.  Thus, despite the financial stress accumulating in the portfolio’s 
commuter exposure, Caine was of the view that the portfolio as a whole was always 
“performing” from an accounting standpoint. 

              1.      The Declining Commuter Market between 1997 and 1998 

       15.    During the late 1990s, RAC began to experience softening demand for its 
commuter aircraft due to, among other things, shifting consumer preferences, increased 
government regulation of nineteen-seat aircraft, increased competition in the used aircraft 
market, and the introduction of regional jets.  These and other factors combined to place 
downward pressure on the sales prices, lease rates, and asset values of these planes.  Thus, in 
1997, RAC began for the first time to place used 1900s with customers on operating leases and 
substantially ceased outright sales of used 1900s for cash.   

       16.    In addition, many of the used commuters that RAC received as returns, 
repossessions, and trade-ins required significant refurbishment before RAC could re-market 
them.  These refurbishment costs were capitalized as part of the aircraft’s book value, which led 

                                               4

---------------------Page 5---------------------

to “[h]igher book values” that “can and do exceed fair market value.”  In response, during the 
mid 1990s, prior to Caine’s arrival, RAC adopted a policy of depreciating the used commuter 
aircraft on an accelerated basis during the life of their leases to “bring down values” to amounts 
that were more likely to be recovered in later cash sales.  By so doing, RAC improperly deferred 
and re-characterized impairment losses associated with high commuter book values as ordinary 
depreciation. 

       17.    As Raytheon’s CFO, Caine understood that the book value of all used commuters 
could not be recovered by cash sales into the then-current market.  He was also repeatedly 
informed by Raytheon’s outside auditors that “The most significant accounting issue for used 
commuters is the realizability of assets.  Management’s plan is to lease the aircraft, depreciate 
them down to 50% of book value over 10 years and sell them to the freighter market at the end of 
the lease.” 

              2.      The Deferral of Significant Commuter Losses in 1999 

       18.    Throughout 1999, certain senior Raytheon and RAC officers (including Caine) 
were made aware of potential negative and adverse trends, uncertainties, and risks related to 
RAC’s commuter business. 

       19.    In April 1999, Caine’s first month as Raytheon’s CFO, an outside consultant 
presented a report to senior management, which stated that the commuter market was “at a 
turning point,” that other “[c]arriers have begun to flood the market with…used 19-seat 
airplanes,” that “lease rates for used 19-seat aircraft [we]re declining,” that the “[d]ownward 
pressure on lease rates w[ould] grow as the surplus of 19-seat aircraft expands,” and that 
“[a]dditional lease rate pressures could impact the company’s asset values and re-marketing 
efforts.”   

       20.    An April 1999 e-mail that previewed this report for Caine informed him that such 
“surplus” aircraft and “lower lease rates could drive declining asset values and represent a 
potential material write down” of the commuter assets.  Caine subsequently received a copy of 
the report, and both he and other senior Raytheon officers were briefed on this situation and 
management’s views of it.  That same month, during their first meeting, Raytheon’s lead auditor 
discussed issues related to the commuters with Caine. 

       21.    In May 1999, an internal Raytheon study forecasted that RAC’s portfolio of 
commuter receivables would generate an estimated $95 million in losses due to “[t]he lack of 
portfolio equity, poor customer credit and payment behavior, high loan-to-value ratios, and the 
modest level of reserves” established for these assets.  That same study identified a “worst case 
scenario” that could generate $200 million in additional losses depending upon the impact of the 
“upcoming introduction” of regional jets.   

       22.    An e-mail that previewed the conclusions of this internal study further informed 
Caine that there was an “obvious” need for a “material write-down” of RAC’s commuter assets, 
that these losses were “large and growing,” that RAC was engaging in “misleading financial 
reporting,” and that the situation was “as bad as [the author of the study had] seen.”  Caine 

                                               5

---------------------Page 6---------------------

subsequently received a copy of the internal study, and both he and other senior Raytheon 
officers were briefed on both its conclusions and management’s views of them. 

       23.    In June 1999, Raytheon’s then-Controller advised Caine that there was an 
estimated exposure of $300 million to $500 million in marking the RACC portfolio to market. 

       24.    Also in June 1999, Caine and other senior Raytheon officers received a 
“response” from RAC to the April and May 1999 external and internal studies.  This response set 
forth the view of RAC management that there was greater demand for new commuter aircraft 
than forecast by the company’s outside consultant.  With respect to the internal study, RAC’s 
response advised Caine and others that it was “a corporate decision” whether to adopt a proposed 
“equity model” as an alternative way to establish commuter reserves at RAC, but described the 
model as “[a] means to build reserves at the expense of current period profits.”  RAC’s response 
instead proposed a series of “risk mitigation plans” for the commuter portfolio, such as 
addressing the $95 million commuter exposure identified in the May 1999 internal study through 
various means (including “third party, no recourse notes” that would provide an estimated $93 
million “improvement”).  These sales did not materialize, however.  Yet, reserves were not 
adequately increased. 

       25.    In July 1999, Raytheon’s investment bankers informed company executives that 
“[p]ortfolio policies may be masking problems from being recognized,” that “actual collateral 
values may be substantially lower than loan balances,” and that, if the company attempted to 
securitize all of RAC’s commuter receivables, the commuter portfolio would be valued “at a 
material discount to its current book value.”  Management subsequently decided not to pursue a 
securitization of these receivables. 

       26.    In August 1999, as part of an initial consideration to divest RAC, Caine and other 
senior Raytheon executives were informed that there was “approximately $250 Million - $350 
Million risk in [the] $2.4 Billion loan/lease portfolio,” and the “risk is likely to approach the high 
end of this range over time” since “about 40% of loan/lease payments are delinquent” and 
“business cycle downturn may also drive up defaults [and] reduce residual values of used 
aircraft.” 

       27.    In the Fall of 1999, after the initial effort to divest RAC failed, Raytheon 
management attempted to sell RAC’s portfolio of aircraft receivables (including its commuter 
receivables) to an outside finance company.  The finance company, however, informed certain 
Raytheon executives that it would not purchase any of the commuter receivables due to, among 
other things, concerns over their high loan-to-value ratios and high concentrations in certain 
customers.  The finance company also provided Raytheon personnel with an independent 
valuation analysis of the 1900s, which stated that the commuter industry was experiencing a 
“distinct reduction in sales activity” and a “downturn” in leasing activity over the past year.  This 
report also listed estimated market values for the 1900s that were below their book values. 

       28.    In October 1999, due to unrelated difficulties in its defense businesses and 
engineering and construction unit, Raytheon announced an unexpected $640 million charge, 
which caused the price of the company’s stock to fall 44 percent in one day.  This charge also led 
to a downgrading of the company’s bond and credit ratings, and Raytheon management 

                                               6

---------------------Page 7---------------------

continued with the strategy to pay down the company’s debt by divesting certain “non-core” 
commercial units.  As part of this strategy, senior Raytheon management undertook a new effort 
to divest RAC. 

       29.    Contemporaneous documents further indicate that, during January 2000 
presentations to Raytheon management and the audit committee, the company’s outside auditors 
informed Caine and others that they had a “continued concern about commuter portfolio 
exposure,” that “higher refurb[ishment] costs on used commuters” accounted for a $15 million 
decrease in RAC’s operating profit that year, that the company “need[ed] to relook at FAS 125 
calculations based on higher refurb costs,” that the used commuter inventory was projected to be 
“higher than prior years” in 2000, that, if there is “any slip,” the commuter inventory “balance 
will balloon.” 

       30.    In addition, following a number of production and accounting problems that arose 
at RAC as part of the year-end 1999 close, the subsidiary’s CEO stepped down from his 
executive position, and Raytheon’s CEO traveled to the subsidiary to make it clear that RAC 
personnel had to improve their processes to prevent similar issues from occurring in the future.  
Upon learning of the year-end closing issues at RAC, Caine immediately revoked the recent 
promotion and transfer of a senior RAC financial officer and directed him to return to RAC and 
help solve the problems there. 

       31.    Thereafter, in early 2000, RAC’s newly-installed CEO instructed his staff to 
critically examine the subsidiary’s operations, and RAC’s Deputy CFO took the lead role in 
identifying issues to be examined.  As part of this review, RAC personnel identified a potential 
$220 million exposure related to the commuter assets on and off the balance sheet.  This estimate 
was calculated by comparing “[p]rices which could be readily obtainable in today’s market” to 
commuter book values.  The market values used in the analysis were supplied by the lead 
commuter sales officials at RAC and averaged from $500,000 to $1 million below the commuter 
book values. 

       32.    During this time period, Caine commissioned a review of RAC’s commuter 
program by a separate audit firm and requested that Raytheon’s internal audit department also 
examine RAC’s commuter accounting.  In addition, as Caine was aware, Raytheon’s outside 
auditors were conducting extended procedures at RAC as part of the year-end audit process 
given the issues that had previously arisen at the subsidiary, and the potential $220 million 
commuter exposure was reviewed as part of this process as well.  However, based on overly 
optimistic internal analyses prepared by RAC executives, which indicated that no “event of 
impairment” had occurred, RAC’s commuter assets were not written down nor were RAC’s 
commuter reserves adequately increased at that time. 

       33.    In January 2000, Raytheon had issued an earnings advisory for the fourth quarter 
of 1999 and the full year 2000 because of aircraft production delays at RAC, a restatement due to 
RAC’s improper bill and hold accounting, higher interest expenses, a higher effective tax rate, 
and other unfavorable results in its defense and other businesses.  Following this announcement, 
Raytheon’s stock price fell approximately 17 percent in one day.  By March 2000, it was 
reported that Raytheon’s bond and credit ratings might be further downgraded “[i]f corrective 

                                               7

---------------------Page 8---------------------

actions do not lead to material long-term improvements in overall performance and its balance 
sheet, or if material new operating problems emerge….” 

              3.      Raytheon’s Improper Accounting and Disclosures in 1999 

       34.    Raytheon’s SEC filings for 1999 did not contain adequate disclosures of the 
negative and adverse trends, uncertainties, risks, and other information related to RAC’s 
commuter aircraft or the subsidiary’s commuter business. 

       35.    Although certain forward-looking statements in Raytheon’s third quarter 1999 
Form 10-Q, which was signed by Caine as the company’s CFO, did disclose that one of the 
fourteen “important factors that could cause actual results to differ” was “the impact of recourse 
obligations of Raytheon Aircraft [RAC] due to changes in the collateral value of financed 
aircraft,” these statements did not reference commuter aircraft by name or describe how the 
collateral value of these aircraft were particularly susceptible to negative changes due to the 
current and anticipated market conditions for these planes.  In addition, these and other 
statements in Raytheon’s third quarter 1999 Form 10-Q did not disclose that there were tens to 
hundreds of millions of dollars of “risk” associated with the company’s portfolio of commuter 
and general aviation receivables, as Caine and others at the company were aware at the time. 

       36.    While Raytheon’s 1999 Form 10-K did refer to “commuter valuation costs” as 
one of five factors affecting RAC’s “decline in operating income as a percent of sales in 1999,” 
this disclosure failed to provide adequate information concerning the known material and 
adverse risks, uncertainties, and trends posed by the commuters. 

       37.    In addition, the forward-looking statements in Raytheon’s 1999 Form 10-K stated 
that “the effect of market conditions, particularly as it affects the general aviation market, the 
impact of competing products and pricing, [and] the impact on recourse obligations of RAC due 
to changes in the collateral value of financed aircraft” were among the many “factors that could 
cause actual results to differ,” but did not mention “commuter” aircraft by name or provide 
adequate information about the negative trends, uncertainties, and risks concerning the 
commuters that were known to management at the time.  Likewise, another set of forward-
looking statements in Raytheon’s 1999 Form 10-K stated that “continued market acceptance of, 
and government regulations affecting, 19-seat turboprop commuter aircraft” could affect RAC’s 
future results of operations, but Raytheon did not disclose the significant information that it had 
about the declining commuter market and the exposures facing the company. 

       38.    These forward-looking statements were also inconsistent with disclosures in the 
footnotes to the company’s 1999 financial statements, which misleadingly stated that “the 
Company does not expect to incur any material losses against the net book value of the long-term 
receivables” because “it is the Company’s policy to have the aircraft serve as collateral for the 
commuter airline receivables;” that “any liability arising from these transactions will not have a 
material effect on the Company’s financial position, liquidity, or results of operations” given 
Raytheon’s experience to date with resale activities and pricing and the Company’s plan to 
continue production into the foreseeable future; and that “[t]hese financial instruments are 
recorded at estimated fair value.  No material gain or loss resulted from the sales of receivables.”  
As certain members of Raytheon management were aware, the fair value of the commuter 

                                               8

---------------------Page 9---------------------

aircraft serving as collateral for the corresponding receivables was declining given the 
deteriorating market conditions for these planes.  Yet, the company was not adequately 
increasing its reserves for these anticipated short falls, causing significant potential future 
liability under its recourse provisions to the revolving credit facility.  At the time, Caine 
considered the off-balance sheet portfolio of commuter receivables to be performing from an 
accounting standpoint since the ongoing substitutions of new or restructured notes for any 
troubled receivables avoided actual defaults under the facility. 

       39.    In addition, contrary to the company’s footnote disclosures, during 1999, RAC 
continued an incorrect practice of using FAS 125 gains on commuter receivables sold into the 
credit facility to set up equally off-setting commuter loss reserves.  As a result, Raytheon’s 
reported financial statements did not accurately reflect the accounting impact of declining 
commuter values. 

       40.    For example, in the third quarter of 1999, RAC increased its “cushion” for 
commuter losses by roughly $11 million given the improper FAS 125 gains it recognized on the 
sale of commuter receivables into the credit facility.  RAC, however, subsequently reduced that 
increase by roughly $7 million in the fourth quarter of 1999 that offset a significant FAS 125 loss 
caused by a reduction in Raytheon’s credit rating.  These adjustments represented approximately 
17 and 19 percent of the subsidiary’s reported operating income/loss in the third and fourth 
quarters of 1999, respectively. 

       41.    Also, during 1999, RAC still had not properly applied FAS 125 to its off-balance 
sheet commuter receivables.  As a result, RAC’s reported annual operating income should have 
been reduced by at least $21 million (13 percent) at year-end. 

              4.      In 2000, the Commuter Market Continued to Deteriorate 

       42.    In 2000, a variety of internal and external sources continued to inform Raytheon 
and RAC executives that the market for 1900s was in substantial decline.  These sources further 
indicated that there were actual material commuter losses at RAC and that the potential losses 
associated with the 1900 line were in the hundreds of millions of dollars. 

       43.    In January 2000, Caine and other senior Raytheon and RAC officers were 
informed that the company’s strategic planning department viewed RAC as having a substantial 
negative “economic value added,” an internal business metric, due in large part to $240 million 
in negative value and exposure associated with RAC’s off-balance sheet commuter and general 
aviation receivables. 

       44.    In February 2000, the same outside consultant that conducted the April 1999 
external study reported to Raytheon executives that there would be “[c]ontinued downward 
pressure on turboprop lease rates due to falling demand for new units and a growing supply of 
used capacity” and that “demand for new [commuters] will average 7 to 12 sales annually,” well 
below what RAC was planning to manufacture that year.  RAC, however, had exceeded the 
consultant’s sales predictions in the prior year due in part to its continued willingness to accept 
trade-ins of used commuters for the latest model (1900Ds). 

                                               9

---------------------Page 10---------------------

       45.    In March 2000, auditors with a major public accounting firm that had been 
retained to perform a review of RAC’s “used commuter program exposures” informed Caine and 
other members of senior Raytheon and RAC management that “the Company’s largest exposure 
in the [commuter] portfolio is with potential returned aircraft” and that “the book values of 
certain aircraft in the portfolio exceed the current market values.”  In particular, these auditors 
identified a $115 million “shortfall” associated with RAC’s 1900Cs that were on and off the 
balance sheet, assuming a strategy of selling the aircraft for cash at their fair market value.  The 
auditors also noted that RAC personnel were “rejecting cash offers on commuter aircraft because 
of the income statement repercussions . . . [implying that] the carrying amounts of commuter 
airplanes exceed their fair market values.”  The auditors further noted that RAC only wrote down 
used commuter asset values “when the Company enters into a new finance/lease transaction.”  
The auditors also reported that RAC lacked formal and documented policies and practices 
concerning the accounting for commuter aircraft, commuter loan restructurings, the creation of 
commuter valuation reserves, and the monitoring of customer accounts and collections. 

       46.    In April 2000, in response to Caine’s request, Raytheon’s internal audit 
department prepared a report for Caine and other members of senior Raytheon and RAC 
management that examined the items identified as part of the year-end closing process, as set 
forth in Paragraph No. 31 above.  Caine received a copy of the report’s executive summary and 
certain attachments, which among other things stated that, although there was “[n]o event of 
impairment prior to 12/31/99” regarding the commuters, there was an “[u]ndetermined but likely 
to be significant” exposure related to these assets.  The attachments to the executive summary 
also stated that there was another “undetermined” exposure associated with the subsidiary’s 
commuter bad debt reserve, that the “[n]on-performing segment of [the] portfolio is increasing,” 
and that there was “no formal collections process for non-performing customers” at RAC. 

       47.    Between April and July 2000, in connection with the company’s efforts to sell 
RAC and/or its portfolio of commuter financing receivables, Raytheon’s outside investment 
bankers provided certain members of senior management with a series of valuation analyses for 
the commuter receivables.  A July 2000 analysis indicated that a sale of RACC’s portfolio of 
commuter receivables might generate losses of between $63 million and $622 million, depending 
on the underlying assumptions, and that the value of discounted cash flows on the portfolio was 
between $200 million and $273 million lower than the total loan balances, depending upon the 
underlying interest rate assumptions.  Caine received a copy of this report. 

       48.    Underlying the investment banker’s analysis was a July 2000 report from the 
same major public accounting firm that had previously analyzed RAC’s “used commuter 
program exposures.”  This report highlighted significant problems related to the commuters, 
including high levels of delinquencies and repossessions and “between $10 million and $200 
million of collateral exposure” that was not reflected by RAC’s accounting and restructuring 
methodologies, such as the practice of recognizing losses only upon a new sale or lease of the 
aircraft instead of upon return or repossession.  Caine received versions of this report and was 
aware of its contents. 

       49.    Also, in the Summer of 2000, a senior RAC executive informed Caine and 
another senior Raytheon officer of his significant concern about a problem with the commuters 
in the “half a billion dollar” range based on his view of the number of idle aircraft that were then 

                                              10

---------------------Page 11---------------------

in inventory and the substantial number of commuter returns that were forecasted at year-end.  
Ultimately, this problem was addressed by transferring pension income to RAC to gradually 
build up commuter reserves. 

                      a.     The Undisclosed Surplus Pension Income 

       50.    In the third quarter of 2000, Caine approved the quarterly use of $14 million in 
surplus pension income at RAC on a going forward basis to increase commuter reserves.  This 
income was generated by an over-funded pension plan that had been retained by Raytheon after 
the divestiture of another business unit and merged with a RAC pension plan.  As a result, RAC 
recognized $14 million in surplus pension income each quarter on a going forward basis, which 
was generated by the over-funded pension plan. 

       51.    As Caine and others were aware, this surplus pension income was going to be 
used to fund “a general commuter reserve” at RAC, which would increase the company’s 
“ability to absorb losses” and “allow us to continue to sell more 1900Cs versus continuing to 
lease them.”  In November 2000, a senior corporate financial officer told senior RAC executives 
to “[a]nticipate that the $14M per quarter coming from the ‘over[-]funded pension income’ is 
available indefinitely.”  Thereafter, RAC personnel projected that they would continue to receive 
$14 million in pension-related income per quarter through at least 2004, which would enable the 
subsidiary to build up nearly $260 million in commuter reserves. 

       52.    However, the surplus pension-related income was not separately identified and 
disclosed in any of the company’s SEC filings because management viewed the amounts as 
immaterial.  In fact, $14 million represented 24 to 353 percent of RAC’s reported quarterly 
operating income/loss between the third quarter of 2000 and the second quarter of 2001 (which 
ranged from a $4 million operating loss to $59 million in reported operating income).  This 
income also eliminated the comparability of the segment’s current results with prior periods and 
represented 17 percent of RAC’s reported annual operating income in 2000.  In addition, 
Raytheon’s 2000 Form 10-K failed to disclose that, had the surplus pension income from the 
discontinued operation not been reclassified to RAC’s 2000 results, the RAC segment would 
have experienced a three-year decline in its reported annual operating income from $227 million 
in 1998, to $163 million in 1999, to $136 million in 2000. 

                      b.     The Improper “Pooling” of Commuter Aircraft 

       53.    In the fourth quarter of 2000, at the direction of a senior corporate financial 
officer and others, RAC personnel instituted an improper “pooling” analysis when testing RAC’s 
on-balance sheet commuter assets for impairment under FAS 121.  This approach pooled aircraft 
on an aggregate basis, not on a plane-by-plane basis as required by GAAP.  Although 
Raytheon’s outside auditors were informed of the approach, they did not agree with its use.  
Pooling further enabled $45.7 million in “cushions” associated with low-book-value aircraft to 
be used to off-set losses associated with higher-book-value aircraft.  These “benefits” were then 
used to lower the book values of its used 1900Bs and 1900Cs in small amounts at year-end 2000, 
and the company’s public filings contained no disclosure of the aircraft’s declining value. 

                                              11

---------------------Page 12---------------------

       54.    In addition, even though the company’s “pooling” analysis at year-end 2000 
suggested that RAC did not need reserves on the 1900s that were held for sale, Caine and others 
at the company kept $26.4 million in commuter reserves on RAC’s books and continued to use 
the $14 million in excess pension-related income at the subsidiary each quarter going forward to 
fund continued increases to a “general commuter reserve,” which indicated that the anticipated 
losses associated with the 1900s were greater than the current level of reserves that had been 
established at RAC. 

                      c.     The “Soft Landing” for the Commuters 

       55.    By late 2000, Caine and other senior Raytheon and RAC officers were aware that 
“[m]arket forces ha[d] created a non-performing asset problem” with the 1900s.  Specifically, 
contemporaneous internal company documents show that, at December 31, 2000, RAC’s 
inventory of used commuters had increased to over 100 airplanes due to an exceptionally high 
number of commuter returns and repossessions at year-end, and significant commuter returns 
were expected in the years ahead. 

       56.    During January 2001, in response to a perceived “market shift” concerning the 
commuters, RAC prepared a “1900 Business Plan” intended to “steer[] to a ‘soft landing’ in 4 
years” by (i) further reducing the build rate for new 1900Ds to one plane per month (the 
minimum production rate that the subsidiary could sustain without incurring an operating loss); 
(ii) moving away from RAC’s historic commuter financing and leasing strategies to instead “sell 
1900B[s and] 1900Cs for cash” at prices that were “well below” existing book values; and (iii) 
building up RAC’s commuter reserves by at least an additional $240 million through the 
continued use of surplus pension-related income to facilitate commuter sales. 

       57.    The “reduced cash sale prices” were approved by Caine and others in senior 
Raytheon management during January 2001, and the 1900 Business Plan projected that the 
revised “cash sale” values for the commuters would create at least $60 million in anticipated 
losses in 2001 alone.  These losses, however, would be charged against the reserves that were 
being built up at RAC through the use of surplus pension-related income and, thus, would not be 
reflected in Raytheon’s reported financial statements. 

       58.    Caine and others at the company were aware of the strategy to move to “cash 
sales,” including the effort to “maximiz[e] conversion of 1900Cs for cash” and use “gross 
margin generated by additional [commuter sales] to fund more sales.”  In January 2001, Caine 
further identified that one of his “goals” for the coming year was to sell “$180 million of 1900B 
and 1900C inventory, the proceeds of which will be used for debt reduction.”   

       59.    Consistent with the company’s new commuter business plan, by February 2001, 
RAC’s commuter sales force was instructed that “the operating lease program they had relied 
upon [in] the previous few years to place used commuters was gone….  In its place were new 
lower cash prices on 1900Cs and 1900Ds plus an emphasis on cargo sales.” 

                      d.     Raytheon’s Inadequate Disclosures in 2000 

       60.    In his introductory remarks during the company’s second quarter 2000 earnings 
call, which was held on July 20, 2000, Caine disclosed that Raytheon was “experiencing some 

                                              12

---------------------Page 13---------------------

pressure on pricing in the commuter line” and that “refurb[ishment] costs and remarketing costs 
on used commuters were also higher this year than they were in the same period a year ago.”  
When subsequently asked about this issue during the earnings call, Caine explained that “one of 
the risk factors that we are trying to keep our eyes on is the commuter market and that would 
include pricing in the commuter market, so we’re not trying to ring any alarm bells.  On the other 
hand, it…is one of the risk factors for Raytheon Aircraft.”  Caine, however, did not disclose 
relevant information that he possessed concerning the commuters during this call, including the 
plan to begin recording the reassigned pension income within the RAC segment for the purposes 
of building commuter reserves.   

       61.    During the company’s third quarter 2000 earnings call, which was held on 
October 19, 2000, Caine responded to certain questions concerning RAC’s commuter aircraft by 
disclosing that “we have made some adjustments to our planning for the year with regard to used 
aircraft and that’s part of what has hurt RAC cash flow this year to our plan, but those effects are 
baked into our outlook.”  Caine also disclosed that “[w]e admit that we’ve got a lot of work to do 
between now and the end of the year in order to place not only commuter but also some GA 
(general aviation) planes that would come back in to us on a trade-in basis, but we think we’ve 
captured that in our forecast.”  Caine, however, again did not disclose relevant information that 
he possessed concerning the commuters, including that, in the third quarter of 2000, he had 
approved the merger of the over-funded pension plan with a plan in the RAC segment in order to 
use the surplus pension income to establish a “general reserve” to “absorb losses” for the 
purposes of facilitating commuter sales at prices that were below book value. 

       62.    Similarly, Raytheon’s SEC filings for 2000 did not contain adequate disclosures 
of the negative, adverse, and material trends, uncertainties, risks, and other information described 
above related to RAC’s commuter operations and the subsidiary’s commuter line.  Raytheon’s 
SEC filings also did not disclose the $14 million in surplus pension income that was available to 
RAC each quarter on a going forward basis from the over-funded pension plan, or the improper 
testing of RAC’s on-balance sheet commuter assets on a “pooled” basis.  In addition, Raytheon’s 
2000 Form 10-K did not disclose the various elements of the “soft landing” plan for RAC’s 
commuter line, including the decision to emphasize cash sales at prices that were “well below” 
book values to address a perceived “market shift” in the commuter business. 

       63.    Although Raytheon’s Forms 10-Q for the second and third quarter of 2000 did 
cite “pricing pressure on commuter aircraft” as one of the factors affecting RAC’s operating 
income, these disclosures did not adequately describe the substantial negative information 
concerning the commuters that was known to management at the time.  While Raytheon’s third 
quarter 2000 Form 10-Q also disclosed that “a downturn in demand could have a material 
adverse effect on the company’s financial position or results of operations” and its 2000 Form 
10-K stated that the company would “continue to…watch for any indications of a downturn in 
demand for RAC’s aircraft,” these disclosures incorrectly suggested that management was not 
yet aware of any such downturn in the commuter aircraft market or its severity.   

       64.    In addition, while Raytheon’s SEC filings for 2000 contained disclosures 
concerning the effect of overall market conditions in the forward-looking statements, these 
disclosures did not provide adequate information concerning the deteriorating state of the 
commuter aircraft market and the negative effect that this decline was having on RAC and 

                                               13

---------------------Page 14---------------------

commuter asset values.  For example, Raytheon’s 2000 Form 10-K included the forward-looking 
statement that the company’s “operating results may vary significantly over time for a variety of 
reasons, many of which are outside of our control,” such as “the impact on recourse obligations 
at Raytheon Aircraft due to changes in the collateral value of financed aircraft…[and] general 
economic conditions, particularly the cyclical nature of the general aviation…market[] in which 
we participate.”  These disclosures made no mention of “commuter” aircraft by name and did not 
reflect that company management was aware of significant losses related to RAC’s commuter 
assets and anticipating that these losses would continue to grow in the future. 

       65.    Also, other forward-looking statements in the company’s annual report disclosed 
that some of the “[i]mportant factors that could cause actual results to differ” were “the effect of 
market conditions, particularly in relation to the general aviation and commuter aircraft markets; 
[and] the impact on recourse obligations of Raytheon Aircraft due to changes in the collateral 
values of financed aircraft, particularly commuter aircraft.”  These statements were contrary to 
other disclosures in the footnotes to the company’s 2000 financial statements, which 
misleadingly stated that the company had a secure line of commuter financing receivables, that 
any liability resulting from the sale of commuter receivables into the revolving credit facility 
“will not have a material effect on the Company's financial position, or results of operations” 
given Raytheon’s “experience to date with resale activities and pricing and the Company’s plan 
to continue production into the foreseeable future,” and that “[n]o material gain or loss resulted 
from the sales of receivables in 2000, 1999, or 1998.”  These disclosures did not reflect a move 
to cash sales of commuter aircraft at prices that were well below book value, a significant 
reduction in the 1900D build rate, actual material commuter losses at RAC, and potential losses 
associated with the 1900 line in the hundreds of millions of dollars. 

       66.    The footnotes to Raytheon's 2000 financial statements also disclosed that the 
company sold commuter receivables to a bank syndicate and other financial institutions with 
recourse against the company “at varying percentages, depending upon the character of the 
receivables sold.”  These footnotes further stated that the outstanding balance on those 
receivables was over $1.7 billion year-end 2000.  However, these footnotes did not disclose the 
high degree of recourse against the company on commuter receivables, which ranged up to 100 
percent, and also failed to adequately disclose the significant declines in the commuter market 
and the recent restructuring of several commuter receivables to keep them from defaulting. 

       67.    Caine reviewed and approved the inaccurate filings and disclosures described in 
Paragraph Nos. 60 to 66 above. 

                      e.     Raytheon’s Improper Accounting in 2000 

       68.    As described in Paragraph Nos. 50 to 52 above, the establishment of $56 million 
in additional commuter reserves through the transfer of surplus pension income to RAC between 
the third quarter of 2000 and the second quarter of 2001 was inconsistent with GAAP.  No 
adequate contemporaneous documentation supported the amount of these commuter loss 
provisions, and the amount reserved corresponded only to the amount of the surplus pension 
income available.  Caine and others were also aware of the surplus pension income and how it 
was used to increase commuter reserves. 

                                               14

---------------------Page 15---------------------

       69.    Although Raytheon’s outside auditors did review the use of the surplus pension 
income to establish additional commuter reserves at RAC, the auditors informed Caine and 
others in October 2000 that there was a “need to enhance documentation” on these reserves.  
According to Caine, he was advised that each quarterly reserve increase was supported by the 
appropriate accounting analysis.  However, Caine was never provided with any such analyses 
supporting the need for equal $14 million additions to the commuter reserve quarter after quarter. 

       70.    In 2000, Raytheon’s outside auditors also informed Caine and others that it was 
“not appropriate” to pool commuter aircraft when testing for impairment under FAS 121 because 
the planes “d[id] not represent a large pool of homogenous assets.”  The auditors, therefore, 
proposed a $12 million audit adjustment, which represented the supposed “benefit” that the 
company obtained through pooling.  With the knowledge of Raytheon’s auditors, this adjustment 
was not booked because the amount was considered to be immaterial to the company’s 
consolidated financial results.  Caine and others were aware of this decision.  The $12 million 
audit entry, however, represented approximately 7 percent of RAC’s reported operating income 
for 2000 and, thus, was material to the financial results reported for that segment. 

       71.    In 2000, Raytheon’s outside auditors further informed Caine and other senior 
Raytheon and RAC executives that RAC “ha[d] not appropriately accounted for the gain or loss 
on notes sold to [the revolving credit facility]” or properly measured other components of the 
FAS 125 calculation and, thus, offered to sell RAC an improved FAS 125 model.  After some 
initial “resistance” from a senior corporate financial officer and another senior RAC financial 
officer, the company did ultimately purchase and implement at the subsidiary the FAS 125 
model proposed by the auditors before filing the 2000 Form 10-K.  However, this model also 
failed to comply with GAAP.  Because much of the data serving as the inputs for this model was 
incomplete and inaccurate, the new FAS 125 model materially misestimated the amount of 
RAC’s various off-balance sheet assets and liabilities. 

       72.    Also, the new FAS 125 model calculated a $22 million overstatement related to 
prior period FAS 125 gains.  As Caine and others were aware, this proposed audit entry was not 
made because, among other reasons, it was deemed immaterial to the company’s consolidated 
financial results.  Such a charge, however, would have reduced RAC’s reported annual operating 
income for 2000 by 13 percent (from $164 million to $142 million) and, thus, was material to the 
segment. 

       73.    Together, the $12 million proposed audit adjustment for incorrect FAS 121 
accounting and the $22 million proposed audit adjustment for RAC’s incorrect FAS 125 
accounting would have reduced RAC’s reported operating income by 20 percent. 

       74.    Finally, had senior Raytheon and RAC management timely recognized losses 
inherent in the planned “soft landing” of the commuter aircraft line, the company would have 
been required to take a charge of at least $67 million at year-end 2000, and contemporaneous 
internal company documents and other information indicate that Caine and other senior 
Raytheon and RAC officers were expecting commuter losses of $240 million given the cash 
sales prices that had been approved in the “soft landing.”  A charge of $67 million to $240 
million at year-end 2000 would have reduced RAC’s reported annual operating income by at 
least 41 to 146 percent and Raytheon’s 2000 profit before taxes by at least 8 to 27 percent. 

                                              15

---------------------Page 16---------------------

       75.    Caine reviewed the accounting described in Paragraph Nos. 68 to 74 above, and 
he knew or should have known that it was inaccurate. 

              5. 	    In 2001, Caine Continued to Be Aware of the Ongoing Decline in the 
                      Commuter Market, and the Commuter Assets Were Written Down 
                      after September 11, 2001 

       76.    Throughout 2001, Caine and other senior Raytheon executives continued to be 
aware of the ongoing decline of the commuter market and how this decline was creating serious 
operational issues at RAC, including substantial actual and anticipated losses associated with the 
1900s on and off the company’s balance sheet. 

                      a. 	   The First Quarter of 2001 

       77.    In early 2001, Caine and others at Raytheon attempted to purchase risk insurance 
for the cash flows associated with the 1900D notes receivable in the company’s off-balance sheet 
commuter portfolio.  During these discussions, the insurer informed certain Raytheon and RAC 
executives that the $1.1 billion book value the 1900Ds, which RAC had financed and were off 
Raytheon’s balance sheet, was approximately 20 percent higher than a third-party’s evaluation of 
their current market value.  These executives subsequently briefed Caine on their discussions 
with the insurer as well as their conclusions and analyses of the situation.  Ultimately, Caine and 
others decided not to pursue an insurance strategy for the commuters since it was cost prohibitive 
given the amount of coverage provided. 

       78.    By April 2001, Caine and others at Raytheon were aware that RAC had not sold 
any used commuters for cash under the “soft landing” plan during the first quarter and that recent 
offers for used 1900Cs were “in the $1.2M range,” which was “far below” the initial “cash sale” 
estimates of $2.2 million approved by management as part of the “soft landing.”  Caine and 
others were further aware that “each cash order looks like it will require a great deal of focus and 
effort to get the ball over the goal line.  Simply put, it’s harder to sell for cash, but…we knew 
this ‘going in.’”  In response to this statement, one senior Raytheon executive explained that $1.5 
million was a “more realistic” price for these used aircraft and further emphasized the need to 
“raise cash” on these sales. 

                      b.     The First Quarter 2001 Earnings Call 

       79.    During the first quarter 2001 earnings call, which was held on April 19, 2001, 
Caine omitted reference to “commuter” aircraft from his introductory remarks, stating instead 
that “Raytheon Aircraft revenue is down $178 million, $154 million related to new aircraft 
deliveries and about $43 million related to a decline in used aircraft sales” and that, “[i]n 
Raytheon Aircraft, we see some weakness in Q-1 from a bookings standpoint….  [O]ur booking 
in the first quarter of this year were weak, relative to where we have been historically and also 
weak relative to our plan for the year.  The used aircraft market is also of concern to us and we 
will continue to watch the numbers of planes available on the used aircraft market as we move 
through the second and third quarters.  Our existing backlog, though, at Raytheon Aircraft is 
strong and appears to be stable.  We do have planes in forecast for sale in…Q-2, Q-3, and Q-4, 
which as of yet are unsold.  That is not unusual for us and we are watching carefully to see 

                                               16

---------------------Page 17---------------------

what’s happening in the market demand for both new and used aircraft and are going to be taking 
a close look at our planned production rates for the second, third, and fourth quarters as we move 
through the next 30 days.” 

       80.    In addition, in response to an analyst question concerning “the 1900D used 
aircraft model” and whether management had “seen weakening used aircraft prices there,” Caine 
stated that, “during the first quarter, we…had a stronger level of activity around both new and 
used 1900Ds that we might have planned for the year….  I don’t want you to take that to be too 
strong a positive signal, but…I would say that the 1900D was not a disappointment in the first 
quarter.”  Caine, however, did not disclose that, in January 2001, he and other senior Raytheon 
executives had approved a reduction of the build rate for new 1900Ds to one aircraft per month 
(the minimum line rate that RAC could sustain without incurring an operating loss).  Caine also 
did not disclose the January 2001 reduction in used 1900D sale prices by as much as $900,000 
below their average book value.  Caine further did not disclose the other elements of the “soft 
landing,” including the reduction in sales prices for used 1900Cs to roughly $1 million below 
their average book value and the continued quarterly use of $14 million in pension-related 
income at RAC for the purposes of building up commuter reserves to facilitate sales at these 
reduced prices.  At the time, $14 million represented over 14 percent of the company’s first 
quarter 2001 consolidated income from continuing operations of $97 million.   

       81.    In response to another question concerning the previously discussed “weakness in 
the new and used aircraft market,” Caine did state that “we have a number of airplanes in our 
outlook for Q-2, Q-3, Q-4 which, as of yet, are unsold…  [T]he percentage unsold as of today is 
probably a little higher than the percentage unsold was at this same time a year ago, and so we’re 
watching this carefully, and…we’re going to be taking a close look at our production rates over 
the course of the next 30 days.”  Caine, however, did not disclose that RAC had not sold any 
used commuters for cash under the “soft landing” plan during the first quarter of 2001 or that 
recent cash offers on used commuters were roughly $1 million below the previously approved 
“soft landing” prices, as he was informed on April 17, 2001 (two days before the first quarter 
2001 earnings call). 

                      c.     The Second Quarter of 2001 

       82.    In May 2001, Caine received an e-mail, which indicated that a senior corporate 
financial officer disapproved of the sale of $200 million in commuter receivables to an outside 
party since it would occur at a $20 million (10 percent) discount.  Even though this senior 
corporate financial officer was informed that RAC’s “surplus” pension-related reserves could be 
used to off set this loss, he explained that “we need to understand what a 10% loss on the $200M 
RACC portfolio sale does to our collateral value on the rest of the portfolio.  Any use of $20M of 
pension reserves will severely limit our ability to sell on-balance sheet aircraft for cash.” 

       83.    In June 2001, a RAC sales forecast informed Caine and others that “[a] clear trend 
exists that prices will have to continue to be lowered to move inventory….  In order to get more 
cash sales in Q4, the price will have to be lowered to between $1.1 - $1.5 MM.  This could create 
accounting issues.”   Caine and others subsequently received an e-mail from a senior executive in 
RAC’s commuter business, which stated that it would be necessary to “discount heavily” and 
offer 1900Cs at between $1.1 million to $1.5 million in order to make sales for cash.  These 

                                               17

---------------------Page 18---------------------

officers were further informed that RAC’s 2001 sales forecast was “contingent” upon these 
values. 

       84.    As Caine was aware, these transactions were subsequently blocked by a senior 
corporate financial officer and others in the financial organization because “these deals could 
cause a write down of the entire portfolio and, as a result, we need to sell the airplanes at a higher 
value.”  As set forth in internal company documents, “[w]e cannot afford to change NRVs [the 
Net Realizable Values of the aircraft] below $2,500,000” due to the income statement 
repercussions for the company.  “Price integrity issues and limited reserves prevent us from 
lowering prices to meet a large portion of the market.  Market pricing will require additional 
reserves.” 

       85.    In July 2001, at Caine’s request, the company’s investment bankers provided 
Raytheon management with an update of earlier analyses of the company’s commuter portfolio.  
This analysis indicated that, at the close of the second quarter, there was at least $113 million to 
$198 million in losses associated with the on- and off-balance sheet commuters given the 
difference between their book and assumed collateral values.  This analysis also indicated that 
the value of the discounted cash flows from the on- and off-balance sheet commuters were $431 
million to $528 million below their total book values.  Caine received a copy of this report. 

                      d.     The Second Quarter 2001 Earnings Call 

       86.    During the second quarter 2001 earnings call, which occurred on July 19, 2001, 
Caine stated that “we also had considerably fewer commuter aircraft shipped this year relative to 
last year” and the “[n]umber of used aircraft sales was down considerably.”  Caine also stated 
that inventory levels at RAC had increased and were, among other things, “a function of our 
ability to remarket used commuter aircraft…in a tougher environment for used aircraft.”  Caine 
further presented a slide that disclosed the historical and forecasted inventory levels of commuter 
aircraft at RAC from June 2000 through December 2001.   

       87.    In response to an analyst question concerning Raytheon’s off-balance sheet 
obligations, Caine stated that, “[o]n the commuter side…we watch the performance of those 
assets and the liquidity and credit quality of our customers very closely.  We have reserves… 
against the assets in the portfolio in the aggregate and in some cases we apply specific reserves 
to specific transactions if we have concerns about an individual credit or an individual asset.  We 
review all of that regularly….  [T]he analysis that we have done with regard to the aging of the 
receivables and the risks associated with some of the receivables, particularly in commuter, has 
probably heightened our sensitivity relative to where we might have been a year ago.  I would 
say that aging has gotten to be a little older.  We have more receivables that are, say, 90-plus 
days past due today than we did a year ago or two years ago.  That’s always a concern.  That’s 
not necessarily a problem, but it is certainly a concern and it’s one that we manage actively.  I 
would also tell you that our reserve levels in the portfolio are higher today than they were a year 
ago and we add to those reserves periodically, as required.”   

       88.    However, Caine did not disclose that members of senior Raytheon and RAC 
management had been restructuring the payment arrangements of several major commuter 
customers to keep them from defaulting on their notes payable and, thus, triggering Raytheon’s 

                                               18

---------------------Page 19---------------------

recourse obligations to the credit facility.  Caine also did not disclose that, by the second quarter 
of 2001, $56 million in pension-related income had been used at RAC to increase commuter 
reserves (including $28 million in the first half of 2001, which represented 13 percent of the 
company’s consolidated income from continuing operations for the six months ended July 1, 
2001).  Furthermore, as set forth in Paragraph No. 68, the way in which these additional 
commuter reserves were established through the use of pension-related income did not comply 
with GAAP. 

       89.    In addition, in response to a follow-up question by another analyst, Caine stated 
that the increases in the commuter reserves at RAC would be reflected in the segment’s reported 
“operating income.”  However, as Caine was aware, these reserves were being established 
through the undisclosed use of $14 million in pension-related income each quarter, which also 
occurred “above the line.”  As such, Raytheon’s financial statements did not accurately reflect 
the negative impact that these commuter reserves were having on RAC’s reported operating 
income. 

       90.    Furthermore, one week before the July 2001 earnings call, Caine received an 
analysis from Raytheon’s investment bankers, which indicated that there was upwards of $198 
million in losses associated with the on- and off-balance sheet commuters at the close of the 
second quarter given the difference between their book and collateral values and that the value of 
the discounted cash flows from the on- and off-balance sheet commuter receivables were as 
much as $528 million below their total book values.  And, one day before this call, Caine was 
informed that (i) the market price for future fleet sales of used 1900Cs was between $1.1 million 
and $1.5 million per plane and (ii) senior executives in his finance department were blocking 
these transactions because they “could cause a write down of the entire portfolio and, as a result, 
we need to sell the airplanes at a higher value.”  Caine, however, did not disclose this 
information during the July 2001 earnings call. 

                      e.     The August 2001 Commuter Summit 

       91.    In August 2001, Raytheon convened a “commuter summit” at its corporate 
headquarters to discuss the state of the commuter market and the negative effect this decline was 
having on RAC’s commuter business.  At this meeting, an outside consultant informed Caine and 
others in senior Raytheon and RAC management that “[c]ompetitive market pressures are 
intense.  Critically, they are not anticipated to ease anytime soon….  Turboprop aircraft orders 
have stagnated at best….  Only a handful of companies still operate 19-seat turboprops….  The 
prognosis for U.S. 19-seat operators is not very good….  Downward pricing pressure is not 
anticipated to ease as the number of surplus 20 to 35 seat turboprop aircraft grows, making them 
more attractive as 19-seat replacements….  With turboprop aircraft demand falling and supply 
raising, pricing must reflect basic market conditions not internal benchmarks.”  

       92.    At this “commuter summit,” another outside consultant reported that estimates of 
fair market value for the commuters were, on average, $2 million below book value for the 
1900Cs and $1.3 million below book value for the 1900Ds.  At the time, the company had over 
130 1900Cs and nearly 320 1900Ds on and off the balance sheet, making for an estimated 
exposure of approximately $676 million. 

                                              19

---------------------Page 20---------------------

                      f.     The First and Second Quarter 2001 Forms 10-Q 

       93.    Despite the substantial information that management possessed concerning the 
decline in RAC’s commuter aircraft business and the erosion of commuter asset values, the 
company’s first quarter 2001 Form 10-Q did not adequately disclose these adverse views of and 
developments in RAC’s commuter operations, including management’s decision to move from a 
leasing to a cash sales strategy for used commuters. 

       94.    For example, although this filing did state that, “[d]uring the first quarter of 2001, 
RAC experienced softness in orders for new and used commercial aircraft,” that Raytheon 
“remains concerned about the market outlook at RAC,” and that “[w]eak demand for RAC’s new 
or used aircraft could have a material adverse effect on RAC’s financial position and results of 
operations,” these disclosures discussed only “commercial” aircraft in general, which covered 
several other product lines in addition to the commuters.  Because these and other disclosures 
covered all of RAC’s “new and used” commercial aircraft, the company’s filing did not make 
adequate disclosure of the negative risks and trends related to the commuters that were known to 
senior management at the time. 

       95.    Raytheon’s second quarter 2001 Form 10-Q, which was filed one week after the 
August 2001 commuter summit, also did not adequately disclose the negative risks and trends 
associated with the company’s commuter aircraft.  For example, Raytheon’s Form 10-Q 
disclosed that RAC’s second quarter 2001 “[o]perating income was down primarily due to the 
lower sales volume and margin pressure on T-6A, Beechjet, and used aircraft due to the current 
market environment.  During 2001, RAC experienced softness in orders for new and used 
commercial aircraft.  The Company remains concerned about the market outlook at RAC.  
During the second quarter of 2001, RAC responded to a softening market by announcing 
workforce reductions and adjustments in production rates.”  These disclosures made no specific 
mention of “commuter” aircraft and failed to adequately disclose the negative risks and trends 
concerning the commuters that were known to senior management at the time.  

       96.    The only disclosure specifically referencing “commuters” in the Management 
Discussion and Analysis section of Raytheon’s second quarter 2001 filing concerned “[t]he aging 
on RAC’s commuter customer financing receivables [which] has deteriorated over the past year.  
Non-performance on these loans and leases, in the aggregate, could have a material adverse 
effect on the Company’s liquidity.”  At this time, senior Raytheon officers had been informed 
that there were hundreds of millions of dollars of actual and potential losses associated with 
these receivables based on the analyses that the company’s investment bankers had performed 
and the other information the company had received.  Thus, Raytheon’s Form 10-Q failed to 
adequately disclose the significant declines in the commuter market, recent restructuring of 
several commuter customers to keep them from defaulting on their notes payable, and the 
substantial financial repercussions that would follow given the company’s recourse obligations 
to the bank facility. 

       97.    Also, both of Raytheon’s first and second quarter 2001 filings contained 
inadequate disclosures about the potential effect of market conditions in their forward-looking 
statements.  In particular, both Forms 10-Q stated that of the many “[i]mportant factors that 
could cause actual results to differ” were “the effect of market conditions, particularly in relation 

                                              20

---------------------Page 21---------------------

to the general aviation and commuter aircraft markets; [and] the impact of recourse obligations 
of Raytheon Aircraft due to changes in the collateral values of financed aircraft, particularly 
commuter aircraft.”  These disclosures, however, failed to provide investors with sufficient 
information concerning the negative trends and risks associated with the commuters that were 
known by management at the time.  The inclusion of these disclosures in the company’s forward-
looking statements gave the inaccurate impression that Raytheon was not presently facing any 
risks associated with its on- and off-balance sheet commuter assets during these time periods. 

                      g. 	   Raytheon’s Equity Offering 

       98.    In April and May 2001, Raytheon filed a Form S-3 and prospectus supplements in 
connection with its $3 billion shelf registration and takedown of equity securities.  These filings 
contained materially misleading statements and omissions concerning the commuters because: 

              (a)     Raytheon’s Form S-3 incorporated prior filings by reference and thus 
       repeated the false and misleading statements from those periodic reports.  In addition, the 
       Form S-3 did not disclose the material and adverse trends and uncertainties that were 
       known to management at the time concerning the commuters.  The Form S-3 also 
       incorporated by reference “any future filings made by us…until we sell all of the 
       securities.”  As alleged below, these future filings were also misleading. 

              (b)     In addition, the forward-looking statements of the Form S-3 contained 
       disclosures about “regional aircraft” and “price pressures within the market” but did not 
       specifically reference commuters by name.  Similarly, these forward-looking statements 
       disclosed that “a decline in demand in the market for our aircraft, would have an adverse 
       effect, which may be material, on our financial results,” but did not describe the declining 
       commuter market or RAC’s deteriorating commuter business.  Likewise, other forward-
       looking statements disclosed that “[t]he value of our securities may fluctuate as a result of 
       considerations that are difficult to forecast, such as…the impact on recourse obligations 
       at Raytheon Aircraft Company due to changes in the collateral value of financed 
       aircraft…and general economic conditions, particularly the cyclical nature of the general 
       aviation and other commercial markets in which we participate.”  These forward-looking 
       statements, however, did not specifically mention the known risks posed by the 
       deteriorating state of the commuter market, RAC’s growing inventory of used commuter 
       aircraft, or the over-valued commuter financing receivables that were off the company’s 
       balance sheet. 

       99.    Caine reviewed and approved the inaccurate filings and disclosures described in 
Paragraph Nos. 93 to 98 above. 

                      h. 	   Raytheon’s Improper Accounting and Disclosures in the Third 
                             Quarter of 2001 and at Year-End 

       100.   Although Raytheon’s on- and off-balance sheet commuter assets were over-
valued by hundreds of millions of dollars as of August 31, 2001, it was not until after the terrorist 
attacks on September 11th that management began the process of a write down.  However, much 
of the information used to estimate fair value for the commuters was from three or four weeks 

                                               21

---------------------Page 22---------------------

earlier in August of 2001, and none of the publicly available data used in the write-down analysis 
was post-September 11th.  Caine and another senior corporate financial officer also considered 
offers that RAC had received from commuter customers during the most recent year, even 
though these officers had previously refused to sell planes for these prices in July 2001 since 
“these deals could cause a write down of the entire portfolio….”  Also, a post-September 11th 
“top down, market study” upon which a senior Raytheon officer and Caine relied to support the 
final charge estimated that there was $400 million to $500 million in pre-existing exposure on 
the commuters as of July 2001.  This amount represented roughly 60 to 70 percent of the $693 
million charge that was ultimately taken by the company.  As the Vice President of Investor 
Relations informed senior management near completion of the write down, a survey of buy- and 
sell-side analysts prior to the upcoming earnings call indicated that “defense companies get a free 
pass this quarter” given recent events.  These analysts were further “expecting a $400-500 
million charge” on the commuters, and they would be “irritated” with the company “if we do not 
take this opportunity to adjust these values.” 

       101.   Thus, in the third quarter of 2001, Raytheon stated that it had taken a $693 million 
loss provision related to RAC’s commuter aircraft as “a result of continued weakness in the 
commuter aircraft market and the impact of the events of September 11, 2001.”  This misleading 
statement was repeated in substance in the company’s 2001 Form 10-K.  Given the charge that 
the company should have taken at year-end 2000 to properly account for RAC’s on- and off-
balance sheet commuter assets and the $240 million in commuter reserves that company 
management planned to build to cover anticipated losses, the $693 million commuter loss 
provision that Raytheon took in the third quarter of 2001 was materially overstated by at least 10 
to 53 percent. 

       102.   Raytheon’s SEC filings also did not disclose that the third quarter 2001 commuter 
loss provision was largely determined by implementing for the first time a market-based measure 
of portfolio loss under FAS 140, the successor to FAS 125.  Contrary to Raytheon’s prior public 
disclosures, the company’s recourse liability obligations on the commuter receivables sold into 
the credit facility had previously been calculated through a pooled, probable loss analysis. 

       103.   Caine reviewed and approved the inaccurate filings and disclosures described in 
Paragraph Nos. 101 to 102 above.  Caine further reviewed the accounting described in Paragraph 
Nos. 101 to 102 above, and he knew or should have known that it was inaccurate. 

       E. 	   THE IMPACT OF THE IMPROPER ACCOUNTING AND DISCLOSURE 
              PRACTICES 

       104.   As a result of the improper disclosure and accounting practices described above, 
Raytheon filed at least nine quarterly reports, three annual reports, and two registration 
statements that contained materially false and misleading disclosures and financial statements. 

       F. 	   LEGAL ANALYSIS 

       105.   Section 17(a)(2) of the Securities Act prohibits a person from obtaining money or 
property by means of any untrue statement of a material fact or any misleading omission of 
material fact in the offer or sale of securities.  See 15 U.S.C. § 77q(a)(2).  Section 17(a)(3) of the 

                                              22

---------------------Page 23---------------------

Securities Act prohibits a person from engaging in any transaction, practice, or course of 
business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon the purchaser in the offer or 
sale of securities.  See 15 U.S.C. § 77q(a)(3).  Information is material where there is a substantial 
likelihood that a reasonable investor would consider the information important in making an 
investment decision.  See Basic Inc. v. Levinson, 485 U.S. 224, 231-32 (1988).  Establishing a 
violation of Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) does not require a showing of scienter.  See Aaron v. SEC, 
446 U.S. 680, 701-02 (1980). 

       106.   Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 
require issuers with securities registered under Section 12 to file annual, quarterly, and other 
reports with the Commission.  The obligation to file such reports embodies the requirement that 
they be true and correct.  See, e.g., SEC v. Savoy Indus., Inc., 587 F.2d 1149, 1165 (D.C. Cir. 
1978), cert. denied, 440 U.S. 913 (1979).  Rule 12b-20 further requires the inclusion of any 
additional material information that is necessary to make required statements, in light of the 
circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  Information regarding the financial 
condition of a company is presumptively material.  SEC v. Blavin, 760 F.2d 706, 711 (6th Cir. 
1985).  No showing of scienter is necessary to establish a violation of Section 13(a) or Rules 
12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13.  See, e.g., Savoy, 587 F.2d at 1167.  Additionally, Item 303 of 
Regulation S-K requires registrants to disclose “any known trends or uncertainties that have had 
or that the registrant reasonably expects will have a material … unfavorable impact on net sales 
or revenues or income from continuing operations.”  17 C.F.R. § 229.303(a)(3)(ii).  The failure 
to comply with Regulation S-K constitutes a violation of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. 

       107.   Caine violated Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act and caused certain 
of Raytheon’s violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as well as Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 
and 13a-13 thereunder, through conduct in 2000 and 2001.  As described above, as Raytheon’s 
CFO, Caine (i) failed to make or ensure full, accurate, and adequate disclosure of the known 
trends and uncertainties associated with the company’s commuter line in Raytheon’s public 
filings for 2000 and 2001, such as the deteriorating state of RAC’s commuter business and the 
various means that the company was using to address this problem; (ii) failed to ensure that 
Raytheon properly accounted for the resulting commuter losses that were known and anticipated 
by management during 2000 and 2001, which led to material misstatements of the company’s 
reported results on both a segment and a consolidated basis; and (iii) through such conduct, 
caused Raytheon’s filing of at least six quarterly reports, two annual reports on Forms 10-Q and 
10-K, and two sets of registration statements and prospectus supplements for May 2001 and 
October 2001 offerings that contained inadequate disclosures and inaccurate financial 
statements.   

       108.   Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires Section 12 registrants to make 
and keep books, records and accounts that accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of their assets.  Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires such registrants to 
devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable 
assurances that, among other things, transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation 
of financial statements in conformity with GAAP and to maintain the accountability of assets.  
Rule 13b2-1 prohibits the falsification of any book, record, or account subject to Section 
13(b)(2)(A).  No showing of scienter is necessary to establish violations of these provisions.  See 
SEC v. McNulty, No. 94 CIV. 7114 (MBM), 1996 WL 422259, at *7 (S.D.N.Y. July 29, 1996). 

                                               23

---------------------Page 24---------------------

       109.   Caine caused certain of Raytheon’s violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder.  As described above, during 2000 
and 2001, he failed to ensure that the company’s commuter assets and liabilities were properly 
recorded in the company’s books and records.  He also failed to ensure that Raytheon designed 
and maintained an adequate system of internal controls to ensure that the company properly 
measured its commuter assets and liabilities.   

       110.   Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Caine violated Sections 
17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act, and caused certain of Raytheon’s violations of Sections 
13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act as well as Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-13 
and 13b2-1 thereunder. 

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that Respondent Caine cease and desist from 
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the 
Securities Act and Rule 13b2-1 under the Exchange Act and from causing any violations and any 
future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-
20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder. 

       By the Commission. 

       N                                             ancy M. Morris
                                             Secretary 

                                              24

