---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                       Before the 

                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 8855 / September 28, 2007 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 56576 / September 28, 2007 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2736 / September 28, 2007 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12857 

                                        :
                                        : 
In the Matter of                        :      ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                        :      ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-AND- 
ROBERT D. DOTY, JR.,                    :      DESIST PROCEEDINGS, MAKING 
                                        :      FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                        :      REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A 
                                        :      CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
                                        :      PURSUANT TO SECTION 8A 
                                        :      OF THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, 
Respondent                              :      SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                        :      EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AND RULE 
                                        :      102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES 
                                        :      OF PRACTICE 
                                        : 

                                           I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC” or “Commission”) deems it appropriate 
that (i) cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the 
Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) and S ection 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (the “Exchange Act”) against Robert D. Dot y, Jr. (“Doty”) ( “Respondent”), and (ii) public 
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Doty pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.1 

1 
      Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that:  The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, 
the privilege of appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have willfully violated, or willfully 
aided and abetted the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer of 
Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of 
these proceedings and any other proceedings br ought by or on behalf of the Com mission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to 
the Commission’s jurisdiction over Respondent and the subject matter of these proceedings, which 
are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative and 
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-
and-Desist Order Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, and Rule 102(e) of the Co mmission’s Rules of Practice (“Order”), as set 
forth below. 
                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds2
                                                                              that: 

       A.     RESPONDENT 

       Robert D. Doty, Jr., 49, of Houston, Texas, was Dynegy Inc.’s (“Dynegy”) Executive Vice-
President and Chief Financial Officer during the relevant period.  Doty joined Dynegy in 1991 after 
ten years as a tax practitioner in a public accounting firm and advanced through Dynegy’s tax and 
finance departments before ascending to CFO in  2000.   Doty permitted his CPA license to lapse 
after joining Dynegy and is no longer a CPA.  Doty resigned from Dynegy in August 2002 and is 
now employed by a private company.   

       B.     OTHER RELEVANT ENTITY 

       Dynegy is an Illinois corporation headquartered  in Houston, Texas.   Dynegy’s shares are 
registered with the Commission under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and trade on the New 
York Stock Exchange under the sym bol DYN.   During the relevant period, Dynegy’s business 
consisted of production and delivery of energy, including natural gas, electricity, natural gas liquids 
and coal, to customers in North America, the United Kingdom and Continental Europe.  In addition 
to energy production and delivery, energy tradi ng was a key com ponent of Dynegy’s business 
during the relevant period. 

       C.     FACTS 

              1.      Summary 

       These proceedings arise out of Respondent’s role in Dynegy’s m aterially misleading use 
of a structured-finance transaction calle  d Project Alpha (“Al    pha”).    In 2001, Dynegy 

2 
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer and are not binding on any other person or entity 
in this or any other proceedings. 

                                               2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

implemented Alpha to enhance cash flow from  operations by approximately $300 million and to 
realize an associated tax benefit of $79 m    illion.   Over approxim ately six m onths, Dynegy’s 
accounting and tax adviser worked closely with        the Respondent and other m      embers of the 
Dynegy deal team to structure Alpha in a m anner consistent with generally accepted accounting 
principles (“GAAP”). In particular, the accounti ng and tax adviser warned Dynegy that certain 
forms of risk-hedging in the transaction w  ould undermine Dynegy’s intended accounting for 
Alpha and require Dynegy to record the cash flow from Alpha as a financing activity, rather than 
as cash from  operations.   Dynegy’s failure to follow this advice would also elim  inate the tax 
benefit. 

       In April 2002, it becam e clear that Alpha did  not conform to the explicit guidelines that 
Dynegy’s accounting and tax adviser had established.   As a result, Dynegy’s accounting and tax 
adviser withdrew its opinion letters previously  issued regarding Alpha, and in Novem ber 2002, 
Dynegy restated its 2001 financial statements to eliminate $290 million, or 37%, of operating cash 
flow, and to eliminate the previously reported tax savings of $79 m illion, reducing Dynegy’s net 
income by 12%. 

               2.      Project Alpha Overview 

       Alpha was essentially a $300 m illion loan to  Dynegy, disguised as cash from operations 
through the purchase and sale of natural gas. Dynegy received loan proceeds in 2001 in the form of 
contractually assured natural gas trading profits. The loan was to be repaid over Alpha’s remaining 
term through contractually assured trading losses. 3
                                                      While structured as a complex sale of natural 
gas, Alpha had no business purpose aside from minimizing Dynegy’s taxes and narrowing the gap 
between Dynegy’s net income and operating cash flow.   

       For Dynegy to report Alpha’s cash flow as de riving from operating activity, rather than a 
loan, Dynegy’s outside accounting and tax adviser required that Alpha exhibit characteristics of a 
commercial transaction.   For instance, Dynegy a nd ABG Supply (the parties to the gas supply 
contract) were required to bear som e amount of risk.   To assure that such risk was present, the 
purchase price under the gas contract was partly fixed, exposing the buyer and seller to fluctuations 
in the market price of natural gas.4 

3 
       More specifically, in the initial nine months of Alpha’s five-year term, a Dynegy affiliate purchased gas from a 
Dynegy-sponsored SPE, ABG Supply, at below-market prices and then sold the gas in the market for a $300 m illion 
profit.  Dynegy is repaying the loan, with interest, over the remaining four years and three months, by purchasing gas 
from ABG Supply at above-market prices.   The losses generated by this non-commercial pricing structure were the 
source of Alpha’s tax benefit; Dynegy used the losses in 2001 as an offset against its taxable income, giving rise to a $79 
million increase in Dynegy’s net income. 
4 
       The purchase price is 86% variable and 14% fixed.  In Alpha’s first nine months, the 86% variable component 
was  at  market  price, minus a pre-determ ined discount (i.e., NYMEX settlem ent pri ce less a Base Period Price 
Adjustment).   Over Alpha’s remaining 51 m onths, the 86% vari able component was at  market prices, plus a  pre-
determined premium (i.e., NYMEX settlement price plus a Term  Period Price Adjustment).   For all 6 0 months, the 
remaining 14% was at a fixed price. 

                                                  3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

        The parties to the gas contract planned to hedge this commodity price risk by entering into 
certain derivatives – fixed-for-floating swaps – to substitute the market price of natural gas for the 
fixed price.  Similarly, the parties planned to hedge against fluctuating interest rates by executing 
interest rate swaps.  Such hedging was necessary to guarantee the lenders’ return.   Although the 
reduction of risk was acceptable to a point, Dynegy’s accounting and tax adviser warned that certain 
hedging activities would invalidate Alpha’s accounting benefits. 

                3.      Issues Relating to Hedging 

        Dynegy’s accounting and tax adviser notified  Dynegy that, for Alpha to qualify for the 
desired accounting treatment, Alpha’s commodity price swaps and interest rate swaps (and other 
derivatives) would have to be conducted in the or  dinary course of business.   Specifically, the 
swaps could not be linked to the gas contract or  to each other.  Any provision in one swap, such 
as a default provision, that would also have an       effect on another swap, such as triggering an 
automatic term ination or a right of term      ination, would require Dynegy   to treat Alpha as a 
financing.5
             Contrary to this advice, Dynegy entered into com          modity price and interest rate 
swaps with contractual linkage in the f        orm  of cross-term ination or “tear-up” provisions.       6 
Moreover, the im permissible tear-up provisions were docum ented in am endments to the swap 
confirmations, executed simultaneously with the confirmations they purported to amend. 

        The equity investors in ABG Supply and th          e other Alpha SPEs were required to be 
independent of Dynegy and contribute at least 3% (approximately $10 million) of the SPE’s total 
capitalization.   The 3% equity investm  ent had  to rem ain at risk throughout Alpha’s term             , 
including exposure to the m ost significant risk in a gas purchase arrangem ent: commodity price 
risk. 

        On or about April 6, 2001, Dynegy’s accounting  and tax adviser issued Dynegy a letter 

5 
        As articulated in the technical memorandum in support of the April 6, 2001 tax opinion by Dynegy’s outside tax 
adviser (signed in conjunction with Alpha’s closing): “ABG (i) will not hedge i ts entire risk under the Natural Gas 
Purchase Agreement and (ii) to the extent its risks are hedged, they will not be directly hedged with [Dynegy], an affiliate 
of [Dynegy], or any other entities that are a party to the transaction other than in the ordinary course of business as a 
typical counterparty.”   

6 
        Hedging of fi xed-price exposure with Dynegy and AB G Supply as di rect swap counter-parties was cl early 
prohibited. Instead, Dynegy and ABG Supply entered into back-to-back swaps with Citigroup Inc., placing Citigroup in 
the middle of mirror-image swaps.  The tear-up provisions protected Citigroup by granting it the right to terminate one 
swap if the back-to-back swap was terminated.  For example, were Dynegy to default on its swap, Citigroup would have 
the right to terminate (or “tear up”) its swap with ABG Supply, thereby relieving it of its obligation to make a swap 
payment.  The t ear-up provisions rendered the back-to-back swaps economically indistinguishable from direct hedges 
between Dynegy and ABG Supply and impermissibly linked the swaps together.   On July 28, 2003, the Commission 
issued a settled cease-and-desist order against Citigroup, In the Matter of Citigroup, Inc., Securities Exchange Act of 
1934, Rel. No. 48230, and filed a settled civil suit against Citigroup in the Southern District of Texas, Houston Division, 
SEC v. Dynegy Inc. (H-02-3623). The Commission made findings in the cease-and-desist order (and alleged in the civil 
complaint) that Citigroup caused violations of Section 10(b) and Exchange Act Rule 10b-5, relating to its involvement in 
Project Alpha. Citigroup, without admitting or denying the Commission’s findings, agreed to the issuance of the cease-
and-desist order and paid a civil penalty in the related civil suit. 

                                                    4

---------------------Page 5---------------------

under Statement on Auditing Standards 50 (the “SAS 50 letter”).   The SAS 50 letter instructed 
that any hedging of com    modity price risk could not extend to the m        inimum 3% equity 
investment in the SPE ABG Supply.  The SAS 50 letter also rested on representations that, aside 
from certain specified derivative transactions,  there would be “no residual insurance, residual 
guarantee, or any other type of investm ent or in strument . . . that would ensure ABG’s equity 
investors’ recovery of their portion of the ABG required minimum equity investment.”  The SAS 
50 opinion also was based on an assumption that the “equity contributed will be … at risk for the 
life of ABG [Supply]” and “will not be guaranteed in recovery or return through financial hedges 
or other m echanisms.”   The 97% debt capita lization could, however, be hedged, and face no 
commodity price risk. 7 

       Contrary to these principles, Dynegy and certain of  its em ployees facilitated the equity 
investors’ hedging of all price and interest rate  risk – at Dynegy expense – and even funded a 
swap that ensured the equity investors would   have a claim  functionally equivalent to Dynegy 
senior unsecured credit.   In particular, the e quity investors established a holding com  pany – 
ABG Holdings LLC – as ABG Supply’s parent.  ABG Holdings housed the equity investm ents 
and executed the hedges that protected the equit  y.   Because of the ABG Holdings hedges, the 
equity was not at risk under GAAP. 

       Further, according to the April 6, 2001 opini on issued by Dynegy’s accounting and tax 
adviser, the Internal Revenue Service requires th  at structured tax transactions, at a m  inimum, 
have som e non-tax business justification.    According to the tax opinion, Dynegy’s desired 
accounting treatment  of the Alpha cash flow – as flow      ing from  operations, as opposed to 
financing – constituted the prim  ary non-tax busin ess justification for Alpha.    Consequently, 
when Dynegy publicly disclosed that it would rest ate its 2001 cash flow statem ent to reflect the 
Alpha cash flow as financing, rather than ope  rating cash flow, the accounting and tax adviser 
withdrew the tax opinion. 

               4.     The Restatement 

       On April 3, 2002, the W all Street Journal published an article reporting that Dynegy used 
Alpha to enhance its financial presentation and minimize its tax liabilities.  The SEC then contacted 
Dynegy to inquire about the transaction.  After learning of the equity investors’ hedging and the 
contractual linkage among the swaps and underl ying gas contract, Dynegy’s tax and accounting 
adviser withdrew the tax opinion and SAS 50 opinion in April 2002. 

       On September 24, 2002, the Com mission entered a settled cease-and-desist order against 
Dynegy making findings that Dynegy engaged in securities fraud in connection with its disclosures 
and accounting for Alpha.  The Commission ordered Dynegy to cease and desist from  violating, 
committing or causing violations of Sections 17(a) of the Securities Act, and Sections 10(b), 13(a) 
7 
       Under GAAP, were the equity not at risk, ABG Supply would have to be consolidated in Dynegy’s financial 
statements.  If ABG Supply were consolidated, its borrowing from the lending syndicate to cover its losses in making the 
below-market sales of gas to Dynegy in Alpha’s initial nine months (i.e., the $300 million loan to Dynegy) would appear 
on Dynegy’s Statement of Cash Flow as cash flow from financing (i.e., debt), rather than operating, activities.  

                                                5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

and 13(b)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-13 and 13b2-1 thereunder. 
On September 30, 2002, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas entered a Final 
Judgment by consent in which Dynegy was ordere  d to pay a $3 m  illion civil penalty for its 
violations of the federal securities laws described above. 

       On November 15, 2002, Dynegy filed a Form  8-K restating its 2001 financial results by 
reporting approximately $290 m illion of Alpha-related cash flow as derivi ng from a financing 
activity rather than operations; eliminating the $79 million Alpha-related income tax benefit; and 
consolidating the assets, liabilities and results  of operations of the SPE ABG Gas Supply into 
Dynegy's financial statements, increasing Dynegy's reported indebtedness by approximately $280 
million.  The increased debt reflects ABG Supply's borrowing to cover the losses it sustained during 
the first year of Alpha. 

              5.      Doty’s Role 

       Doty, Dynegy’s then-CFO, was involved in the decision to proceed with Alpha in order to 
minimize the gap between Dynegy’s reported net income and operating cash flow, and to realize a 
related tax benefit.   In addition, Doty was involved in the decision not to m ake any separate 
disclosure of Alpha’s unique, non-commercial pricing characteristics, or that 37% of Dynegy’s 2001 
operating cash flow originated from  a syndicate of  off-balance-sheet lenders, or that 12% of 
Dynegy’s net income derived from a tax shelter that had never been tested in court or approved by 
the IRS.  Doty knew or was reckless in not knowing that these and other characteristics of Alpha 
rendered Dynegy’s financial presentation inaccurate and required separate disclosure of Alpha. 

       Further, Doty took no steps to prohibit or  monitor hedging of risks by the sophisticated 
financial institutions serving as equity investors.  Finally, Doty knew that Alpha’s primary business 
purposes were m inimizing taxes and m anufacturing operating cash flow.    Nonetheless, when 
Alpha’s existence was exposed in an April     3, 2002 newspaper article, Doty em  phasized the 
“substantial source of physical gas supply” provided by Alpha, while downplaying Alpha’s cash-
flow effects. 

       D.     LEGAL ANALYSIS 

       Section 17(a) of the Securities Act prohib its employing a fraudulent schem e or m aking 
material misrepresentations and omissions in the offer or sale of a securit y.   Section 10(b) of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder prohibit  the same conduct, if com mitted in connection 
with the purchase or sale of securities.  To violate these provisions, the alleged misrepresentations or 
omitted facts must be material.  Information is deemed material upon a showing of a substantial 
likelihood that the omitted facts would have assumed significance in the investment deliberations of 
a reasonable investor.  Basic, Inc. v. Levinson, 485 U.S. 224 (1988).   Establishing violations of 
Section 17(a)(1) of the Securities Act and Sec  tion 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 
thereunder requires a showing of scienter.  Aaron v. SEC, 446 U.S. 680 (1980).  However, actions 
pursuant to Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act do not require such a showing.  Id. 
Scienter is the “mental state embracing intent to deceive, manipulate or defraud.”  Ernst & Ernst v. 
Hochfelder, 425 U.S. 185, 193 (1976).   Scienter is established by a showing that the defendants 

                                               6

---------------------Page 7---------------------

acted intentionally or with severe recklessness. See Broad v. Rockwell International Corp., 642 F.2d 
929 (5th Cir.) (en banc), cert. denied, 454 U.S. 965 (1981). 

       Respondent willfully violated the antifra  ud provisions of the Securities Act and the 
Exchange Act.  8
                  Respondent was one of Dynegy’s senior        reporting officials.   Alpha was an 
undisclosed, highly complex transaction that incorrectly reported the source of Dynegy’s cash flow 
and dramatically overstated Dynegy’s cash flow from operations.    Doty signed Dynegy’s 2001 
Form 10-K, which m isstated Alpha’s im pact on  Dynegy’s financial statem ents.   Because of 
Respondent’s failure to ensure appropriate accounting treatment and failure to disclose the financing 
transactions underlying Alpha, Dynegy’s financial performance was materially misstated. There is a 
substantial likelihood that these false representations and associated omissions would have assumed 
actual significance in the investm ent deliberations of a reasonable investor.   As a result of the 
conduct stated herein, Respondent violated Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and Section 10(b) of 
the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder. 

       Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act requires issuers such as Dynegy to file periodic reports 
with the Commission containing such information as the Commission prescribes by rule.  Exchange 
Act Rule 13a-1 requires issuers to file annual   reports, and Exchange Act Rule 13a-13 requires 
issuers to file quarterly reports.  Under Exchange Act Rule 12b-20, the reports m ust contain, in 
addition to disclosures expressly required by statute and rules, such other information as is necessary 
to ensure that the statem ents made are not, unde r the circumstances, materially misleading.  The 
obligation to file reports includes the requirement that the reports be true and correct.  United States 
v. Bilzerian,  926 F.2d 1285, 1298 (2d Cir.),  cert. denied, 502 U.S. 813 (1991).   The reporting 
provisions are violated if false and misleading reports are filed.  SEC v. Falstaff Brewing Corp., 629 
F.2d 62, 67 (D.C. Cir. 1980). Scienter is not an element of a violation of Section 13(a) or Rules 13a-
1, 13a-13 or 12b-20 of the Exchange Act. See SEC v. Savoy Indus., Inc., 587 F.2d 1149, 1167 (D.C. 
Cir. 1978). 

       Dynegy violated these provisions by filing second and third quarter 2001 Forms 10-Q and a 
2001 Form 10-K that were false and misleading.  Dynegy’s false accounting treatment of Alpha, and 
the absence of any clarifying disclosure of Alpha’s true purpose and effect, caused the violations. 
Dynegy should have treated the cash flow from Alpha as a loan and ABG Supply should have been 
consolidated in Dynegy’s financial statements, which would have had numerous material effects on 
Dynegy’s financial statements.  If consolidated, ABG Supply’s $300 million borrowing to fund the 
losses during the first nine months of the Gas Contract would have been reflected as cash flow from 
financing activities, rather than operations, on Dynegy’s Statem  ent of Cash Flow; the liability 
associated with Alpha would have appeared as debt on Dynegy’s Balance Sheet, rather than risk-

8 
       Respondent’s misrepresentations and omissions relating to Alpha were committed in connection with purchases 
and sales of Dynegy securities on the secondary market, and violated, therefore, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and 
Rule 10b-5, thereunder. Because Dynegy’s Alpha-related misrepresentations and omissions were contained in Dynegy’s 
second and third quarter 2001 Forms 10-Q and its 2001 Form 10-K, which are incorporated by reference in the registered 
securities offerings Dynegy was conducting during the period, a nd in the Dynegy financial  statements distributed in 
connection with those offerings, those Alpha-related misrepresentations and omissions also violated Sections 17(a)(1), 
17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act. 

                                                 7

---------------------Page 8---------------------

management liability; and the tax benefit would not have been available to Dynegy, meaning that 
Dynegy’s net income would have been reduced by $79 million on Dynegy’s Income Statement.  By 
the conduct described herein, Respondent aided a nd abetted or caused Dynegy’s violations of 
Exchange Act Section 13(a) and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13 and 12b-20 thereunder. 

       Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act re quires all issuers to m ake and keep books, 
records, and accounts that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their transactions and 
dispositions of their assets. Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to devise and 
maintain an adequate system  of  internal accounting controls.  Scienter and m ateriality are not 
elements of a violation of these provisions.  SEC v. World-Wide Coin Inv., Ltd., 567 F. Supp. 724, 
749-50 (N.D. Ga. 1983).  Section 13(b)(5) of the  Exchange Act provides that “no person shall 
knowingly circumvent or knowingly fail to implement a system of internal accounting controls or 
knowingly falsify any book, record, or account described [in Section 13(b)(2)].”   

       Dynegy, through its treatm ent of Alpha, violat ed Section 13(b)(2)(A) by failing to keep 
books, records and accounts that accurately and fairly   reflected its assets and financial results. 
Dynegy violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) by failing to devise and maintain a system of internal controls 
sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that  structured transactions involving special purpose 
entities are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with 
GAAP.  Respondent aided and abetted or caused these violations by the conduct described herein. 
Through the same conduct, Doty also violated Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act. 

       Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1 (prom ulgated under Section 13(b)(2) of the Exchange Act) 
prohibits any person from falsifying or causing to be falsified any accounting books and records of 
reporting public companies.   Scienter is not an elem ent of a violation of Rule 13b2-1.    SEC v. 
McNulty, 137 F.3d 732 (2d Cir. 1998). Respondent’s falsification of Dynegy’s books in connection 
with Alpha effectively disguised a loan as operating cash flow in violation of Exchange Act Rule 
13b2-1. 

                                              IV. 

       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that: 

       Doty willfully violated Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5 and 13b2-1 thereunder; and willfully aided and abetted and caused 
Dynegy’s violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 
12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 promulgated thereunder. 

                                               V. 

       In determining whether to accept the Offer, the Com mission has considered the following 
undertakings: 

                                               8

---------------------Page 9---------------------

       A.      Doty undertakes and agrees to pa y a civil penalty of $120,000, which shall be 
available for allocation in accordance with Section 308 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   Doty 
consents to pay the civil penalty in a separately filed civil action. 

       B.      Doty undertakes and agrees that, for a period of five years, he will not act as an 
officer or director of any issuer that has a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the 
Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78(l)] or that is required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the 
Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78o(d)]. Doty consents to the imposition of the officer and director bar 
in a separately filed civil action. 

       C.      Doty undertakes and agrees to cooperate with the Commission and its staff in any 
further investigation of this matter. 

                                               VI. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Com mission deems it appropriate to im pose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and Section 21C of the Exchange 
Act, and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Com  mission’s Rules of Practice, it is hereby ORDERED, 
effective immediately, that: 

       A.      Respondent Doty shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations 
and any future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of 
the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5 and 13b2-1 ther eunder, and cease and desist from aiding and 
abetting or causing violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act 
and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder. 

       B.      Within thirty days of  the entry of  th is Order, Doty shall pay disgorgem  ent of 
$200,000, plus prejudgment interest of $56,560,  which shall be delivered into the Registry of the 
Court for the United States District Court f or the  Southern District of Texas by wire transfer or 
certified check made payable to Clerk, United States District Court.  Such funds shall thereafter be 
distributed in the course of litigation pending in the United States District Court for the Southern 
District of Texas, captioned Securities and Exchange Commission v. Dynegy Inc., Civil Action No. 
H-02-3623 (S.D. Tex. 2002).   Simultaneously, Respondent shall transm it by facsim ile or hand 
delivery to Andy Gould, Clerk’s Office, United States District Court for the Southern District of 
Texas, a letter that describes the fact and purpose of the wire transfer or certified check, identifies the 
Respondent, and identifies the case nam    e a nd num ber of the Dynegy litigation.      A copy 
documentary proof of the wire transfer or certified check and a copy of the letter to the Clerk shall 
be simultaneously transmitted by f acsimile to Ro se L. Rom ero, Fort W orth Regional Director, 
Securities and Exchange Com mission, 801 Cherry Street, 19    th
                                                                Floor, Fort W orth, Texas 76102, 
(817) 978-2700 (facsimile). 

                                                9

---------------------Page 10---------------------

       C.     Doty is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 

       D.     After five years from the date of this Order, Doty may request that the Commission 
consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) 
to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
of any public com pany’s financial statem ents that are filed with the Com    mission.   Such an 
application must satisfy the Com mission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company for 
which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the Commission 
in this capacity; and/or 

              2.      an independent accountant.       Such an application m     ust satisfy the 
Commission that: 

                      (a)    Doty, or the  public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)    Doty, or the registered public  accounting firm  with which he is 
associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of or 
potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that the 
respondent will not receive adequate supervision; 

                      (c)    Doty has resolved all disciplin ary issues with the Board, and has 
complied with all term s and conditions of any   sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      (d)    Doty acknowledges his responsibility, as long as he appears or 
practice before the Commission, as an independent accountant, to comply with all requirements of 
the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, 
inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards. 

       E.     The Commission will consider an appli cation by Doty to resum e appearing or 
practicing before the Com mission provided that hi s state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the  applicable state boards of accountancy. However, 
if state licensure is dependant on rein  statement by the Com  mission, the Com mission will 
consider an application on its other m erits. The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the m atters referenced above,  any other m atters relating to Doty’s character, 
integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

                                               10

---------------------Page 11---------------------

       F.      There shall be, pursuant to Section 308( a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, a 
Fair Fund established for the funds described in this Order. 

       By the Commission. 

       N                                              ancy M. Morris
       S                                              ecretary 

                                               11

