---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                     BEFORE THE 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 8715 / June 28, 2006 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 54057 / June 28, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2449 / June 28, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
FILE NO. 3-12345  
 
In the Matter of                     ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
                                     PROCEEDINGS, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
RAYTHEON COMPANY,                    IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
DANIEL P. BURNHAM, and               PURSUANT TO SECTION 8A OF THE 
ALDO R. SERVELLO,                    SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 AND SECTION 21C 
                                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Respondents. 
 
                                            I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the 
Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Raytheon Company (“Raytheon” or the “company”), Daniel P. 
Burnham (“Burnham”), and Aldo R. Servello (“Servello”) [collectively, “Respondents”]. 
 
                                           II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting 
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order 
Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.1

                                                 
1
  In a separate civil action filed simultaneously with this proceeding, Raytheon, Burnham, and Servello each 
separately consented to the entry of a judgment by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia pursuant to 
Section 20(d) of the Securities Act and Section 21(d) of the Exchange Act ordering them to pay civil penalties of 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds that:2
 
       A. RESPONDENTS 

       Raytheon is a Delaware corporation, headquartered in Waltham, Massachusetts.  The 
company is an industry leader in defense, government electronics, space technology, and 
business and special mission aircraft.  Between 1997 and 2001, Raytheon reported between $13 
billion and $20 billion in net sales revenue annually and employed between 75,000 to 120,000 
individuals.  During this time period and continuing through today, Raytheon’s securities have 
been registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Act and listed 
on the New York, Chicago, and Pacific Exchanges. 

       Burnham, age 59, became Raytheon’s President and Chief Operating Officer in July 
1998.  He served as Raytheon’s Chief Executive Officer from December 1998 through July 2003 
and as Chairman from August 1999 until January 2004. 

       Servello, age 50, held several senior positions in RAC’s financial organization between 
July 1998 to July 2001, including Controller, Acting CFO, and Deputy CFO.  Since July 2001, 
Servello has been employed at other divisions of Raytheon. 

       B. SUMMARY 

       Between 1997 and 2001, Raytheon and certain members of its senior management made 
false and misleading disclosures and used improper accounting practices that operated as a fraud 
by masking the declining results and deteriorating business of Raytheon Aircraft Company 
(“RAC”) and inaccurately reporting the company’s operating results on both a segmented and 
consolidated basis.  As set forth below, certain of these disclosures and accounting practices 
were undertaken by or with the knowledge of senior company officers, including Burnham and 
Servello. 
        
       From 1997 through 1999, Raytheon prematurely recognized revenue on RAC’s sale of 
unfinished aircraft through improper “bill and hold” transactions.  As a result, the company 
materially overstated RAC’s net sales by approximately $80 million at year-end 1997 and $110 
million at year-end 1998, which led to 13 percent overstatements of the subsidiary’s annual 
operating income in both of these periods.  These errors enabled both Raytheon and RAC to 
meet certain internal and external earnings targets.  Although Raytheon did restate for these 
material errors at year-end 1999, the company misleadingly attributed the restatement to 
                                                                                                                                                             
$12 million, $100,000, and $15,000 and disgorgement of $1.00, $875,000 plus pre-judgment interest of 
$263,344.37, and $15,000 plus pre-judgment interest of $4,628.28, respectively.  SEC v. Raytheon Co., et al., Civil 
Action No. 06 CV 1182 (GK). 
2
  The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers and are not binding on any other person or entity in 
this or any other proceeding.  

                                                 2
---------------------Page 3---------------------

additional “clarification” supposedly provided by “new guidance” on revenue recognition 
recently issued by the Commission in Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 (“SAB 101”) instead of 
the improper accounting practices that had occurred at RAC prior to that time. 
        
       In addition, between 1997 and 2001, Raytheon failed to fully and accurately disclose 
known risks, trends, uncertainties, and other information concerning the deteriorating state of 
RAC’s commuter aircraft business and the negative impact this decline was having on asset 
values associated with RAC’s line of nineteen-seat, turboprop aircraft (the “commuters” or the 
“1900s”) and, thus, on the company’s (including RAC’s) results of operations.  Raytheon also 
engaged in several improper accounting practices that delayed and mischaracterized known 
losses associated with RAC’s commuter line during this time period.   
        
       As Raytheon’s CEO, Burnham failed to make or ensure the timely, accurate, and full 
disclosure of these material trends and uncertainties in the company’s public filings during 2000 
and 2001, failed to take sufficient steps to ensure that Raytheon properly accounted for the 
company’s on- and off-balance sheet commuter assets during this time period, and did not ensure 
that the company maintained an adequate system of internal accounting controls related to these 
assets.  As RAC’s Deputy CFO and Controller, Servello failed to ensure that Raytheon properly 
accounted for the company’s on- and off-balance sheet commuter assets during 2000, and he 
failed to ensure that Raytheon maintained an adequate system of internal accounting controls at 
RAC related to the proper recording of these assets. 
        
       Had Raytheon properly accounted for its commuter assets, the company would have 
reported material reductions in RAC’s reported operating income of at least $34 million, $22 
million, and $21 million at year-end 1998, 1999, and 2000, respectively, which represented 13 
percent of the subsidiary’s reported annual operating income in each of these periods.  Moreover, 
RAC’s operating results would have been further reduced by at least $67 million (41 percent) at 
year-end 2000 had Burnham, Servello, and others in senior Raytheon and RAC management 
timely and appropriately recognized losses inherent in a planned “soft landing” of the commuter 
aircraft line.  Furthermore, at this time, internal company documents and other information 
indicate that these senior executives expected commuter losses of $240 million given the cash 
sales prices that had been approved in the “soft landing,” and a charge of $67 million to $240 
million would have reduced Raytheon’s 2000 profit before taxes by at least 8 to 27 percent.  
Burnham and other senior Raytheon officers, however, caused Raytheon to improperly take this 
charge in the third quarter of 2001, when the company wrote down its on- and off-balance sheet 
commuter assets by $693 million after the terrorist attacks of September 11th.  Given the charge 
that the company should have taken at year-end 2000, Raytheon’s third quarter 2001 commuter 
loss provision was materially overstated by at least 10 to 53 percent. 
        
C. FACTS 

       In the early 1990s, Raytheon was a diversified, multi-national conglomerate, which 
operated in the defense, electronics, engineering and construction, major appliances and aircraft 
businesses.  The company formed RAC in 1994 through the combination of Beech Aircraft and 
Raytheon Corporate Jets, and the wholly-owned Raytheon subsidiary has been reported as a 
separate segment in all of the company’s public filings since that time.  RAC manufactures, 
markets, and services business jets, turboprops, and piston-powered aircraft for the world’s 

                                               3
---------------------Page 4---------------------

commercial, fractional ownership, and military aircraft markets.  Due to the cyclical nature of 
these markets, RAC often experienced fluctuating results.  For example, between 1997 and 2001, 
RAC generated between $2.3 billion and $3.2 billion in net sales revenue for the company 
annually, accounting for 13 to 19 percent of Raytheon’s consolidated sales revenues. 

       In 1997, Raytheon completed two multi-billion dollar defense acquisitions in an effort to 
streamline its operations and solidify its position as one of the nation’s largest military 
contractors.  These acquisitions led to a doubling of Raytheon’s long-term debt load (increasing 
it to over $8 billion) and a substantial lowering of Raytheon’s credit rating.  In an effort to reduce 
the burden of its debt expense on earnings and cash flows, Raytheon began to divest many of its 
“non-core” commercial units, using the cash generated by these sales to pay down debt it 
incurred as a result of its defense acquisitions.  RAC was ultimately targeted for divestiture as 
part of this plan. 

       1.           Raytheon’s Improper Bill and Hold Aircraft Sales 

       Between 1997 and 1999, RAC prematurely recognized revenue on improper “bill and 
hold” aircraft sales (also known as “green sales” or “financial deliveries”) that did not comply 
with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). 

       In particular, every quarter and more prevalently at the end of the fiscal year, members of 
senior RAC management held “executive review sessions,” in which they identified unfinished 
planes in the production process that could be “pulled forward” for a “financial delivery” to 
“bridge” certain “gaps” or “shortfalls” in RAC’s performance targets.  It was inappropriate to 
recognize revenue on these sales because the aircraft were not complete and ready for shipment, 
the seller (RAC) and not the purchaser had requested the bill and hold sale, and significant 
incentives were being given to customers in order to induce them to accept a “sale” before 
quarter- or year-end, all of which disqualified the aircraft for sales treatment under GAAP. 

       In 1997, RAC’s green sales resulted in an $80 million overstatement of the subsidiary’s 
net sales, which artificially inflated RAC’s quarterly operating income by between 13 and 28 
percent, the subsidiary’s annual operating income by 13 percent, and Raytheon’s annual earnings 
by 7 cents per share.  Raytheon did not disclose RAC’s non-GAAP bill and hold practices in any 
of its 1997 Forms 10-Q or its Form 10-K, which each noted RAC’s “record sales” and “record 
operating income.”  In January 1998, the company filed a Form S-3 registration statement and 
subsequent prospectus supplements for a $3 billion shelf registration and takedown of securities.  
These filings made no mention of RAC’s improper bill and hold accounting and also 
incorporated by reference Raytheon’s prior misleading periodic reports as well as all future 
periodic reports that Raytheon would file with the Commission. 

       In 1998, RAC’s bill and hold sales inflated the segment’s quarterly operating income by 
20 and 100 percent in the second and fourth quarters, respectively, and RAC’s annual operating 
income by 13 percent.  Raytheon, however, did not disclose RAC’s bill and hold practices in its 
1998 SEC filings but again described RAC’s “record” sales and operating income and 
“increased” aircraft shipments.  In December 1998, Raytheon was aware that RAC had only been 
able to achieve its year-end sales and profit goals through “significant green sales” activity, 
which increased the company’s fourth quarter earnings by 8 cents per share.  As a result, 

                                                4
---------------------Page 5---------------------

Raytheon met analyst expectations that quarter.  Raytheon’s 1998 Form 10-K, however, stated 
that “Revenue from aircraft sales are generally recognized at the time of shipment,” omitting a 
description of RAC’s non-GAAP bill and hold accounting practices. 

       In 1999, RAC’s improper bill and hold sales practices led to material misstatements of 
the subsidiary’s operating income in the first, second, and third quarters.  Raytheon again made 
no disclosure of these practices.  In July 1999, the company filed another Form S-3 registration 
statement and subsequent prospectus supplements related to its $3 billion shelf registration and 
takedown of securities.  These filings made no mention of RAC’s improper bill and hold 
accounting practices and also incorporated by reference Raytheon’s prior misleading periodic 
reports as well as all future filings made by the company. 

       At year-end 1999, Raytheon restated its prior financial results to correct the improper bill 
and hold accounting that had occurred prior to that time, which indicated that the company had 
materially misstated RAC’s reported quarterly and annual operating income in the nine Forms 
10-Q, and two Forms 10-K that the company had filed during fiscal years 1997, 1998, and 1999.  
The company, however, improperly attributed the restatement to additional “clarification” 
supposedly provided by “new guidance” on revenue recognition set forth in SAB 101, which had 
been issued by the Commission in December 1999, instead of the improper accounting practices 
that had occurred at RAC with the knowledge and involvement of senior management prior to 
that time. 

       2. Raytheon’s Improper Accounting           and Disclosures for Its Commuter 
              Business 

       Between 1997 and 2001, Raytheon also deferred substantial losses related to RAC’s line 
of commuter aircraft.  These planes were typically used by small, thinly capitalized airlines to 
transport passengers along regional or local routes.  These carriers were generally seen as 
significant credit risks, were thus frequently unable to obtain independent financing for their 
aircraft purchases, and typically lacked sufficient cash on hand to make outright purchases of 
RAC’s commuter aircraft.   

       As a result, RAC rarely sold its new or used 1900s for cash.  Instead, over 90 percent of 
RAC’s sales were financed by the subsidiary’s captive finance company, Raytheon Aircraft 
Credit Corporation (“RACC”), which offered below-market interest rates and other favorable 
terms to customers in order to increase demand for the 1900s.  These terms were not favorable to 
the company and contributed to its increasing debt burden.  RAC also regularly took used 
commuter aircraft (model 1900Bs and 1900Cs) in trade for the purchase of newer planes (model 
1900Ds) which left RAC with a supply of used 1900s in inventory.   

       RACC sold most of its aircraft receivables, including commuter financing receivables, 
into a revolving credit facility funded by an outside bank syndicate, which removed the debt 
associated with these financed sales from the company’s balance sheet.  Under the terms of the 
credit facility agreement, Raytheon was obligated to re-purchase certain delinquent and defaulted 
receivables, and the level of recourse to Raytheon averaged between 75 to 100 percent 
depending upon the type of financing.  RACC also renegotiated and restructured many of the 

                                               5
---------------------Page 6---------------------

payment arrangements it had with certain RAC customers in order to keep these customers from 
becoming overly delinquent or otherwise defaulting on their notes. 

              a.           Between 1997 and 1998, Raytheon saw a declining commuter market 

       During the late 1990s, RAC began to experience softening demand for its commuter 
aircraft due to, among other things, shifting consumer preferences, increased government 
regulation of nineteen-seat aircraft, increased competition in the used aircraft market, and the 
introduction of regional jets.  These and other factors combined to place downward pressure on 
the sales prices, lease rates, and asset values of these planes.  Thus, in 1997, RAC began for the 
first time to place used 1900s with customers on operating leases and substantially ceased 
outright sales of used 1900s for cash.   

       In addition, many of the used commuters that RAC received as returns, repossessions, 
and trade-ins required significant refurbishment before RAC could re-market them.  These 
refurbishment costs were capitalized as part of the aircraft’s book value, which led to “[h]igher 
book values” that “can and do exceed fair market value.”  In response, RAC adopted a policy of 
depreciating the used commuter aircraft on an accelerated basis during the life of their leases to 
“bring down values” to amounts that were more likely to be recovered in later cash sales.  By so 
doing, RAC improperly deferred and re-characterized losses associated with high commuter 
book values as ordinary depreciation. 

       In April 1998, Raytheon’s internal audit department identified that the capitalization of 
RAC’s refurbishment costs was leading to inflated book values for the commuter aircraft.  
Although senior RAC management agreed to establish limits on the carrying values of used 
1900Cs at $3.4 million to $3.7 million, by year-end 1999, more than twenty 1900Cs in inventory 
had book values of more than $4 million per plane net of specific reserves. 

       By late 1998, Raytheon was aware of potential risks, uncertainties, and adverse trends in 
RAC’s commuter business.  For example, in October 1998, a RAC sales plan noted that the “US 
market continues to be soft for this size [of] aircraft.”  In December 1998, an internal Raytheon 
analyst wrote that “[t]he 19-seat turboprop market is in trouble” and described several factors 
that were “clearly putting the viability of the 1900D in doubt.”  Later that month, after being 
informed that “the market for the 1900D appears to be in decline” and “continuing 1900D 
financing is probably RAC’s major financial exposure,” Burnham, who had just become 
Raytheon’s CEO, observed that “clearly, the 1900D is a worry” and asked senior RAC 
management “how solid is our build/sell forecast?”  Burnham further authorized a series of 
external studies into the future market demand for commuters and an internal financial analysis 
of the risks associated with these aircraft. 

              b.          Raytheon’s improper accounting and disclosures in 1997 and 1998 

       Raytheon made no meaningful disclosures of the known risks, trends, and uncertainties 
associated with the deteriorating state of RAC’s commuter business, such as the softening 
demand for commuters, the increasing trend in returns and repossessions, and the movement in 
RAC’s commuter placement program away from sales and to begin offering leases, in any of the 
company’s SEC filings from 1997 through 1998.   

                                               6
---------------------Page 7---------------------

       Raytheon also engaged in improper accounting for RAC’s commuter business that served 
to offset the negative effects that the declining commuter market was having on asset values for 
the 1900s during this time period.  For example, Raytheon transferred $15 million in “corporate 
reserves” to RAC at year-end 1997, which RAC initially used to “off-set” potential exposures 
associated with over-valued 1900s.  The company did not properly disclose or account for these 
reserves, however, which represented 7 percent of RAC’s reported annual operating income that 
year.  Although this $15 million charge should have been taken to ordinary operating income, 
Raytheon reported it as a “special charge” reflecting the write down of unidentified “non-current 
assets” at RAC.  In addition, instead of using the charge to write down the non-current commuter 
assets held for lease, RAC ultimately used this reserve to absorb losses incurred in subsequent 
periods when aircraft were refurbished. 

       Furthermore, during 1997 and the first three quarters of 1998, Raytheon was aware that 
RAC had not implemented and was not complying with FAS 125 (the new guidance for off-
balance sheet accounting that became effective on January 1, 1997).  However, in its 1997 Form 
10-K, the company stated that it had adopted this standard in 1997 and that this purported 
adoption “did not have a material effect on the company’s financial position or results of 
operations.”  In 1998, Raytheon continued to be aware that “management ha[d] yet to record the 
sale of receivables in full accordance with FAS 125” and that “[t]he SEC has recently raised 
concerns about registrants’ reporting under FAS 125.”  Yet, it was not until the fourth quarter of 
1998 that RAC began to implement FAS 125.  However, RAC based its FAS 125 calculations on 
incomplete and inaccurate data and also improperly measured its recourse liability obligations on 
the receivables sold into the credit facility.  As a result, for 1998, Raytheon reported additional 
operating income of $18 million on the sale of commuter receivables to the credit facility instead 
of a $9 million loss.  Proper FAS 125 accounting would have reduced RAC’s reported annual 
operating income by $27 million (11 percent) at year-end. 

       RAC also established reserves for commuter losses equal to any FAS 125 gains that were 
recognized on the sale of commuter receivables.  This practice of making perfectly off-setting 
adjustments left no trace on RAC’s reported earnings.  As a result, Raytheon’s reported financial 
statements did not accurately reflect the accounting impact of declining commuter values.  For 
example, in the fourth quarter of 1998, Raytheon recorded a $6.5 million gain on the sale of 
commuter receivables, which was offset by an equal $6.5 million reserve for commuters.  No 
documentation supported the amount of the $6.5 million loss provision, and the amount reserved 
corresponded to nothing other than the amount of the recorded gain.  At the time, the improper 
$6.5 million adjustment amounted to nearly 8 percent of the subsidiary’s fourth quarter 1998 
operating income of $82 million. 

              c.           In 1999, Raytheon deferred significant commuter losses 

       Due to unrelated difficulties in its defense businesses and engineering and construction 
unit, Raytheon announced an unexpected $640 million charge during 1999, which caused the 
price of the company’s stock to fall 44 percent in one day.  The charge in 1999 also led to a 
downgrading of the company’s bond and credit ratings, and Raytheon continued with its strategy 
to pay down its debt by divesting certain “non-core” commercial units.  RAC was one of the 
segments targeted for divestiture as part of this strategy. 

                                               7
---------------------Page 8---------------------

       Throughout 1999, Raytheon and certain senior officers (including Burnham) were made 
aware of potential negative and adverse trends, uncertainties, and risks related to RAC’s 
commuter business.  In April 1999, an outside consultant informed Raytheon that the commuter 
market was “at a turning point,” that other “[c]arriers have begun to flood the market with…used 
19-seat airplanes,” that “lease rates for used 19-seat aircraft [we]re declining,” that the 
“[d]ownward pressure on lease rates w[ould] grow as the surplus of 19-seat aircraft expands,” 
and that “[a]dditional lease rate pressures could impact the company’s asset values and re-
marketing efforts.”  Burnham was briefed on this situation and management’s views of it.   

       Also in April 1999, a senior Raytheon financial officer was informed that these “surplus” 
aircraft and “lower lease rates could drive declining asset values and represent a potential 
material write down” of the commuter assets.  This officer was further informed that there was 
an “obvious” need for a “material write-down” of RAC’s commuter assets, that these losses were 
“large and growing,” that RAC was engaging in “misleading financial reporting,” and that the 
situation was “as bad as [one executive had ever] seen.” 

       In May 1999, an internal Raytheon study forecasted that RAC’s commuter portfolio 
would generate an estimated $95 million in losses due to “[t]he lack of portfolio equity, poor 
customer credit and payment behavior, high loan-to-value ratios, and the modest level of 
reserves” established for these assets.  That same study identified a “worst case scenario” that 
could generate $200 million in additional losses depending upon the impact of the “upcoming 
introduction” of regional jets.  Burnham was briefed on this situation and management’s views 
of it. 

       In June 1999, a senior Raytheon financial officer was advised that there was an estimated 
exposure of $300 million to $500 million in marking the RACC portfolio to market.   

       Also in June 1999, Burnham and other senior Raytheon officers received a “response” 
from RAC to the April and May 1999 external and internal studies.  This response set forth the 
view of RAC management that there was greater demand for new commuter aircraft than 
forecast by the company’s outside consultant.  RAC’s response also advised that it was “a 
corporate decision” whether to “build reserves” on the commuters, but this would occur “at the 
expense of current period profits.”  RAC’s response instead proposed addressing the $95 million 
commuter exposure identified in May 1999 through “third party, no recourse notes,” which 
would provide an estimated $93 million “improvement.”  These sales did not materialize, 
however.  Yet, reserves were not adequately increased. 

       In July 1999, in connection with an attempt to securitize all of RAC’s aircraft receivables, 
the company’s investment bankers informed Raytheon that the commuter portfolio should be 
valued “at a material discount to its current book value,” that “actual collateral values may be 
substantially lower than loan balances,” and that “[p]ortfolio policies may be masking problems 
from being recognized.”   

       In August 1999, as part of an initial consideration to divest RAC, Burnham and other 
senior Raytheon finance executives were informed that there was “approximately $250 Million - 
$350 Million risk in [the] $2.4 Billion loan/lease portfolio,” and the “risk is likely to approach 
the high end of this range over time” since “about 40% of loan/lease payments are delinquent” 

                                               8
---------------------Page 9---------------------

and “business cycle downturn may also drive up defaults [and] reduce residual values of used 
aircraft.” 

       In the Fall of 1999, after the initial effort to divest RAC failed, Raytheon attempted to sell 
RAC’s portfolio of aircraft receivables (including its commuter receivables) to an outside finance 
company.  The finance company, however, informed Raytheon that it would not purchase any of 
the commuter loans due to concerns over their high loan-to-value ratios and high concentrations 
in certain customers.  The finance company also provided Raytheon with an independent 
valuation analysis of the 1900s, which stated that the commuter industry was experiencing a 
“distinct reduction in sales activity” and a “downturn” in leasing activity over the past year.  This 
report also listed estimated market values for the 1900s that were below their book values.   

       At year-end 1999, Burnham and others in senior Raytheon and RAC management were 
informed that the company’s outside auditors had a “continued concern about commuter 
portfolio exposure” and, if there is “any slip,” the commuter inventory “balance will balloon.”  In 
addition, following a number of production and accounting problems that arose at RAC as part of 
the year-end close, the subsidiary’s CEO stepped down from his executive position, and 
Burnham traveled to the subsidiary to make it clear that RAC personnel had to improve their 
processes to prevent similar issues from occurring in the future.   

       Thereafter, in early 2000, RAC’s newly-installed CEO instructed his staff to critically 
examine the subsidiary’s operations, and Servello took the lead role in identifying issues to be 
examined.  As part of this review, Servello and other RAC personnel identified a potential $220 
million exposure related to the commuter assets on and off the balance sheet.  This estimate was 
calculated by comparing “[p]rices which could be readily obtainable in today’s market” to 
commuter book values.  The market values used in the analysis averaged from $500,000 to $1 
million below the commuter book values.  However, the company did not write down its 
commuter assets or adequately increase its commuter reserves at that time.  Instead, based on 
overly optimistic internal analyses prepared by RAC executives, the company concluded that no 
“event of impairment” had occurred. 

       In January 2000, Raytheon had issued an earnings advisory for the fourth quarter of 1999 
and the full year 2000 because of aircraft production delays at RAC, a restatement due to RAC’s 
improper bill and hold accounting, higher interest expenses, a higher effective tax rate, and other 
unfavorable results.  Following this announcement, Raytheon’s stock price fell approximately 17 
percent in one day.  And, by March 2000, it was reported that Raytheon’s bond and credit ratings 
might be further downgraded “[i]f corrective actions do not lead to material long-term 
improvements in overall performance and its balance sheet, or if material new operating 
problems emerge….” 

              d.          Raytheon’s improper accounting and disclosures in 1999 

       Raytheon did not make adequate disclosures of the negative and adverse trends, 
uncertainties, risks, and other information related to RAC’s commuter aircraft or the subsidiary’s 
commuter business in the company’s SEC filings from 1999.  Raytheon’s 1999 Form 10-K did 
refer to “commuter valuation costs” as one of five factors affecting RAC’s “decline in operating 
income as a percent of sales in 1999,” but this disclosure failed to provide adequate information 

                                               9
---------------------Page 10---------------------

concerning the known material and adverse risks, uncertainties, and trends posed by the 
commuters. 

       In addition, the forward-looking statements in Raytheon’s 1999 Form 10-K stated that 
“the effect of market conditions, particularly as it affects the general aviation market, the impact 
of competing products and pricing, [and] the impact on recourse obligations of RAC due to 
changes in the collateral value of financed aircraft” were among the many “factors that could 
cause actual results to differ,” but did not mention “commuter” aircraft by name or provide 
adequate information about the negative trends, uncertainties, and risks concerning the 
commuters that were known to management at the time.  Likewise, another set of forward-
looking statements in Raytheon’s 1999 Form 10-K stated that “continued market acceptance of, 
and government regulations affecting, 19-seat turboprop commuter aircraft” could affect RAC’s 
future results of operations, but Raytheon did not disclose the significant information it had 
about the declining commuter market and the exposures facing the company. 

       These forward-looking statements were inconsistent with disclosures in the footnotes to 
the company’s 1999 financial statements, which misleadingly stated that “the Company does not 
expect to incur any material losses against the net book value of the long-term receivables” 
because “it is the Company’s policy to have the aircraft serve as collateral for the commuter 
airline receivables;” that “any liability arising from these transactions will not have a material 
effect on the Company’s financial position, liquidity, or results of operations” given Raytheon’s 
experience to date with resale activities and pricing and the Company’s plan to continue 
production into the foreseeable future; and that “[t]hese financial instruments are recorded at 
estimated fair value.  No material gain or loss resulted from the sales of receivables.”  As 
Raytheon was aware, the fair value of the commuter aircraft serving as collateral for the 
corresponding receivables was declining given the deteriorating market conditions for these 
planes.  Yet, the company was not adequately increasing its reserves for these anticipated short 
falls, causing significant potential future liability under its recourse provisions to the revolving 
credit facility.   

       In addition, contrary to the company’s footnote disclosures, during 1999, RAC continued 
its incorrect practice of using FAS 125 gains on commuter receivables sold into the credit facility 
to set up equally off-setting commuter loss reserves.  As a result, Raytheon’s reported financial 
statements did not accurately reflect the accounting impact of declining commuter values. 

       For example, in the third quarter of 1999, RAC increased its “cushion” for commuter 
losses by roughly $11 million given the improper FAS 125 gains it recognized on the sale of 
commuter receivables into the credit facility.  RAC, however, subsequently reduced that increase 
by roughly $7 million in the fourth quarter of 1999 that offset a significant FAS 125 loss caused 
by a reduction in Raytheon’s credit rating.  These adjustments represented approximately 17 and 
19 percent of the subsidiary’s reported operating income/loss in the third and fourth quarters of 
1999, respectively. 

       Also, RAC still had not properly applied FAS 125 to its off-balance sheet commuter 
receivables during 1999.  As a result, RAC’s reported annual operating income should have been 
reduced by at least $21 million (13 percent) at year-end. 

                                               10
---------------------Page 11---------------------

       e.           In 2000, Raytheon remained aware that the commuter market continued to 
              deteriorate 

       In 2000, a variety of internal and external sources continued to inform Raytheon and 
RAC executives that the market for 1900s was in substantial decline.  These sources further 
indicated that there were actual material commuter losses at RAC and that the potential losses 
associated with the 1900 line were in the hundreds of millions of dollars.   

       In January 2000, Burnham, Servello, and other senior Raytheon and RAC officers 
learned that the company’s strategic planning department viewed RAC as having a substantial 
negative economic value due in large part to $240 million in negative value and exposure 
associated with RAC’s off-balance sheet commuter and general aviation receivables. 

       In February 2000, an outside consultant reported to Raytheon that there would be 
“[c]ontinued downward pressure on turboprop lease rates due to falling demand for new units 
and a growing supply of used capacity” and that “demand for new [commuters] will average 7 to 
12 sales annually,” well below what RAC was planning to manufacture that year.   

       In March 2000, auditors with a major public accounting firm that had been retained to 
perform a review of RAC’s “used commuter program exposures” informed certain members of 
senior Raytheon and RAC management (including Servello) that “the Company’s largest 
exposure in the [commuter] portfolio is with potential returned aircraft” and that “the book 
values of certain aircraft in the portfolio exceed the current market values.”  In particular, these 
auditors identified a $115 million “shortfall” associated with RAC’s 1900Cs that were on and off 
the balance sheet.  The auditors also noted that RAC personnel were “rejecting cash offers on 
commuter aircraft because of the income statement repercussions . . . [implying that] the carrying 
amounts of commuter airplanes exceed their fair market values.”  The auditors further noted that 
RAC only wrote down used commuter asset values “when the Company enters into a new 
finance/lease transaction.”  The auditors also reported that RAC lacked formal and documented 
policies and practices concerning the accounting for commuter aircraft, commuter loan 
restructurings, the creation of commuter valuation reserves, and the monitoring of customer 
accounts and collections. 

       In April 2000, Raytheon’s internal audit department prepared a report for members of 
senior Raytheon and RAC management (including Servello) on the work that had been 
undertaken at the request of RAC’s new CEO, as set forth above.  Although the report concluded 
that no impairment of the commuters had occurred, it did inform management that there was an 
“[u]ndetermined but likely to be significant” exposure related to the used commuter assets since 
“[t]he book values and refurbishment costs on used aircraft may exceed fair market value of cash 
sales….”  The internal audit report further stated that there was another “undetermined” exposure 
associated with the subsidiary’s commuter bad debt reserve since the “[v]aluation and review of 
assets [wa]s not performed timely or regularly.”  In addition, the internal audit report warned that 
there was “[n]o active collection effort” against delinquent commuter customers and the “non-
performing segment” of the commuter portfolio was “increasing.”  The report also stated that 
management should “closely monitor this portfolio as changes will impact the accuracy of 
assumptions….  [A]ctions which might impair used commuters further include…change[s] in 
selling strategies and lease terms…large returns of aircraft which cannot be absorbed into lease 

                                              11
---------------------Page 12---------------------

market…[and an] overt decision not to support the line (such as pulling back significantly on 
new production).” 

       In the months that followed, senior RAC executives tracked on a quarterly basis an 
estimated $220 million “net exposure” in the commuter portfolio given existing reserve levels, 
and these analyses were provided to others in senior RAC management, including Servello.   

       In June 2000, a RAC commuter marketing plan noted that loan values for 1900s 
continued to be “significantly above fair market values” by upwards of $1.3 million per aircraft.  
Shortly thereafter, a draft sales plan warned RAC personnel to “[m]anage used commuter 
reserves cautiously and avoid an accounting event.” 

       In July 2000, auditors with the same major public accounting firm that had previously 
analyzed RAC’s “used commuter program exposures” prepared a report for the company that 
analyzed Raytheon’s off-balance sheet commuter receivables.  This report highlighted significant 
problems related to the commuters, including high levels of delinquencies and repossessions and 
“between $10 million and $200 million of collateral exposure” that was not reflected by RAC’s 
accounting and restructuring methodologies, such as the practice of recognizing losses only upon 
a new sale or lease of the aircraft instead of upon return or repossession. 

       Between April and July 2000, Raytheon’s outside investment bankers provided the 
company with a series of valuation analyses for the commuter receivables in connection with the 
company’s efforts to sell RAC and/or its portfolio of commuter financing receivables to an 
outside buyer.  These analyses indicated that a sale of RACC’s portfolio of commuter 
receivables might generate losses of between $63 million and $622 million on a secured basis, 
depending on the underlying assumptions, and that the value of discounted cash flows on the 
portfolio was between $200 million and $273 million lower than the total loan balances, 
depending upon the underlying assumptions.  Given his involvement in   the effort to divest RAC 
and/or its commuter line, Burnham was aware that no buyer expressed a real interest in acquiring 
the commuter business in whole or in part. 

       In the Summer of 2000, a senior RAC executive told Burnham and a senior corporate 
financial officer of his significant concern about a problem with the commuters in the “half a 
billion dollar” range based on his view of the number of idle aircraft that were then in inventory 
and the substantial number of commuter returns that were forecasted at year-end.  Ultimately, 
Raytheon addressed this problem by transferring pension income to RAC to gradually build up 
commuter reserves. 

                      i.            Raytheon’s undisclosed transfers of pension income 

       In the third quarter of 2000, Raytheon began to allocate $14 million in surplus pension 
income to RAC each quarter, which was generated by an over-funded pension plan that had been 
retained when Raytheon divested another business unit.  As Raytheon’s CEO, Burnham was 
informed of and approved the transfers.  Servello and others were aware that the surplus pension-
related income was “to be used to help supplement reserves that we [at RAC] had on our 
books….  [W]e applied it to the booked reserves as a general reserve increase….”  In November 
2000, senior RAC executives were told to “[a]nticipate that the $14M per quarter coming from 

                                              12
---------------------Page 13---------------------

the ‘over[-]funded pension income is available indefinitely.’”  Thereafter, RAC personnel 
projected that they would continue to receive $14 million in pension-related income per quarter 
through at least 2004, which would enable the subsidiary to build up nearly $260 million in 
commuter reserves. 

       These surplus pension transfers were not disclosed in the company’s SEC filings because 
management viewed them as immaterial.  They, in fact, represented 24 to 353 percent of RAC’s 
reported quarterly operating income between the third quarter of 2000 and the second quarter of 
2001; eliminated the comparability of the segment’s current results with prior periods; 
represented 17 percent of RAC’s reported annual operating income in 2000; and failed to 
disclose a three-year decline in the segment’s annual operating income from $227 million in 
1998, to $163 million in 1999, to $136 million in 2000 (absent the pension income). 

                      ii.          Raytheon’s improper “pooling” of commuter aircraft 

       In the fourth quarter of 2000, at the direction of a senior corporate financial officer and 
others, RAC personnel (including Servello) instituted an improper “pooling” analysis when 
testing RAC’s on-balance sheet commuter assets for impairment under FAS 121.  This approach 
pooled aircraft on an aggregate basis, not on a plane-by-plane basis as required by GAAP, which 
enabled the company to use $45.7 million in “cushions” associated with low-book-value aircraft 
to off-set losses associated with higher-book-value aircraft.  Raytheon then used these “benefits” 
to lower the book values of its used 1900Bs and 1900Cs in small amounts at year-end 2000, and 
the company made no disclosure of the aircraft’s declining value.   

       In addition, even though the company’s “pooling” analysis suggested that RAC did not 
need reserves on the 1900s that were held for sale, the company kept $26.4 million in commuter 
reserves on RAC’s books and continued to transfer $14 million in excess pension-related income 
to the subsidiary each quarter on a going forward basis for continued increases to a “general 
commuter reserve,” which indicated that the anticipated losses associated with the 1900s were 
greater than the current level of reserves that had been established at RAC. 

                      iii.         Raytheon’s “soft landing” plan for the commuters 

       By late 2000, Burnham and other senior Raytheon and RAC officers were aware that 
“[m]arket forces ha[d] created a non-performing asset problem” with the 1900s.  Specifically, 
contemporaneous internal company documents show that, at December 31, 2000, RAC’s 
inventory of used commuters had increased to over 100 airplanes due to an exceptionally high 
number of commuter returns and repossessions at year-end, and RAC expected significant 
commuter returns in the years ahead. 

       During January 2001, in response to a perceived “market shift” concerning the 
commuters, RAC drafted a new “1900 Business Plan” intended to “steer[] to a ‘soft landing’ in 4 
years” by (i) further reducing the build rate for new 1900Ds to one plane per month (the 
minimum production rate that the subsidiary could sustain without incurring an operating loss); 
(ii) moving away from RAC’s historic commuter financing and leasing strategies to instead “sell 
1900B[s and] 1900Cs for cash” at prices that were “well below” existing book values; and (iii) 

                                              13
---------------------Page 14---------------------

building up RAC’s commuter reserves by at least an additional $240 million through the 
continued allocation of surplus pension-related income to facilitate such sales.   

       The new “reduced cash sale prices” were approved by senior Raytheon management 
(including Burnham and senior corporate financial officers) in early January 2001, and the plan 
projected that the revised “cash sale” values for the commuters would create at least $60 million 
in anticipated losses in 2001 alone.  These losses, however, were going to be charged against the 
reserves that were being built up at RAC through the transfers of surplus pension-related income 
and, thus, would not be reflected in Raytheon’s reported financial statements. 

       Servello and others at the company were also aware of the strategy to move to “cash 
sales,” including the effort to “maximiz[e] conversion of 1900Cs for cash” and use “gross 
margin generated by additional [commuter sales] to fund more sales.”  Consistent with the 
company’s new commuter business plan, by February 2001, RAC’s commuter sales force was 
instructed that “the operating lease program they had relied upon [in] the previous few years to 
place used commuters was gone….  In its place were new lower cash prices on 1900Cs and 
1900Ds plus an emphasis on cargo sales.” 

              f.           Raytheon’s inadequate disclosures in 2000 

       Raytheon did not make adequate disclosures of the negative, adverse, and material trends, 
uncertainties, risks, and other information described above related to RAC’s commuter 
operations and the subsidiary’s commuter line in the company’s SEC filings for 2000.  Raytheon 
also did not disclose in its SEC filings the transfer of surplus pension income to RAC or the 
improper testing of RAC’s on-balance sheet commuter assets on a “pooled” basis.  In addition, 
Raytheon did not disclose the “soft landing” plan for RAC’s commuter line, including the 
decision to emphasize cash sales at prices that were “well below” book values to address a 
perceived “market shift” in the commuter business. 

       Although Raytheon’s Forms 10-Q for the second and third quarter of 2000 did cite 
“pricing pressure on commuter aircraft” as one of the factors affecting RAC’s operating income, 
these disclosures did not adequately describe the substantial negative information concerning the 
commuters that was known to management at the time.  Similarly, Raytheon disclosed in its third 
quarter 2000 Form 10-Q that “a downturn in demand could have a material adverse effect on the 
company’s financial position or results of operations” and in its 2000 Form 10-K that the 
company would “continue to…watch for any indications of a downturn in demand for RAC’s 
aircraft,” but these disclosures incorrectly suggested that management was not yet aware of any 
such downturn in the commuter aircraft market or its severity. 

       Raytheon also made disclosures concerning the effect of overall market conditions in the 
forward-looking statements of the company’s SEC filings for 2000 that did not provide adequate 
information concerning the deteriorating state of the commuter aircraft market and the negative 
effect that this decline was having on RAC and commuter asset values.  For example, in its 2000 
Form 10-K, Raytheon included the forward-looking statement that the company’s “operating 
results may vary significantly over time for a variety of reasons, many of which are outside of 
our control,” such as “the impact on recourse obligations at Raytheon Aircraft due to changes in 
the collateral value of financed aircraft…[and] general economic conditions, particularly the 

                                              14
---------------------Page 15---------------------

cyclical nature of the general aviation…market[] in which we participate.”  These disclosures 
made no mention of “commuter” aircraft by name and did not reflect that the company was 
aware of significant losses related to RAC’s commuter assets and anticipating that these losses 
would continue to grow in the future. 

       In addition, Raytheon disclosed in other forward-looking statements in the company’s 
annual report that some of the “[i]mportant factors that could cause actual results to differ” were 
“the effect of market conditions, particularly in relation to the general aviation and commuter 
aircraft markets; [and] the impact on recourse obligations of Raytheon Aircraft due to changes in 
the collateral values of financed aircraft, particularly commuter aircraft,”  These statements were 
contrary to other disclosures in the footnotes to the company’s 2000 financial statements, which 
misleadingly stated that the company had a secure line of commuter financing receivables, that 
any liability resulting from the sale of commuter receivables into the revolving credit facility 
“will not have a material effect on the Company's financial position, or results of operations” 
given Raytheon’s “experience to date with resale activities and pricing and the Company’s plan 
to continue production into the foreseeable future,” and that “[n]o material gain or loss resulted 
from the sales of receivables in 2000, 1999, or 1998.”  These disclosures did not reflect a move 
to cash sales of commuter aircraft at prices that were well below book value, a significant 
reduction in the 1900D build rate, actual material commuter losses at RAC, and potential losses 
associated with the 1900 line in the hundreds of millions of dollars. 

       As Raytheon’s CEO, Burnham reviewed and approved the inaccurate filings and 
disclosures set forth above. 

              g.           Raytheon’s improper accounting in 2000 

       From the early 1990s and throughout 2000, RAC used an improper reserve practice 
known as the “Min/Max” analysis, which was a non-GAAP practice of considering RAC’s 
reserves in the aggregate and, thus, used over-accruals in some reserves to cover short-falls in 
others.  RAC’s process of maintaining excess reserves in some areas because they off-set short-
falls in reserves in other areas was not disclosed by Raytheon, was inconsistent with GAAP, and 
led to the keeping of inaccurate books, records, and accounts at the RAC segment.  For example, 
between 1998 and 2000, RAC’s excess reserves related to its parts business and general aviation 
aircraft, which were used to off-set under-accruals in other areas, such as those related to 
commuter receivables, totaled as much as $19.6 million and represented as much as 61 percent 
of the subsidiary’s total reserves. 

       In addition, as set forth above, the establishment of $56 million in additional commuter 
reserves through the transfer of surplus pension income to RAC between the third quarter of 
2000 and the second quarter of 2001 was inconsistent with GAAP.  No adequate 
contemporaneous documentation supported the amount of these commuter loss provisions, and 
the amount reserved corresponded only to the amount of the surplus pension income available.  
As Raytheon’s CEO, Burnham was informed of and approved these surplus pension-related 
transfers.  As RAC’s Deputy CFO and Controller, Servello was also aware of these transfers and 
their use to increase commuter reserves. 

                                               15
---------------------Page 16---------------------

       In 2000, Raytheon’s outside auditors also informed members of senior Raytheon and 
RAC management (including Servello) that it was “not appropriate” to pool commuter aircraft 
when testing for impairment under FAS 121 because they “d[id] not represent a large pool of 
homogenous assets.”  The auditors, therefore, posted a $12 million audit adjustment, which 
represented the supposed “benefit” that the company obtained through pooling.  Raytheon, with 
the knowledge of its auditors, did not book the adjustment because it was considered to be 
immaterial to the company’s consolidated financial results.  As Raytheon’s CEO, Burnham was 
aware of this decision.  The $12 million audit entry, however, represented approximately 7 
percent of RAC’s reported operating income for 2000 and, thus, was material to the financial 
results reported for that segment. 

       In 2000, Raytheon’s outside auditors further informed senior Raytheon and RAC 
executives (including Servello) that RAC “ha[d] not appropriately accounted for the gain or loss 
on notes sold to [the revolving credit facility]” or properly measured other components of the 
FAS 125 calculation and, thus, offered to sell RAC an improved FAS 125 model.  However, 
RAC took no substantive steps to comply with FAS 125 during the calendar year.  Instead, senior 
members of the Raytheon and RAC financial organizations “resist[ed]” the purchase of the new 
model, and, at year-end 2000, the outside auditors were still raising the issue of RAC’s failure to 
comply with FAS 125 with Raytheon.  While the company did adopt the new FAS 125 model 
advocated by its auditors before filing its 2000 Form 10-K, this model also failed to comply with 
GAAP.  Because much of the data serving as the inputs for this model was incomplete and 
inaccurate, the new FAS 125 model materially misestimated the amount of RAC’s various off-
balance sheet assets and liabilities.  Also, the new FAS 125 model calculated a $22 million 
overstatement related to prior period FAS 125 gains, but Raytheon did not make this audit entry 
because it was deemed immaterial to the company’s consolidated financial results.  As 
Raytheon’s CEO, Burnham was aware of the decision not to book this proposed adjustment.  
Such a charge, however, would have reduced RAC’s reported annual operating income for 2000 
by 13 percent (from $164 million to $142 million) and, thus, was material to the segment. 

       Finally, had senior Raytheon and RAC management timely recognized losses inherent in 
their planned “soft landing” of the commuter aircraft line, the company would have been 
required to take a charge of at least $67 million at year-end 2000, and contemporaneous internal 
company documents and other information indicate that Burnham, Servello, and other senior 
Raytheon and RAC officers were expecting commuter losses of $240 million given the cash 
sales prices that had been approved in the “soft landing.”  A charge of $67 million to $240 
million at year-end 2000 would have reduced RAC’s reported annual operating income by at 
least 41 to 146 percent and Raytheon’s 2000 profit before taxes by at least 8 to 27 percent. 

              h.          In 2001, Raytheon continued to be aware of the ongoing decline in the 
                     commuter market and wrote down these assets after September 11, 
                     2001 

       Throughout 2001, senior Raytheon executives continued to be aware of the ongoing 
decline of the commuter market and how this decline was creating serious operational issues at 
RAC, including substantial actual and anticipated losses associated with the 1900s on and off the 
company’s balance sheet. 

                                              16
---------------------Page 17---------------------

                      i.            The first and second quarters of 2001 

       In addition to moving to a cash sales strategy for the 1900s at prices that were 
significantly below the carrying value of the aircraft, in early 2001, Raytheon attempted to 
purchase risk insurance for the cash flows associated with the 1900D notes receivable in the 
company’s off-balance sheet commuter portfolio.  During these discussions, the insurer informed 
Raytheon that an independent appraiser had determined that the company was over-valuing these 
assets by roughly $220 million (approximately 20 percent above their actual market value). 

       In addition, during the first quarter of 2001, a senior corporate financial officer had the 
lead RAC auditor removed from the engagement due to that partner’s unwillingness to “ignore 
SEC and GAAP errors” at the officer’s insistence and the partner’s requests for consults on 
various accounting issues with his firm’s national office, which were resulting in adverse 
accounting treatments for the company. 

       By April 2001, Raytheon was aware that RAC had not sold any used commuters for cash 
under the “soft landing” plan during the first quarter and that recent offers for used 1900Cs were 
“in the $1.2M range,” which was “far below” the initial “cash sale” estimates of $2.2 million 
approved by management as part of the “soft landing.”  Raytheon was further aware that “each 
cash order looks like it will require a great deal of focus and effort to get the ball over the goal 
line.  Simply put, it’s harder to sell for cash, but…we knew this ‘going in.’”  In response to this 
statement, one senior Raytheon executive explained that $1.5 million was a “more realistic” 
price for these used aircraft and further emphasized the need to “raise cash” on these sales. 

       In June 2001, a RAC sales forecast informed a senior Raytheon financial officer and 
others that “[a] clear trend exists that prices will have to continue to be lowered to move 
inventory….  In order to get more cash sales in Q4, the price will have to be lowered to between 
$1.1 - $1.5 MM.  This could create accounting issues.”  Senior Raytheon financial officers were 
also informed that it would be necessary to “discount heavily” and offer 1900Cs at between $1.1 
million to $1.5 million in order to make sales for cash.  These officers were further informed that 
RAC’s 2001 sales forecast was “contingent” upon these values.  These transactions, however, 
were blocked by a senior corporate financial officer and others in the financial organization 
because “these deals could cause a write down of the entire portfolio and, as a result, we need to 
sell the airplanes at a higher value.”  As set forth in internal company documents, “[w]e cannot 
afford to change NRVs [the Net Realizable Values of the aircraft] below $2,500,000” due to the 
income statement repercussions for the company.  “Price integrity issues and limited reserves 
prevent us from lowering prices to meet a large portion of the market.  Market pricing will 
require additional reserves.” 

       In July 2001, the company’s investment bankers provided Raytheon with an update of 
earlier analyses of the company’s commuter portfolio.  This analysis indicated that, at the close 
of the second quarter, there was at least $113 million to $198 million in losses associated with 
the on- and off-balance sheet commuters given the difference between their book and assumed 
collateral values.  This analysis also indicated that the value of the discounted cash flows from 
the on- and off-balance sheet commuters were $431 million to $528 million below their total 
book values. 

                                               17
---------------------Page 18---------------------

       In August 2001, Raytheon convened a “commuter summit” at the company’s corporate 
headquarters to discuss the state of the commuter market and the negative effect this decline was 
having on RAC’s commuter business.  At this meeting, an outside consultant informed senior 
Raytheon and RAC management that “[c]ompetitive market pressures are intense.  Critically, 
they are not anticipated to ease anytime soon….  Turboprop aircraft orders have stagnated at 
best….  Only a handful of companies still operate 19-seat turboprops….  The prognosis for U.S. 
19-seat operators is not very good….”  Downward pricing pressure  is not anticipated to ease as 
the number of surplus 20 to 35 seat turboprop aircraft grows, making them more attractive as 19-
seat replacements….  With turboprop aircraft demand falling and supply raising, pricing must 
reflect basic market conditions not internal benchmarks.” 

       At this “commuter summit,” another outside consultant reported that estimates of fair 
market value for the commuters were, on average, $2 million below book value for the 1900Cs 
and $1.3 million below book value for the 1900Ds.  At the time, the company had over 130 
1900Cs and nearly 320 1900Ds on and off the balance sheet, making for an estimated exposure 
of approximately $676 million. 

                      ii.          Raytheon’s improper disclosures in the first and second 
                             quarters of 2001 

       Despite the substantial information that Raytheon possessed concerning the decline in 
RAC’s commuter aircraft business and the erosion of commuter asset values, the company’s first 
quarter 2001 Form 10-Q did not adequately disclose these adverse views of and developments in 
RAC’s commuter operations, including management’s decision to move from a leasing to a cash 
sales strategy for used commuters.  Instead, Raytheon’s disclosures in this filing discussed only 
“commercial” aircraft in general, which covered several other product lines in addition to the 
commuters.  Because these and other disclosures covered all of RAC’s “new and used” 
commercial aircraft, the company did not make adequate disclosure of the negative risks and 
trends related to the commuters that were known to senior management at the time. 

       Raytheon’s second quarter 2001 Form 10-Q, which was filed one week after the August 
2001 commuter summit, also did not adequately disclose the negative risks and trends associated 
with the company’s commuter aircraft.  For example, Raytheon only disclosed that RAC’s 
second quarter 2001 “[o]perating income was down primarily due to the lower sales volume and 
margin pressure on T-6A, Beechjet, and used aircraft due to the current market environment.  
During 2001, RAC experienced softness in orders for new and used commercial aircraft.  The 
Company remains concerned about the market outlook at RAC.  During the second quarter of 
2001, RAC responded to a softening market by announcing workforce reductions and 
adjustments in production rates.”  These disclosures made no specific mention of “commuter” 
aircraft and failed to adequately disclose the negative risks and trends concerning the commuters 
that were known to senior management at the time. 

       The only disclosure specifically referencing “commuters” in Raytheon’s second quarter 
2001 filing concerned “[t]he aging on RAC’s commuter customer financing receivables [which] 
has deteriorated over the past year.  Non-performance on these loans and leases, in the aggregate, 
could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity.”  At this time, senior Raytheon 
officers had been informed that there were hundreds of millions of dollars of actual and potential 

                                              18
---------------------Page 19---------------------

losses associated with these receivables based on the analyses that the company’s investment 
bankers had performed and the other information the company had received.  Thus, Raytheon 
failed to adequately disclose the significant declines in the commuter market, recent restructuring 
of several commuter customers to keep them from defaulting on their notes payable, and the 
substantial financial repercussions that would follow given the company’s recourse obligations 
to the bank facility. 

       In both its first and second quarter 2001 filings, Raytheon also made inadequate 
disclosures about the potential effect of market conditions in its forward-looking statements.  In 
particular, in both Forms 10-Q, Raytheon stated that of the many “[i]mportant factors that could 
cause actual results to differ” were “the effect of market conditions, particularly in relation to the 
general aviation and commuter aircraft markets; [and] the impact of recourse obligations of 
Raytheon Aircraft due to changes in the collateral values of financed aircraft, particularly 
commuter aircraft.”  These disclosures, however, failed to provide investors with sufficient 
information concerning the negative trends and risks associated with the commuters that were 
known by management at the time.  The inclusion of these disclosures in the company’s forward-
looking statements gave the inaccurate impression that Raytheon was not presently facing any 
risks associated with its on- and off-balance sheet commuter assets during these time periods. 

                      iii.         Raytheon’s equity offering 

       In early 2001, Raytheon turned to the equity markets to raise capital to pay down its debt.  
In April and May 2001, Raytheon filed a Form S-3 and prospectus supplements in connection 
with its $3 billion shelf registration and takedown of equity securities.  These filings contained 
materially misleading statements and omissions concerning the commuters because: 

               Raytheon’s Form S-3 incorporated prior filings by reference and thus 
       repeated the misleading statements from those periodic reports.  In addition, 
       Raytheon did not disclose the material and adverse trends and uncertainties that 
       were known to management at the time concerning the commuters.  The 
       company’s Form S-3 also incorporated by reference “any future filings made by 
       us…until we sell all of the securities.”  As alleged below, these future filings were 
       also misleading. 

               In addition, in the forward-looking statements, Raytheon made disclosures 
       about “regional aircraft” and “price pressures within the market” but did not 
       specifically reference commuters by name.  Similarly, Raytheon disclosed that “a 
       decline in demand in the market for our aircraft, would have an adverse effect, 
       which may be material, on our financial results,” but did not describe the 
       declining commuter market or RAC’s deteriorating commuter business.  
       Likewise, in other forward-looking statements, Raytheon disclosed that “[t]he 
       value of our securities may fluctuate as a result of considerations that are difficult 
       to forecast, such as…the impact on recourse obligations at Raytheon Aircraft 
       Company due to changes in the collateral value of financed aircraft…and general 
       economic conditions, particularly the cyclical nature of the general aviation and 
       other commercial markets in which we participate.”  Raytheon, however, did not 
       specifically mention the known risks posed by the deteriorating state of the 

                                               19
---------------------Page 20---------------------

       commuter market, RAC’s growing inventory of used commuter aircraft, or the 
       over-valued commuter financing receivables that were off the company’s balance 
       sheet.   

       As Raytheon’s CEO, Burnham reviewed and approved the inaccurate filings and 
disclosures set forth above. 

                      iv.         Raytheon’s improper accounting and disclosures in the third 
                             quarter of 2001 and at year-end 

       Although Raytheon was aware that its on- and off-balance sheet commuter assets were 
over-valued by hundreds of millions of dollars as of August 31, 2001, it was not until after the 
terrorist attacks on September 11th that the company began the process of a write down.  
However, much of the information which management used to estimate fair value for the 
commuters was “from three weeks earlier or four weeks earlier, in August of 2001….  [N]one of 
the publicly available data [used in the write-down analysis] were post-September 11th.”  Senior 
Raytheon financial officers also considered offers that RAC had received from commuter 
customers during “the most recent year,” even though these officers had previously refused to 
sell planes for these prices in July 2001 since “these deals could cause a write down of the entire 
portfolio….”  Also, a post-September 11th “top down, market study” upon which Burnham and a 
senior Raytheon financial officer relied to support the final charge estimated that there was $400 
million to $500 million in pre-existing exposure on the commuters as of July 2001.  This amount 
represented roughly 60 to 70 percent of the $693 million charge that was ultimately taken by the 
company.  As the Vice President of Investor Relations informed senior management near 
completion of the write down, a survey of buy- and sell-side analysts prior to the upcoming 
earnings call indicated that “defense companies get a free pass this quarter” given recent events.  
These analysts were further “expecting a $400-500 million charge” on the commuters, and they 
would be “irritated” with the company “if we do not take this opportunity to adjust these values.” 

       Thus, in the third quarter of 2001, Raytheon stated that it had taken a $693 million loss 
provision related to RAC’s commuter aircraft as “a result of continued weakness in the 
commuter aircraft market and the impact of the events of September 11, 2001.”  This misleading 
statement was repeated in substance in the company’s 2001 Form 10-K.  Given the charge that 
the company should have taken at year-end 2000 to properly account for RAC’s on- and off-
balance sheet commuter assets and the $240 million in commuter reserves that the company 
planned to build to cover anticipated losses, the $693 million commuter loss provision that 
Raytheon took in the third quarter of 2001 was materially overstated by at least 10 to 53 percent. 

       Raytheon also did not disclose that its third quarter 2001 commuter loss provision was 
largely determined by implementing for the first time a market-based measure of portfolio loss 
under FAS 140, the successor to FAS 125.  Contrary to its public disclosures, the company had 
previously been calculating its recourse liability obligations on the commuter receivables sold 
into the credit facility through a pooled, probable loss analysis.  In addition, Raytheon did not 
disclose that certain “excess” non-commuter reserves, such as those related to RAC’s parts 
business and general aviation aircraft, which had previously been used in the Min/Max analysis 
to off-set under-accruals on the commuters, were not written off in the third quarter of 2001.  
Instead, these reserves were retained by the company for their original, specified purposes, 

                                               20
---------------------Page 21---------------------

indicating that they should not have been used to off-set deficiencies in the commuter reserves in 
prior periods. 

       As Raytheon’s CEO, Burnham reviewed and approved the inaccurate filings and 
disclosures described above. 

       3.           The Impact of Raytheon’s Improper Accounting and Disclosure Practices 

       As a result of the improper disclosure and accounting practices described above, 
Raytheon filed at least fifteen quarterly reports, five annual reports, and four registration 
statements and prospectus supplements that contained materially false and misleading 
disclosures and financial statements. 

D. LEGAL ANALYSIS 

       Section 17(a)(2) of the Securities Act prohibits a person from obtaining money or 
property by means of any untrue statement of a material fact or any misleading omission of 
material fact in the offer or sale of securities.  See 15 U.S.C. § 77q(a)(2).  Section 17(a)(3) of the 
Securities Act prohibits a person from engaging in any transaction, practice, or course of 
business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon the purchaser in the offer or 
sale of securities.  See 15 U.S.C. § 77q(a)(3).  Information is material where there is a substantial 
likelihood that a reasonable investor would consider the information important in making an 
investment decision.  See Basic Inc. v. Levinson , 485 U.S. 224, 231-32 (1988).  Establishing a 
violation of Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) does not require a showing of scienter.                                           See Aaron v. SEC, 
446 U.S. 680, 701-02 (1980). 
        
       Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 require 
issuers with securities registered under Section 12 to file annual, quarterly, and other reports with 
the Commission.  The obligation to file such reports embodies the requirement that they be true 
and correct.  See, e.g., SEC v. Savoy Indus., Inc., 587 F.2d 1149, 1165 (D.C. Cir. 1978), cert. 
denied, 440 U.S. 913 (1979).  Rule 12b-20 further requires the inclusion of any additional 
material information that is necessary to make required statements, in light of the circumstances 
under which they were made, not misleading.  Information regarding the financial condition of a 
company is presumptively material.  SEC v. Blavin, 760 F.2d 706, 711 (6th Cir. 1985).  No 
showing of scienter is necessary to establish a violation of Section 13(a) or Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 
and 13a-13.  See, e.g., Savoy, 587 F.2d at 1167.  Additionally, Item 303 of Regulation S-K 
requires registrants to disclose “any known trends or uncertainties that have had or that the 
registrant reasonably expects will have a material … unfavorable impact on  net sales or revenues 
or income from continuing operations.”  17 C.F.R. § 229.303(a)(3)(ii).  The failure to comply 
with Regulation S-K constitutes a violation of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. 

       Raytheon violated Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act and Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder.  As described above, between 
1997 and 2001, Raytheon filed false and misleading periodic reports with the Commission that 
contained inadequate disclosures and inaccurate financial statements, which materially misstated 
the company’s and RAC’s results of operations.  Between 1997 and late 1999, Raytheon failed to 
disclose the improper bill and hold accounting practices that were occurring at RAC, including 

                                               21
---------------------Page 22---------------------

that such transactions did not comply with GAAP and were resulting in material overstatements 
of the subsidiary’s reported operating results.  Between 1997 and 2001, contrary to Item 303 of 
Regulation S-K, Raytheon failed to fully disclose in its periodic reports material trends and 
uncertainties associated with the deteriorating state of RAC’s commuter aircraft business.  
Raytheon also failed to make full and complete disclosure concerning its implementation of and 
compliance with FAS 125, its establishment of $15 million in commuter reserves at year-end 
1997, and the company’s practice in 1998 and 1999 of creating reserves at RAC that were equal 
to any FAS 125 gains recognized on the sale of commuter receivables.  In 2000 and 2001, 
Raytheon failed to disclose the deteriorating commuter aircraft market, RAC’s declining 
commuter business, the increasing number of commuter returns, the quarterly transfers of 
“surplus” pension-related income to RAC, the non-GAAP “pooling” analysis used to test 
commuter aircraft for impairment, and the components of the “soft landing” plan, such as the 
reduced cash sale prices for used commuter aircraft and the substantial reduction of the 
production rate for new 1900Ds.  Finally, Raytheon filed at least four registration statements and 
prospectus supplements between 1997 and 2001, which incorporated by reference the inadequate 
disclosures and inaccurate financial statements contained in the periodic reports identified above. 

       Burnham violated Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act and caused certain of 
Raytheon’s violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as well as Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 
13a-13 thereunder, through conduct in 2000 and 2001.  As described above, as Raytheon’s CEO, 
Burnham (i) failed to make or ensure full, accurate, and adequate disclosure of the known trends 
and uncertainties associated with the company’s commuter line in Raytheon’s public filings for 
2000 and 2001, such as the deteriorating state of RAC’s commuter business and the various 
means that the company was taking to address this problem; (ii) failed to ensure that Raytheon 
properly accounted for the resulting commuter losses that were known and anticipated by 
management during 2000 and 2001, which led to material misstatements of the company’s 
reported results on both a segment on consolidated basis; and (iii) through such conduct, caused 
Raytheon’s filing of at least six quarterly reports, two annual reports on Forms 10-Q and 10-K, 
and two sets of registration statements and prospectus supplements for May 2001 and October 
2001 offerings that contained inadequate disclosures and inaccurate financial statements.   

       Servello caused certain of Raytheon’s violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act 
and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder.  As a result of the actions described above, as 
RAC’s Deputy CFO and Controller during 2000, Servello knew or should have known that RAC 
was not properly accounting for its commuter assets and the mounting losses associated with 
them.  During this time, Servello was also aware that RAC’s financial results were flowing 
through to the company’s publicly filed quarterly and annual reports. 

       Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires Section 12 registrants to make and 
keep books, records and accounts that accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of their assets.  Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires such registrants to 
devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable 
assurances that, among other things, transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation 
of financial statements in conformity with GAAP and to maintain the accountability of assets.  
Rule 13b2-1 prohibits the falsification of any book, record, or account subject to Section 
13(b)(2)(A).  No showing of scienter is necessary to establish violations of these provisions.  See 
SEC v. McNulty, No. 94 CIV. 7114 (MBM), 1996 WL 422259, at *7 (S.D.N.Y. July 29, 1996). 

                                               22
---------------------Page 23---------------------

       Raytheon violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) and (B) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-1 
thereunder through the conduct described above.  Between 1997 and late 1999, Raytheon and 
RAC kept materially inaccurate books, records and accounts, and failed to maintain adequate 
internal controls related to RAC’s bill and hold practices during this four-year time period.  
Between 1997 and 2001, Raytheon kept materially inaccurate books, records and accounts 
concerning RAC’s commuter aircraft that (i) did not maintain individual commuter loss and 
liability accounts at levels that were consistent with available evidence concerning these 
contingencies or management’s knowledge about the declining value of these assets; (ii) did not 
record repossessed or returned commuter aircraft at their fair market value; (iii) through 
improper “pooling” analysis, impermissibly grouped non-homogenous collections of used 
commuter aircraft for assessment of net realizable value in 2000 and 2001, so that individual 
units were not reduced to the lower of cost or market; (iv) did not timely or properly record in 
accordance with GAAP the assets and liabilities associated with its off balance sheet portfolio of 
commuter financing receivables between 1997 and mid-2001; (v) used reserves established for 
the commuter assets between 1997 and 2001 in contravention of GAAP; and (vi) established 
additional commuter reserves at RAC in 2000 and 2001 through the use of “surplus” pension-
related income in a manner that was inconsistent with GAAP, and (vii) did not properly reflect 
losses inherent in a planned “soft landing” of the commuter line.  Finally, between 1997 and 
2001, Raytheon failed to maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls related to 
the proper measurement and recording of commuter asset values and reserve levels, the testing of 
commuter assets for recoverability and impairment, and the estimation of their fair value for 
purposes of measuring impairments and loss contingencies. 

       Burnham caused certain of Raytheon’s violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder.  As described above, during 2000 
and 2001, he failed to ensure that the company’s commuter assets and liabilities were properly 
recorded in the company’s books and records.  He also failed to design and maintain an adequate 
system of internal controls to ensure that the company properly measured its commuter assets 
and liabilities.   

       Servello caused certain of Raytheon’s violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) 
of the Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder.  As RAC’s Deputy CFO and Controller during 
2000, he failed to ensure that the subsidiary’s commuter assets and liabilities were properly 
accounted for in the company’s books and records.  He also failed to design and maintain an 
adequate system of internal controls to ensure that Raytheon was properly measuring its 
commuter assets and liabilities.  

       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that:  (i) Raytheon violated Sections 
17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act and Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the 
Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-13 and 13b2-1 thereunder; (ii) Burnham violated 
Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act, and caused certain of Raytheon’s violations of 
Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act as well as Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 
13a-13 and 13b2-1 thereunder; and (iii) Servello caused certain of Raytheon’s violations of 
Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-
13 and 13b2-1 thereunder. 

                                              23
---------------------Page 24---------------------

                                                     IV. 

        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that : 
 
        A. Respondent Raytheon cea           se and desist from committing or causing any violations 
and any future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act, Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-13, and 13b2-1 
thereunder;  
         
        B.          Respondent Burnham cease and desist from committing or causing any violations 
and any future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act and from causing any 
violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange 
Act, and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-13, and 13b2-1 thereunder; and 
         
        C. Respondent Servello ceas          e and desist from causing any violations and any future 
violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-20, 
13a-1, 13a-13, and 13b2-1 thereunder. 
 
 
              By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
                     Secretary 

 
 
 

                                                     24
