---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                STATES OF AMERICA 
 
                                          Before the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 9095 / December 17, 2009 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 61194 / December 17, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3085 / December 17, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-13723 
 
                                                ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC  
In the Matter of                                ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-AND-
                                                DESIST PROCEEDINGS, PURSUANT TO 
       JOHN M. KISS, CPA,                       SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT 
                                                OF 1933, SECTIONS 4C AND 21C OF THE  
Respondent.                                     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, 
                                                AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                                MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                                REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-
                                                AND-DESIST ORDER  
  
                                              I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, 
instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Sections 4C1
                                                                                           and 
21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the   
Commission’s Rules of Practice 2 
                                 against John M. Kiss (“Kiss” or “Respondent”).   
                                                 
1 
 Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:                            
 
       The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the privilege                       
of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way,  if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the   
requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be   lacking in character or integrity, or to have engaged in  
unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have   willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the 
violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.   
 
2 
 Rule 102(e)(1) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
       The Commission may censure a person or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or   
       practicing before it . . . to any person who is found…   
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                   
                                                 II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Kiss has submitted an Offer of  
Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose 
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are  
admitted, Kiss consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative and Cease-and-
Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933, Sections 4C and 21C of  
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and Rule  102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice,  
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as  
set forth below.  
 
                                                III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Kiss’ Offer, the Commission finds  3
                                                                           that:  
 
                                             Summary  
 
       1.      This matter involves violations of the federal securities laws by Kiss in 
connection with the 2001 and 2002 audits of Bally Total Fitness Holding Corporation (“Bally”) 
conducted by Ernst & Young LLP (“E&Y”) while Kiss served as the engagement partner on 
those audits.  Kiss was the engagement partner on E&Y's audits of Bally from 1996 through and 
including 2002. 
        
       2.      In connection with Bally’s 2001-2002 financial statements, Bally engaged in 
fraudulent financial accounting, including prematurely recognizing revenue and improperly 
deferring costs, which overstated income and inflated stockholders’ equity.  Bally also made 
false and misleading disclosures regarding a $55  million special charge in its 2002 Form 10-K.  
On November 30, 2005, Bally filed its 2004 Form 10-K, which restated its previously reported 
financial statements for 2002 and 2003, and selected financial data for 2000 and 2001.   
 
       3.      Kiss knew or should have known that E&Y's unqualified audit opinions regarding 
Bally’s 2001-2002 financial statements -- which stated that E&Y had conducted its audits in 
accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States (“GAAS”) and that 
Bally’s financial statements were presented in conformity with accounting principles generally 
accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) -- were false because E&Y’s audits of Bally’s financial 
                                                                                                                                                             
        
                                                    * * * 
                                                       
               (iii) to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of any provision of the  
               Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.  
        
3 
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other    
person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   
                                                 2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

statements were not performed in accordance with GAAS and Bally’s financial statements were 
not presented in conformity with GAAP.   
        
       4.      As a result of the false and misleading audit opinions, Kiss was a cause of Bally’s 
violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act, and was a cause of and willfully4 
                                                                                                
aided and abetted Bally’s violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and 
Exchange Act Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13.  Kiss also was a cause of E&Y’s 
violation of Section 10A(b) of the Exchange Act by not bringing to the attention of Bally’s Audit 
Committee Bally’s false and misleading disclosures of the $55 million special charge.    
 
                                           Respondent  
 
       5.      Kiss is, and was at all relevant times, a Certified Public Accountant licensed in 
Illinois.  He worked in the Chicago office of E&Y during the relevant period and was the  
engagement partner in charge of E&Y’s audits of Bally from 1996 through and including 2002.  
Kiss retired from E&Y in January 2008.   
 
                                              Issuer  
 
       6.      Bally Total Fitness Holding Corporation, a Delaware corporation, purported to be 
the largest, and only nationwide, commercial operator of fitness centers.  At all relevant times, 
Bally's common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the 
Exchange Act and traded on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”).  The NYSE delisted 
Bally's common stock on June 8, 2007.  After filing for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the 
Bankruptcy Code, on September 17, 2007, Bally emerged as a privately held reorganized entity.  
On February 28, 2008, the Commission filed a settled injunctive action against Bally in the 
United States District Court for the District of Columbia, charging Bally with violating 
Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the 
Exchange Act, and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder.  The District 
Court issued permanent injunctions on May 8, 2008.      
  
                                           Background  
 
       7.      For many years up until it resigned in 2004, E&Y audited Bally’s financial 
statements.  Bally’s principal source of revenue was selling gym membership contracts, which  
provided customers access to gyms in exchange for the payment of both a one-time initiation fee 
and monthly dues.  The one-time fee was typically several thousand dollars, while the monthly 
dues typically were less than $10 per month.  Most of Bally’s customers financed their initiation 
fees.  To maintain their memberships, customers were required to pay their initiation fee in full 
and pay monthly dues.  The initiation fees were Bally’s biggest source of revenue.  The 
obligation to pay the initiation fee was legally enforceable; there was no legal obligation to pay 
monthly dues beyond the initial contract period.   
                                                 
4 
 A willful violation of the securities laws means merely “‘                   that the person charged with the duty knows what he is   
doing.’”  Wonsover v. SEC    , 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000) (quoting Hughes v. SEC   , 174 F.2d 969, 977 (D.C.  
Cir. 1949)).  
                                                3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
       8.     E&Y recognized Bally as a risky audit and, from at least 1996 through 2003, 
designated Bally as a “close monitoring” account because Bally presented a risk that created “a 
significant chance the firm [E&Y] will suffer damage to its reputation, monetarily, or both.”  
Bally was designated a close monitoring account for several reasons, including, among other 
things, that Bally’s managers were former E&Y audit partners who were “difficult” and had 
“historically been aggressive in selecting accounting principles and determining estimates;” the 
managers placed undue emphasis on maintaining stock prices; management used 
“(un)reliable . . . estimation process[es] or questionable judgments;" and Bally’s compensation 
plans placed undue emphasis on reported earnings.  E&Y's internal guidance notes that a "history 
of 'aggressive' applications of accounting policies could indicate a predisposition to misstate the 
financial statements." 
 
       9.     In early 2002, E&Y sought to reduce its risk by identifying its riskiest clients and 
resigning from them or otherwise managing the risk they presented to E&Y.  Out of a total of  
over 10,000 audit clients in North America, E&Y identified Bally as one of the riskiest 18 
accounts.  These 18 accounts were so-called “National Focus Accounts” and were monitored by 
the Americas Executive Board.  Not only was Bally identified as a National Focus Account, it 
was identified as the riskiest account in E&Y’s Lake Michigan Area.   
 
                   Bally’s Accounting Errors And E&Y’s Audit Failures
  
                           Relating To Fiscal Years 2001 And 2002
  
                                                 
       10.    In connection with fiscal years 2001 and 2002, as well as earlier years, Bally 
engaged in certain accounting practices relating to its recognition of reactivation revenue, 
initiation fee revenue, and deferred costs that made its financial statements false and misleading.  
E&Y issued unqualified audit opinions, in violation of GAAS, in connection with its audits of 
such financial statements.  

                           Premature Recognition Of Reactivation Revenues  

       11.    Bally recognized revenue from what it called “reactivations,” which were 
payments from Bally members who had completed their initial contract period, but whose 
memberships were canceled for failure to pay the monthly dues necessary to maintain their 
membership.  Bally did not attempt to recover those dues because there was no legal obligation 
to pay dues.  Accordingly, for those canceled members who had completed the initial contract 
period, Bally waited at least six months after receiving their last payment and then began 
soliciting these canceled members to reactivate.  Those who accepted the reactivation offers did 
so, on average, 36 months after having stopped paying monthly dues.  The reactivation offers did 
not contain claims for or seek payment of "past due" amounts.  Instead, they asked for either a 
nominal reactivation fee or no reactivation fee at all, and the payment of monthly dues for a 
period of future service. 

       12.    Bally’s reactivation revenue recognition policy was to project (as of the balance 
sheet date) the reactivation payments it anticipated receiving in the coming year and then 
immediately recognize most of these projected payments by improperly allocating them to past 
                                               4
  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

periods.  Bally’s reactivation revenue recognition policy was not in conformity with GAAP 
because use of the method enabled Bally to recognize revenue before it was earned and was 
realized or realizable.5
                        Bally recognized revenue before it was earned because, among other 
things, it barred canceled former members from the gyms, and therefore, had not provided 
services to those of its canceled members who might reactivate in the future.  Additionally, Bally 
recognized revenue before it was realized or realizable because it was recognizing revenue for 
reactivations that had not yet occurred, which it anticipated from canceled former members 
whom it could not identify individually and who had no legal obligation to reactivate or pay 
Bally anything at all. 

       13.     In short, Bally violated GAAP by recognizing revenue related to the anticipated 
future payments before the reactivation transactions occurred.  The accounting was clearly not in 
conformity with GAAP, and a reasonable accountant who understood Bally's accrual basis of 
recognizing revenue for "reactivations" would conclude that it was not in conformity with 
GAAP, because Bally was recognizing revenue that was not realized or realizable, and had not 
been earned.  

       14.     For at least six years, E&Y had audited Bally's "reactivation" revenue recognition 
practices.  In each of those years, E&Y provided Bally with an unqualified audit opinion. 

       15.     Kiss knew or should have known that Bally’s accounting policy for reactivation 
revenues was not in conformity with GAAP, yet he caused E&Y to issue unqualified opinions 
regarding Bally’s 2001 and 2002 financial statements in violation of GAAS.    6 
                                                                                  

                        Premature Recognition Of Initiation Fee Revenue  
                                                   
       16.     Members paid a substantial initiation fee in connection with new membership 
contracts.  Beginning in 1997, Bally recognized initiation fee revenue over the estimated average 
membership life, which included an estimate for both the average initial contract period and the 
average renewal period.  Bally computed the weighted average expected membership life to be 
22 months for financed memberships and 36 months for cash memberships. 
 
       17.     Bally’s 1997 computations of the weighted average expected membership life 
were flawed.  A cursory inspection of the computations would have revealed these flaws.  In 
1997, E&Y had checked Bally’s arithmetic and suggested some minor adjustments, but had 
failed to test whether Bally's computations produced results that were consistent with reality, and 
failed to determine that Bally’s computation was fundamentally incorrect.  The errors in Bally’s 
estimates had the effect of understating the average membership life.  As a result, Bally’s 
                                                 
5 
 See, e.g., Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43, Restatement and Revision of Accounting Research Bulletins                               
("ARB 43"), Chapter 1A (1953); Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 10, Omnibus Opinion (1966); Statement                                           
of Financial Accounting Concepts No. 5,       Recognition and Measurement in Financial Statements of Business  
Enterprises (1985); Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101,          Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements, Topic 13.A. 
(1999)(“SAB 101”). 
 
6 
 See AICPA’s Codification of Auditing Standards AU § 508,                     Reports on Audited Financial Statements                   , (“AU § 
508”).  
                                                 5
  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

member life estimates improperly accelerated revenue recognition and distorted the economic 
reality of Bally’s business. 
 
       18.     These errors continued through the relevant period.  Kiss knew or should have 
known that by recognizing initiation fee revenue from financed contracts over 22 months, Bally 
was improperly recognizing revenue before it was earned and realized or realizable in 
contravention of GAAP, yet he caused E&Y to issue unqualified opinions regarding Bally’s 
2001 and 2002 financial statements in violation of GAAS.   
 
                             Deferral Of Member Acquisition Costs  
                                                  
       19.     Bally deferred certain of its costs associated with acquiring new members and 
recognized such costs over the same period that it deferred initiation fee revenue.   

       20.     GAAP requires that any costs deferred must be direct and incremental to the 
acquisition of a new contract or activities directly related to such acquisitions (i.e., they would 
not have been incurred “but for” the acquisition of the contract).  Costs associated with acquiring 
new members are properly deferrable to the extent that they were direct and incremental to the 
acquisition of a new member contract, while all other costs must be expensed as incurred.  7 
                                                                                              
Bally, however, improperly deferred certain costs that were not eligible for deferral.   

       21.     Kiss knew or should have known that Bally was improperly deferring certain 
member acquisition costs; nonetheless, he caused E&Y to issue unqualified opinions regarding 
Bally’s 2001 and 2002 financial statements in violation of GAAS. 

                                                  
       E&Y’s Audits Were Deficient And Not Performed In Accordance With GAAS  

       22.     E&Y’s audits of Bally’s reactivation revenues, initiation fee revenues and 
deferred acquisition costs were deficient and not performed in accordance with GAAS.  As an 
initial matter, Kiss knew that Bally was a risky client due to, among other things, management’s 
aggressive accounting policies.  On the client continuance forms, Kiss repeatedly identified 
aggressive accounting by Bally's management as one of the principal reasons for Bally's 
riskiness.  In 1997, he wrote:  "Management has a history of being aggressive from an 
accounting standpoint."  As part of the client continuance process in 1998, he wrote that he 
wanted to discuss with E&Y management, inter alia, Bally's "aggressive [management]."   
 
       23.     In response to a request for an "[e]xplanation of risk factors," Kiss wrote in 1999, 
"There are a number of former EY employees at the Company.  The CEO and CFO have 
historically taken some aggressive accounting positions."  In 2000, Kiss’ "explanation of risk 
factors" provided, in relevant part:  "Management is very focused on meeting or beating the 

                                                 
7 
 See Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 91, Accounting for Nonrefundable Fees and Costs 
Associated with Originating or Acquiring Loans and Initial Direct Costs of Leases,                                                                        (Dec. 1986); FASB Technical 
Bulletin No. 90-1, Accounting for Separately Priced Extended Warranty and Product Maintenance Contracts,                              (Dec. 
1990); and SAB 101, Topic 13.A.  
                                                 6
  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

Street's EPS.  This at times leads to aggressive accounting practices."  In 2001, Kiss explained, 
"management tends to be aggressive in their accounting."  
 
       24.     From at least 1996, E&Y annually identified Bally as a "close-monitoring" 
account.  Each year, E&Y's partners and management assessed the level of risk presented by 
each of its audit clients, including Bally, as part of E&Y's "client continuance process."  Higher 
risk accounts were denominated "close-monitoring accounts."   

       25.     E&Y prepared, and Kiss read and concurred in, a memorandum in connection 
with the FY 2000 audit, which concluded, improperly, that Bally’s reactivation revenue accrual 
“does not appear to be precluded by SAB 101.”  The memorandum indicated that (a) members 
who did not pay dues after the initial contract period were barred from the gyms after a grace 
period, and (b) these members had no legally enforceable obligation to pay dues after the initial 
contract period or to reactivate their memberships.  Kiss knew or should have known that these 
facts undermined and contradicted the conclusion that the reactivation accrual “does not appear 
to be precluded by SAB 101.”  In concluding that Bally’s reactivation revenue policy was in 
conformity with GAAP, Kiss failed to reasonably assess whether Bally’s financial statements 
were presented in conformity with GAAP, as required by GAAS. 

       26.     Initiation fee revenue was the largest component of Bally’s revenue.  In 1997, 
Bally had committed to the Commission staff that the company would periodically update its 
member life estimates.  Contrary to that commitment, Bally failed to update its member life  
estimates throughout the period that Kiss remained as engagement partner.    

       27.     Kiss knew of Bally’s failure to keep that commitment.  In letters to Bally's  
management, E&Y formally requested Bally to update its member life computations in 1998, 
2001, and 2002, but Bally never did so.  In response to the 2001 request, Bally asserted that the 
1997 calculations were still “an appropriate approximation of the current historical average 
membership length” because the original calculation constituted a “35-year historical average.”  
In fact, the 1997 calculation did not constitute a 35-year historical average, but reflected an 
average from a much smaller pool of data.  Kiss knew or should have known that Bally’s 
representations regarding the 1997 calculation were false and should not have been relied on as 
persuasive evidence supporting its opinion.8 
                                               

       28.     E&Y and Kiss failed to perform adequate audit procedures with regard to the 
renewal period estimate and the resulting amortization period.9
                                                                 Rather, E&Y simply carried 
forward the 1997 estimates pertaining to the average renewal period.  Given the critical nature of 
this accounting estimate, Kiss’ failure to obtain from the Company an update or to arrive at its 
own independent estimate constitutes a departure from GAAS. 

                                                 
8 
 See  AU § 230, Due Professional Care         ; AU § 326,  Evidential Matter (“AU § 326”); AU § 333A,   Management 
Representations. 
  
9 
 See  AU § 342, Auditing Accounting Estimates          .  
                                                7
  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

       29.    Kiss also knew or should have known of Bally’s arbitrary and unsupported 
allocation of various costs to the deferred member acquisition cost pool, but failed to perform  
adequate audit procedures with regard to those deferred member acquisition costs.   

       30.    Kiss knew or should have known that Bally’s 2001 and 2002 financial statements 
were not presented in conformity with GAAP, but he failed to qualify the audit opinion or issue 
an adverse opinion as required by GAAS.   

                               E&Y Seeks To Reduce Its Risk  
                                                 
       31.     In 2001 and 2002, a series of widely-known financial scandals led E&Y to assess 
its audit risks and the firm took steps to identify and resign from or focus on certain of its riskiest 
clients.  Internally, E&Y was communicating the dangers of retaining high risk clients, but even 
though E&Y identified Bally as one of its riskiest clients during the 2002 client continuance 
process, E&Y did not resign from Bally.  Instead, E&Y tried to reduce the risk that Bally’s 
accounting practices posed to E&Y by, among other things, insisting for the first time that Bally 
record the numerous accounting errors that had “historically been [placed by E&Y] on the 
summary of audit differences.” 

       32.     From July 2002 through March 2003, E&Y, including Kiss, had numerous 
internal communications and meetings regarding the risks posed by Bally generally, as well as 
particular risky accounting issues, including, among other things, Bally’s revenue recognition 
estimates.  Bally was the subject of a series of meetings with E&Y management, and Bally was 
placed on a list of National Focus Accounts for Americas Executive Board attention.    

                          Bally’s False And Misleading Disclosures
  
                    Regarding A $55 Million Charge In Fiscal Year 2002
  
 
       33.    As of 2002, Bally’s allowance for doubtful accounts (“ADA”) had long been on 
E&Y’s list of concerns regarding aggressive accounting.  Bally’s estimate of the ADA was 
another area in which Bally's management’s estimates appeared aggressive.  Year in and year 
out, from 1997 through 2002, Bally consistently used a 41% reserve rate, despite changes in the 
economy and in market conditions.  The resulting ADA was always at the low end of the range 
that E&Y had deemed to be reasonable.   

       34.    During the third quarter of 2002, Kiss and others at E&Y determined that Bally’s 
collections had deteriorated substantially, and they advised Bally that it needed to increase its 
ADA in order to cover the shortfall resulting from the deteriorating collections.  Bally insisted 
that no change be made to the ADA until the fourth quarter to allow it time to obtain waivers of 
debt covenants provisions from Bally’s lenders.   

       35.    During the fourth quarter of 2002, Bally agreed to increase its ADA by 
$55 million and ultimately presented it as a “special charge” in Bally’s year-end financial 
statements.  In its 2002 Form 10-K, including in the notes to the financial statements, Bally made 
false and misleading disclosures regarding the reasons for the charge, and Kiss knew or should 
have known that the disclosures were improper.  The reason for the charge cited in the 
                                               8
  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

Form 10-K was that Bally’s estimation was based on an accelerated monetization scenario which 
would result in collecting less than book value.  No mention was made of the deterioration of the 
collectability of Bally’s accounts receivable portfolio, which had been identified by E&Y as 
requiring Bally to take a charge. 

       36.     The $55 million special charge virtually eliminated Bally's 2002 earnings. Kiss 
knew or should have known that Bally’s disclosures failed to disclose accurately the reasons for 
the “special charge,” yet he did not object and he caused E&Y to issue an unqualified audit 
opinion upon Bally's 2002 financial statements in violation of GAAS.  10
                                                                         Kiss also failed to cause 
E&Y to inform Bally’s Audit Committee about Bally’s false and misleading disclosures, and no 
such information was provided to Bally's Audit Committee.   

                                           Violations  
                                                  
       37.     Section 17(a)(2) of the Securities Act prohibits obtaining money or property by 
means of untrue statements of material fact or misleading omissions of material fact in the offer 
or sale of securities.  Section 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act prohibits engaging in transactions, 
practices or courses of business which operate or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon the 
purchaser in the offer or sale of securities.  Information is material where there is a substantial 
likelihood that a reasonable investor would consider the information important in making an 
investment decision.  Basic, Inc. v. Levinson, 485 U.S. 224, 231-32 (1988).  Establishing 
violations of Section 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) does not require a showing of scienter.  Aaron v. SEC, 
446 U.S. 680, 697 (1980). 
 
       38.     Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 
thereunder require all issuers with securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act to 
file annual, quarterly and current reports on Form 10-K, Form 8-K and Form10-Q respectively.  
Exchange Act Rule 12b-20 further requires that, in addition to the information expressly required 
to be included in such reports, the issuer must include such additional material information as  
may be necessary to make the required statements, in light of the circumstances under which 
they were made, not misleading.  The obligation to file these periodic reports includes the 
obligation that they be complete and accurate in all material respects.  See, e.g., SEC v. IMC 
Int’l, Inc., 384 F. Supp. 889, 893 (N.D. Tex.), aff’d mem., 505 F.2d 733 (5th
                                                                             Cir. 1974).  No 
showing of scienter is necessary to establish a violation of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and 
Rules 13a-1, 13a-11, 13a-13 and 12b-20.  See SEC v. McNulty, 137 F.3d 732, 740-741 (2d Cir. 
1998). 
 
       39.     Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to “make and keep 
books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the issuer.”   
 
       40.     Bally violated Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act and Sections 13(a) 
and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder by, 
among other things, prematurely recognizing income and improperly deferring costs which 
                                                 
10 
  See  AU § 431, Adequacy of Disclosure in Financial Statements                                ; AU § 508. 
                                                9
  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

resulted in its books and records being false, failing to maintain accurate books and records and 
including material false and misleading financial statements and information in annual, quarterly 
and current reports filed with the Commission in connection with fiscal years 2001 and 2002. 
        
       41.    Kiss was a cause of and/or aided and abetted Bally’s violations.  For each of the 
years 2001-2002, Kiss was a cause of E&Y issuing audit reports containing unqualified opinions 
stating that E&Y had conducted an audit of the company’s annual financial statements in 
accordance with GAAS and that Bally’s financial statements were presented in conformity with 
GAAP.  These audit reports were included in Bally’s Forms 10-K for 2001-2002.  However, Kiss 
knew or should have known that E&Y’s audit reports were false and misleading because E&Y 
failed to conduct its audits in accordance with GAAS and Bally was engaged in accounting 
practices and disclosures that were not in conformity with GAAP.   
 
       42.    In auditing Bally’s accounting practices relating to reactivation revenue, initiation 
fee revenue and deferred acquisition costs, Kiss failed under GAAS to exercise due professional 
care and skepticism, failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter, and substituted 
managements’ representations for competent evidence supporting the accounting.  Kiss never 
insisted that Bally provide support for certain of these estimates, nor did Kiss perform sufficient 
audit procedures to test and determine whether these accounting actions resulted in appropriate 
revenue. Had he done so, he would have reasonably determined that these accounting practices 
were not in conformity with GAAP.    
 
       43.    Kiss also knew or should have known that Bally was making false and misleading 
disclosures in connection with its $55 million special charge.  Kiss did not propose that Bally 
correct its improper accounting in the quarterly financial statements that E&Y reviewed during 
2001-2002.  Accordingly, Kiss was a cause of Bally's violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of 
the Securities Act and was a cause of and aided and abetted Bally’s violations of Sections 13(a) 
and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder.  
 
       44.    Kiss also was a cause of E&Y's violation of Section 10A(b) of the Exchange Act 
in connection with Bally’s failure to disclose that the $55 million special charge recorded in its 
FY 2002 financial statements was due to a deterioration in the collectability of the Company’s 
receivables and E&Y’s failure to report this illegal act to the Audit Committee.  
                                                 
                                            Findings  
 
       As a result of the conduct described above, Kiss was a cause of Bally's violations of 
Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act and was a cause of and willfully aided and abetted 
Bally’s violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-
1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder.  Kiss also was a            cause of E&Y’s violation of Section 10A(b) of 
the Exchange Act by not ensuring that E&Y brought to the attention of Bally’s Audit Committee 
Bally’s false and misleading disclosures of the $55 million special charge.   
     

                                               10
  
---------------------Page 11---------------------

                                                  IV. 
                                                    
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Kiss’ Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
 A.            Kiss cease  and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future 
violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act, and from causing any violations and 
any future violations of Sections 10A(b), 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules                                                                       
12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder; 
 
       B.                    Kiss is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(iii); 
 
                    C. After 3 years from the date of this order, Kiss may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the  
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                                1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Kiss’ work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
      
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                            (a) Kiss, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with 
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                       (b)     Kiss, or the registered pub lic accounting firm with which he is 
associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of 
or potential defects in Kiss’ or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that Kiss will 
not receive appropriate supervision; 

                                                 (c) Kiss has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has 
complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                       (d)     Kiss acknowledges his respons     ibility, as long as Kiss appears or 
practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all requirements 
of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to 
registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
                                                  11
  
---------------------Page 12---------------------

 
                    D. The Commission will consider an application by Kiss to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Kiss’ character, 
integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission.  
 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                                         M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                                   
 

                                                               12
  
