---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                      Before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 9881 / August 6, 2015 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 75622 / August 6, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3673 / August 6, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16729 
 
                                                
                                                
                                                
In the Matter of                           ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC  
                                           ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE -AND- 
      MILLER ENERGY                        DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO   
      RESOURCES, INC., PAUL W.             SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT OF   
      BOYD, CPA, DAVID M. HALL,            1933, SECTIONS 4C AND 21C OF THE  
      AND CARLTON W. VOGT, III ,           SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,   
      CPA                                  AND RULE 102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S
                                                            
Respondent s.                               
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
                                          I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the 
Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Miller Energy Resources, Inc. (f/k/a Miller Petroleum, Inc.) 
(“Miller Energy”), Paul W. Boyd (“Boyd”), and David M. Hall (“Hall”) (collectively, the “Miller 
Respondents”); and that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
Boyd and Carlton W. Vogt, III (“Vogt”), pursuant to Exchange Act Section 4C and 21C, and 
Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) as to Vogt and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) as to Boyd of the Commission’s Rules of 
       1
Practice. 
                                                  
1
 Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                     II. 
  
         After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges: 
  
                                               SUMMARY 

        1.       This case involves financial accounting and reporting fraud, as well as audit 
failures, related to the valuation of certain oil and gas assets acquired by Miller Energy, an oil and 
gas company headquartered in Knoxville, Tennessee.  Miller Energy purchased these assets, which 
are located in Alaska, for $2.25 million in cash – along with the assumption of certain liabilities it 
valued at approximately $2 million – during a competitive bid in a bankruptcy proceeding in 
December 2009.   

        2.       The Company subsequently reported those assets at an overstated value of $480 
million, and recognized a one-time “bargain purchase” gain of $277 million for its fiscal third 
quarter ended January 2010 and fiscal year ended April 2010.   

        3.       The Alaska acquisition was the single most important event in Miller Energy’s 
nearly forty year history, transforming it from a company long mired in the penny-stock arena to 
one traded on a national exchange.  For the week preceding the acquisition, Miller Energy’s stock 
closed at an average price of $0.66 per share.  Since the acquisition, Miller Energy has raised tens of 
millions of dollars in debt and equity, listed its stock on the New York Stock Exchange (the 
“NYSE”), had its stock traded at nearly $9 per share, and achieved in 2013 a market capitalization 
of $393 million.   

        4.       Miller Energy’s CFO at the time, Boyd, failed to account for the acquisition in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).  Accounting Standards 
Codification (“ASC”) 805, Business Combinations, required Miller Energy to record the value of its 
acquired Alaska assets at “fair value.”  However, contrary to authoritative accounting guidance, 
Boyd used as fair value a reserve report that was prepared by a petroleum engineer firm using the 
rules for supplemental oil and gas disclosures.  As set forth in GAAP, the numbers used in these 

                                                                                                                                                              
          The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the 
          privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . (1) not 
          to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or 
          to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully violated, or 
          willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and 
          regulations thereunder. 

 Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 

         The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before 
         it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct. 

 Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 

         The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before 
         it . . . to any person who is found…to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of 
         any provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 

  

                                                      2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

supplemental disclosures do not reflect fair value, and the reserve report used by Boyd expressly 
disclaimed that the numbers therein represented the engineer firm’s opinion of fair value.  The 
reserve report Boyd used also contained expense numbers that were knowingly understated by 
David M. Hall (“Hall”), the CEO of Miller Energy’s Alaska operations.  In addition, Boyd double 
counted $110 million of certain fixed assets that were already included in the reserve report.  

        5.     Miller Energy’s financial statements for fiscal 2010, the first annual period in which 
 the Company reported the fair value of the acquired assets, was audited by Sherb & Co. LLP 
 (“Sherb & Co.”), a now defunct CPA firm that was suspended by the Commission in 2013 for 
 improper professional conduct unrelated to this matter.  The lead engagement partner on the Miller 
 Energy audit, Vogt, failed to comply with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the 
 “PCAOB”) rules and standards in auditing Miller Energy’s financial statements that included its 
 accounting for its Alaska acquisition.  Vogt failed to exercise due professional care and skepticism 
 by not adequately assessing whether the Company’s accounting treatment for the acquisition 
 complied with GAAP.  Vogt also failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter for 
 management’s assertions regarding the fair value of the Alaska assets.         

                                        RESPONDENTS 

        6.     Miller Energy Resources, Inc. is a Tennessee corporation with its principal place 
 of business in Knoxville, Tennessee.  It operates and develops oil and gas wells in north and south 
 central Alaska.  The Company operated oil and gas assets in the Appalachian region of east 
 Tennessee until selling them in November 2014 for $3.3 million in cash.  It changed its name from 
 Miller Petroleum to Miller Energy Resources in April 2011.  Miller Energy’s common stock is 
 currently registered pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12(b) and was listed on the NYSE under the 
 ticker symbol “MILL” until July 2015, when trading in its stock was suspended and the stock was 
 delisted.  It previously traded on the NASDAQ Global Market from May 6, 2010 to April 11, 
 2011, and before then was quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board and traded on the Pink Sheets.  As of 
 February 26, 2015, there were 46,664,223 shares of common stock outstanding.  For fiscal years 
 2010 through 2014, Miller Energy reported annual operating losses every year totaling $79.2 
 million.  Between March 2010 and August 2014, Miller Energy issued shares of common and 
 preferred stock for proceeds of tens of millions of dollars.     

        7.     Paul W. Boyd, CPA, resides in Knoxville, Tennessee.  From 2008 until 2011, Boyd 
 was the CFO and Treasurer at Miller Energy.  He was the director of risk management from 2011 
 until 2014.  He is no longer employed by Miller Energy.   He has been a licensed CPA in 
 Tennessee since 1993.   

        8.     David M. Hall resides in Anchorage, Alaska.  Hall has degrees in Industrial and 
 Electrical Engineering from Rochville University.  He has served as a director of the Company and 
 as CEO of Miller Energy’s Alaska subsidiary since December 2009, and as Miller Energy’s Chief 
 Operating Officer since July 2013.  He has worked with the acquired Alaska assets since at least 
 the mid-1990s, when Miller Energy’s predecessors began compiling the assets.  Prior to joining 
 Miller Energy, Hall served from January 2008 to December 2009 as Vice President and General 
 Manager of Alaska Operations for the immediate past owner of the acquired assets.  In this 
 capacity, Hall was the most senior employee in Alaska responsible for the day-to-day operations of 
 the oil and gas properties.   
                                                 3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       9.      Carlton W. Vogt, III, CPA, resides in Warwick, New York.  From January 2005 to 
October 2011, Vogt was a partner at Sherb & Co., LLP, an accounting firm based out of New 
York.  He has been a licensed CPA in the state of New York since 1998. 

                                             FACTS 

                                          Background 

       10.    Miller Energy was founded in 1967 as an oil and gas exploration and production 
company, and went public via a reverse merger in 1996.  Between early 2002 and December 2009, 
Miller Energy’s stock price regularly traded below one dollar per share, falling to a low of $0.04 
per share in December 2007.  In August 2008, Miller Energy named a new CEO.  Soon thereafter, 
the Company began acquiring additional oil and gas properties. 

                   Miller Energy Acquires and Overvalues the Alaska Assets 

       11.    In the fall of 2009, Miller Energy became aware of certain oil and gas properties in 
Alaska that were in the process of being “abandoned” as part of the bankruptcy proceedings of a 
California-based energy company.   

       12.    Unable to service its heavy debt and pay the significant monthly costs required to 
operate the properties, the bankrupt entity unsuccessfully sought for almost a year to sell its Alaska 
assets.  Beginning in December 2008, months before it filed for bankruptcy, the former owner of 
the assets, with the help of one of the world’s leading financial advisory and asset management 
firms, marketed the same group of assets that Miller Energy ultimately bought to 40 potential 
buyers.  This process failed to attract any bidders, and the assets were auctioned by the bankruptcy 
court in July 2009, with the winning bidder agreeing to a total purchase price of $8 million for the 
assets.  A second entity, who bid $7 million, was designated as the back-up purchaser.  Neither 
bidder closed.    

       13.    As a result, the former owner of the assets sought in August 2009, and was granted 
in September, an order from the bankruptcy court allowing it to abandon title to the assets due to a 
lack of interest.   

       14.    Due to renewed interest in the assets following their abandonment from Miller 
Energy, the bankruptcy court permitted the debtor to reacquire the Alaska assets and sell them to 
Miller Energy in a competitive auction for $2.25 million in cash and the assumption of certain 
limited liabilities.  The transaction closed on December 10, 2009.   

       15.    On March 22, 2010, Miller Energy filed its quarterly report on Form 10-Q for its 
fiscal third quarter ended January 31, 2010 and reported a value of $480 million for the Alaska 
acquisition, which amount was comprised of $368 million for oil and gas properties and $110 
million for fixed assets.  Miller Energy also reported an after-tax $277 million “bargain purchase 
gain,” which boosted net income for the quarter to $272 million – an enormous increase over the 
$556,097 loss reported for the same period the year before. 

       16.    As detailed below, these inflated balance sheet and income statement numbers were 
repeated in numerous documents subsequently filed with the Commission.   

                                                4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       17.    The newly-booked value of the Alaska acquisition, which resulted in a nearly 
5,000% increase in Miller Energy’s total assets, had a significant impact on Miller Energy’s stock 
price.  On December 10, 2009, the date of the transaction, Miller Energy’s stock closed at $0.61 
per share.  By March 31, 2010, Miller Energy’s stock closed 982% higher at $6.60 per share.  
Weeks later, its stock began trading on NASDAQ and, after moving to the NYSE a year later, 
reached an all-time high price on December 9, 2013 of $8.83 per share.   

       18.    As described in detail below, Miller Energy materially overstated the value of its 
Alaska assets by more than four hundred million dollars.     

                            Under GAAP, Miller Energy Was Required 
                          to Record the Alaska Acquisition at Fair Value 

       19.    ASC 805, Business Combinations – formerly Statement of Financial Accounting 
Standards (“SFAS”) 141(R) – became effective in December 2008.  Among its principal revisions, 
ASC 805 requires acquisitions that result in a “bargain purchase,” e.g., entities purchased at fire 
sales prices in non-orderly transactions, to be measured at fair value, with any resulting gain 
recorded on the income statement.    

       20.    ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements (formerly SFAS 157), provides the framework 
for measuring fair value.  “Fair value” is defined in ASC 820 as “the price that would be received 
to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at 
the measurement date.”  A reporting entity must determine an appropriate fair value using one or 
more of the valuation techniques described in accounting literature.  

       21.    ASC 820 outlines three broad approaches to measure fair value: the market 
approach, income approach, and cost approach.  Under the market approach, prices and other 
relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable assets or 
liabilities are used to measure fair value.  The income approach utilizes valuation techniques to 
convert future amounts to a single discounted present value amount.  Finally, the cost approach is 
based on the amount that currently would be required to replace the assets in service, i.e., current 
replacement cost.   

       22.    ASC 820 emphasizes that fair value is a market-based measurement, not an entity-
specific measurement, and should be determined based on the assumptions market participants 
would use in pricing the asset or liability.   

       23.    ASC 820 emphasizes that when a price for an identical asset or liability is not 
observable entities should use a “valuation technique that maximizes the use of relevant observable 
inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs” and entities may not ignore assumptions 
                               2
market participants would use.      

                                                   
2
 ASC 820 defines “unobservable inputs” as “inputs that reflect the reporting entity’s own assumptions about the 
assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on the best information 
available in the circumstances” and “observable inputs” as “inputs that reflect the assumptions market participants 
would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on market data obtained from sources independent of the 
reporting entity.”  

                                                  5  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

        24.     When computing their estimate of fair value, Miller Energy and Boyd failed to 
consider the existence of numerous, readily apparent data points strongly indicating that the assets 
were worth substantially less than the $480 million value Miller Energy recorded.  In failing to do 
so, Miller Energy and Boyd, materially overstated the value of the newly acquired Alaska assets.   

        25.     As described below, Miller Energy purported to value its Alaska acquisition using 
the income approach for the oil and gas reserves and the cost approach for certain fixed assets. 

                       The Valuation of the Acquired Oil and Gas Properties 
            Was Based Upon a Reserve Report, Which Does Not Represent Fair Value 

        26.     To record the value of the acquired oil and gas properties, Miller Energy and Boyd 
requested and improperly used a reserve report prepared by an independent petroleum engineer 
firm.   

        27.     Reserve reports are commonly used in the oil and gas industry to estimate quantities 
                                                                                     3
of oil and gas (the reserves) expected to be recovered from existing properties.         Generally, these 
reports list reserves in categories based on a minimum estimated percentage probability of eventual 
recovery and production,    i.e., proved, probable, and possible.  Information in reserve reports that 
are prepared in accordance with Commission regulations is frequently used, for among other 
purposes, to satisfy supplemental accounting disclosure requirements concerning estimates of 
future oil and gas production.  However, the numbers used in reserve reports for this purpose are 
                                                                 4
expressly not considered “an estimate of fair market value.”  

        28.     Shortly after the acquisition, Boyd asked Hall – a non-accountant with no formal 
accounting training – to obtain a reserve report for the Alaska properties in order to determine the 
fair value of the acquired assets to be reported on Miller Energy’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 
January 31, 2010.   

        29.     On January 5, 2010, Hall hired a petroleum engineer firm to prepare a reserve 
report using a pretax present value of net cash flows discounted at 10% (“PV-10”), which, while 

                                                 
3
 Oil and gas reporting companies are subject to two principal authoritative pronouncements governing financial 
accounting and reporting for oil and gas activities: Rule 4-10 of Regulation S-X (17 C.F.R. 210.4-10), Financial 
Accounting and Reporting for Oil and Gas Producing Activities Pursuant to the Federal Securities Laws and the 
Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975 (“Rule 4-10”); and ASC 932-235-50-29 through 33 (formerly SFAS 
19, Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Companies and SFAS 69, Disclosures About Oil 
and Gas Producing Activities).  ASC 932 establishes disclosure requirements for significant oil and gas activities, 
including disclosure of the “standardized measure,” which is the future after-tax net cash flows discounted at 10%. 
A non-GAAP measure known as “PV-10” is similar to the standardized measure but is typically presented on a 
pretax basis.  The FASB has noted that the standardized measure supplies investors with useful information, 
however, they also noted their concern “that users of financial statements understand that it is neither fair market 
value nor the present value of future cash flows. It is a rough surrogate for such measures, a tool to allow for a 
reasonable comparison of mineral reserves and changes through the use of a standardized method that recognizes 
qualitative, quantitative, geographic, and temporal characteristics.”  Paragraph 83 of the Basis for Conclusions of 
SFAS 69.     
4
 See Paragraph 77 of the Basis for Conclusion of  SFAS 69 (“Although it cannot be considered an estimate of fair 
market value, the standardized measure of discounted net cash flows should be responsive to some of the key variables 
that affect fair market value, namely, changes in reserve quantities, selling prices, production costs, and tax rates.”).   

                                                     6  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

appropriate with further adjustments for SEC supplemental disclosures, was not indicative of fair 
value.   

       30.    The petroleum engineer firm did not know Miller Energy intended to use the report 
for fair value purposes and believed that the purpose of the report was for use as supplemental data 
in the company’s SEC disclosures.  Indeed, the two page engagement letter with the engineer firm 
includes no language about “fair value,” “fair market value” or authoritative accounting literature.     

       31.    The reserve report was finalized in February 2010 and reflected PV-10 of $368 
million.  

       32.    Upon receiving the reserve report, Boyd, without undertaking any additional 
analysis, merely recorded as the fair value of the acquired oil and gas properties the sum of the PV-
10 estimates for 100% of the proved, probable, and possible reserves, which increased the book 
value of Miller Energy’s oil and gas properties on its balance sheet by $368 million.   

       33.    The reserve report itself clearly stated that the numbers therein were not an estimate 
of fair market value.  Specifically, on page 3 of the report, it states that “[t]he discounted values 
shown are for your information and should not be construed as our estimate of fair market value.”  
Boyd never reviewed or questioned any of the reserve report’s assumptions or calculations, nor did 
he communicate with the engineer firm about the reserve report.  

       34.    The use of the PV-10 numbers as fair value conflicted with contemporaneous 
representations Miller Energy made to investors.  Specifically, in its fiscal 2010 Form 10-K, which 
was the first annual report that included the inflated values, Miller Energy expressly told investors 
that “[o]ur PV-10 measure and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows do not 
purport to present the fair value of our natural gas and oil reserves.”  Despite that disclosure, Miller 
Energy had actually used its PV-10 measure in that very same report as the fair value of its 
acquired properties.    

       35.    The $368 million reserve report value did not represent fair value for several 
reasons.   

       36.    Despite showing years of net profit that market participants would expect to be 
taxable, the reserve report did not make any adjustments for income taxes.    

       37.    At Miller Energy’s request, the reserve report used a 10% discount rate that was 
inappropriate under GAAP for determining fair value.  In a discounted cash flow model, a discount 
rate is used to account for the uncertainties associated with risk and the time value of money.  A 
discount rate is the required rate of return that an investor would demand – based on the risks 
associated with the benefit stream under consideration – to induce the investor to make an 
investment.  By failing to consider the discount rate using assumptions market participants would 
use, Miller Energy materially overstated the value of the acquired oil and gas properties.       

       38.    The valuation also overstated cash flows from certain categories of reserve 
estimates (e.g., “probable” and “possible” reserves) by failing to apply any risk weight to such 
reserves and the resulting cash flows.  Given the high degree of uncertainty associated with cash 
                                                 7  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

flows from these reserve estimate categories, they are required to be risk weighted in order to 
reflect an appropriate valuation. 

       39.    The reserve report did not include amounts for certain asset retirement obligations, 
i.e., the legal obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets.    

       40.    Finally, the $237 million of projected operating and capital expenses in the reserve 
report, which were provided by Miller Energy and Hall, were intentionally understated, resulting in 
an overstated valuation.   

       41.    In fact, one petroleum engineer firm contacted but not used by Miller Energy 
thought that the expected level of expenses made a significant portion of the acquisition 
unprofitable.  Initially, Hall contacted the petroleum engineer firm who had previously provided 
the past two owners of the properties with reserve reports, and thus had unfettered access to past 
operating data, and requested a quote for “updating” a prior reserve report.  That firm told Hall that 
it would not assign any value to one of the largest fields acquired, the Redoubt Shoal field, because 
it was uneconomical – i.e., expected future expenses exceeded expected future cash flows – and 
explained that it would not put its “name on a report that implies value exists where it likely does 
     5
not.”    

       42.    Boyd was aware that Miller Energy chose the new firm because the prior firm 
would not assign any value to the Redoubt Shoal field.  The Redoubt Shoal field – which 
represented $291 million of the $368 million in fair value recorded by Miller Energy – showed 
positive future cash flows in the reserve report primarily because Hall gave the new engineer firm 
understated and unsubstantiated expense numbers.  Boyd had previously been advised by Vogt that 
the lack of any controls over Hall’s expense estimates was a “concerning void.”             

       43.    Miller Energy and Hall provided expense projections that, in many cases, were 
significantly lower than past actual experience.  For example, internal documents maintained by 
Hall indicate that the cost to drill a new well in the Redoubt field was roughly $13 million.  
However, Hall told the engineer firm to use a cost of $4.6 million per well in its reserve report.  
And instead of using recent expense data Hall gave the engineer firm nearly three year old 
operating expense data, which he revised down on the pretext that Miller Energy could run a leaner 
operation than former operators of the properties.  By way of example, Hall told the engineer firm 
that the offshore Redoubt field would cost $399,000 per month to operate when it actually cost the 
seller more than $600,000 per month and when internal estimates show that Miller Energy and 
Hall expected the field to cost more than $800,000 per month once fully operational.  Additionally, 
in some years, the report included zero expenses for operating the facilities in Redoubt and another 
field.    

                                                 
5
 Unique among the oil and gas properties purchased by Miller Energy, Redoubt Shoal is an offshore field in Cook 
Inlet, Alaska, which requires the use of an offshore platform that sits in seventy feet of water, is accessible only by 
boat or helicopter, and drills to depths in excess of 12,000 feet.  Offshore drilling presents risks and costs not 
associated with onshore operations.           

                                                  8  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

       44.    Overall, the reserve report implied operating expenses of $4 per barrel of oil 
equivalent (“boe”) for all categories of reserves.  That level of operating expenses was 
unreasonable in light its predecessor’s actual operating expenses of $32.50/boe in 2008 and 
$55.42/boe in the first half of 2009 before the wells were shut-in.   

       45.    By understating the expense numbers, the Miller Respondents overvalued the oil 
and gas properties by tens of millions of dollars. 

       The Fair Value of the Acquired Fixed Assets Was Double-Counted and Overstated 

       46.    In addition to the $368 million value recorded for the oil and gas properties, Miller 
Energy also erroneously recorded a separate value of $110 million for acquired fixed assets, such 
as facilities and pipelines ancillary to the oil and gas reserves.   

       47.    In a February 8, 2010 email, Boyd informed Hall that he needed an amount to use 
as fair value for the fixed assets obtained as part of the Alaska acquisition.  He noted that, ideally, 
the value should be what a willing buyer would pay for the assets, but “[i]n the absence of that, 
replacement values or something similar would probably work.”  Two days later, Boyd was sent an 
“asset replacement cost study” purportedly provided by an independent insurance broker, which 
appeared to list the replacement cost for the assets as $110 million.  The “study” was dated 
September 5, 2008, but “revised” on February 9, 2010.   

       48.    Without any additional analysis, Boyd recorded the amount in the revised insurance 
study on Miller Energy’s balance sheet.   

       49.    The recording of assets at a value of $110 million was improper for several reasons.     

       50.    Miller Energy’s use of the values in the insurance study resulted in counting the 
value of the fixed assets twice, thereby overstating the value of such assets.  The reserve report 
Miller Energy relied on to value the acquired oil and gas properties used a discounted cash flow 
model.  Valuation specialists use such models to estimate the value of an enterprise’s “operating 
assets” – i.e., the assets employed to generate future cash flows – by converting future benefit 
streams into a net present value.  In Miller Energy’s case, the fixed assets in the insurance study 
were the very same operating assets that were expected to generate the future cash flows in the 
reserve report.  Accordingly, they should not have been separately valued.   

       51.    Prior to the acquisition, all of the production from the offshore Redoubt Shoal field 
ran through the Osprey platform, which had no processing facilities or power generating capability 
of its own.  Power was sent from generators housed within the Kustatan Production Facility to the 
platform via a subsea line, which was connected to an underground power grid that ran throughout 
all of the acquired properties.  Moreover, production from the offshore platform was sent onshore 
for processing through pipes to the Kustatan Production Facility.  Absent the platform, there would 
have been no way to obtain oil and gas from Redoubt Shoal without incurring upfront capital 
expenditures to replace the platform and its related infrastructure.  Similarly, without the other 
production facilities, the platform would have lacked power and somewhere to process its oil and 
gas.   

                                                 9  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

       52.    The reserve report Miller Energy used for the valuation recognized the 
interconnectedness of the properties, as it expressly listed the facilities and the offshore platform as 
assets used to generate the future cash flows.   

       53.    In short, because the fixed assets were integral to the operations of the acquired 
properties, their values were captured in the reserve report’s cash flows.  Consequently, by 
separately valuing the same operating assets, Miller Energy overstated the value of the Alaska 
assets by as much as $110 million.   

       54.    The insurance study also did not reflect fair value because the version of the 
insurance study used by Boyd purported to show “asset replacement cost.”   Absent further 
adjustments, replacement cost new does not qualify as fair value under GAAP.   

       55.    Miller Energy, at the direction of Boyd and Hall, also refashioned a preexisting 
insurance study to make it appear that its own value of $110 million derived from a third party.  
The numbers in the fixed asset study were given to the insurance broker, and its predecessor, by its 
clients (i.e., Miller Energy and the previous owners of the fixed assets) as far back as 2007 and 
were used as starting points for other types of estimates, such as estimates for possible losses 
resulting from fire or natural disasters.  The two employees at the insurance broker who were most 
familiar with the original “Loss Estimates Study,” including the engineer who authored it, 
confirmed that no one at the broker ever tested or in any way double-checked the values given to 
them.   

       56.    Boyd and Hall knew or knowingly disregarded the fact that the insurance study did 
not reflect fair value or any analysis by the insurance broker.   

       57.    On February 8, 2010, Hall directed Alaska personnel to contact the insurance 
broker and another oil and gas consulting company to ask them for a report reflecting fair value or 
replacement cost.  The insurance broker responded on February 9, and told Miller Energy in an 
email copied to Hall that it could not provide a report showing replacement costs.   

       58.    Miller Energy also contacted a separate consulting firm and sent it the insurance 
broker’s original 2008 insurance report.  Late on February 8, the consulting firm informed Miller 
Energy that the insurance study it sent was a “good reference” but the report did not state “value or 
replacement cost.”  The firm offered to conduct its own analysis, but advised that the estimate 
would take “approximately 2-3 weeks to complete” and “cost around $15,000-$18,000.”   

       59.    Upon hearing the news that a new report might take two to three weeks, Alaska 
personnel, including Hall, called Boyd.  According to one participant on this call, Boyd said he 
could not wait weeks for a new report.  He “needed it quickly and he needed to base it on 
something . . . a professional had to sign off on it, not us, some third party. . . .”  During the call, 
Boyd and Hall decided to rely on numbers in the insurance report as replacement costs, despite 
Hall having been told by the broker that it could not provide Miller Energy with replacement costs.   

       60.    With the aim of making the report appear as though it reflected replacement costs, 
Hall provided a subordinate with edits to the 2008 insurance report that significantly altered its 
appearance, including changing its name from “Loss Estimates Study” to “Asset replacement cost 
                                                10   
---------------------Page 11---------------------

study.”  The revised report, which Miller Energy gave to Sherb & Co., omitted the insurance 
broker’s methodology and analysis.  As a result, the only numbers reflected in the revised report 
were the ones provided to the broker by Miller Energy and its predecessors. 

       61.    As a result of the foregoing, Miller Energy overvalued the Alaska assets by more 
than $400 million. 

       62.    As a result of the fraudulent valuation, Miller Energy filed with the Commission 
financial reports that materially misstated the value of its assets, as follows:  Forms 10-Q for the 
third quarter of fiscal year 2010 and all three quarters of fiscal years 2011 through 2015; Forms 10-
K for fiscal years ended 2010 through 2014; the Form S-1 filed on August 8, 2010; the Forms S-3 
filed on September 6, 2012 and October 5, 2012; and prospectuses filed between August 25, 2010 
through August 21, 2014 pursuant to Rule 424.  The fraudulent valuation also resulted in Miller 
Energy filing with the Commission financial reports that materially misstated its net income, as 
follows: Forms 10-Q for the third quarter of fiscal year 2010, all three quarters of fiscal 2011, and 
the first two quarter of 2012; Forms 10-K for fiscal years ended 2010 through 2012; the Form S-1 
filed on August 8, 2010; the Forms S-3 filed on September 6, 2012 and October 5, 2012; and 
prospectus supplements filed between August 25, 2010 through August 21, 2014 pursuant to Rule 
424.  In addition, the fraudulent valuation rendered no fewer than 15 Forms 8-K filed between 
March 2010 through at least December 2014 materially false and misleading.  

                         Vogt’s Fiscal Year 2010 Audit of Miller Energy 

       63.    In August 2008, Miller Energy hired Sherb & Co. to become the company’s 
independent public accountant.  Vogt led an audit team that audited Miller Energy’s financial 
statements for fiscal years ended 2009 and 2010.    

       64.    As the partner in charge of the fiscal year 2010 Miller Energy audit, Vogt failed to 
perform the 2010 Miller Energy audit in accordance with PCAOB Auditing Standards.  These 
deficiencies included, among other items, failing properly to audit the fair value measurements, use 
the work of a specialist, plan, staff and supervise the audit, obtain sufficient competent audit 
evidence, exercise due care and professional skepticism, and perform required audit testing.   

       65.    Vogt’s failures related to the auditing of the Alaska asset acquisition.  Despite the 
materiality of the transaction on Miller Energy’s financial statements, Vogt failed to adequately 
test the valuation of the assets and the related calculation of the gain on acquisition.  Instead, he 
inappropriately relied on the aforementioned reserve report and the so-called asset replacement 
cost study to justify Miller Energy’s $480 million valuation of the Alaska assets.   

       66.    Vogt did not perform the necessary procedures to enable him to use the findings of 
                                     6
the reserve report.  See AU § 336.12.  He and his audit staff performed a limited evaluation  of  the 
petroleum engineer  firm’s work and its qualifications as a specialist (as a petroleum engineer, not 
as a fair value appraiser).  The reserve report, which was included in the audit workpapers, clearly 
stated that the engineer firm was not engaged to – and did not in fact – perform a fair value 

                                                 
6
 References in this order are to the PCAOB standards in effect at the time of the relevant conduct. 

                                                 11   
---------------------Page 12---------------------

estimate for the Alaska assets.  Among other significant flaws, Vogt never obtained an 
understanding of the objectives and scope of the specialist’s work or the appropriateness of using 
the specialist’s work for the purpose of fair valuing the assets.  See AU § 336.09. Nor did he make 
the appropriate tests of data provided to the specialist, including operating and capital expenses 
estimated and provided by Hall.  See AU § 336.12. 

       67.    The audit of the recorded fixed assets of $110 million was similarly flawed.  A 
member of the audit team obtained the asset replacement cost study and placed a copy of it in the 
workpapers, but Vogt failed to consider the nature of the fixed assets and whether they would be 
utilized to generate the cash flow from the oil and gas properties, and, if so, what remainder value 
would exist.  Nor did Vogt or the audit team perform any meaningful work to consider the 
expertise and experience of those persons determining the fair value measurement, the significant 
management assumptions used in determining the fair value, and the documentation supporting 
management’s assumptions.  See AU § 328.12.   

       68.    Vogt knew at the time of the accounting for the acquisition that Miller Energy had 
insufficient accounting staff and that any accounting was suspect.  In a December 22, 2009 email 
to Miller Energy’s senior management, Vogt indicated that he believed the Company’s accounting 
staff was deficient, and that Boyd cut too many corners on the accounting documentation. 
Furthermore, Vogt stated that Hall’s modeling of cash flows and expenses was “concerning” 
because there was no one taking a detailed look at his estimates.  In an email dated March 17, 
2011, Vogt also knew that the reserve report used suspect data and was completed on what he 
described as a “rushed basis,” as Miller Energy “had very little time if none for any true due 
diligence of much depth into what [it] purchased.”   

       69.    Vogt, on behalf of Sherb & Co., issued an audit report containing an unqualified 
opinion for use in Miller Energy’s 2010 Form 10-K that stated falsely that the audit had been 
conducted in accordance with the PCAOB’s standards and that Miller Energy’s financial 
statements were presented fairly, in all material respects, in conformity with GAAP.  The specific 
failures are detailed below.   

             Failures Auditing Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (AU § 328) 

       70.    AU § 328 requires auditors to obtain sufficient competent audit evidence to provide 
reasonable assurance that fair value measurements and disclosures are in conformity with GAAP. 
AU § 328.03.  The standard provides that “[t]he auditor should test the data used to develop the fair 
value measurements and disclosures and evaluate whether the fair value measurements have been 
properly determined” including “whether the data on which the fair value measurements are based, 
including the data used in the work of a specialist, is accurate, complete and relevant . . . .” AU § 
328.39.  In addition, “[t]he auditor should evaluate the sufficiency and competence of the audit 
evidence obtained from auditing fair value measurements and disclosures as well as the 
consistency of that evidence with other audit evidence obtained and evaluated during the audit.” 
AU § 328.47.  If a valuation model is utilized, the auditor reviews the model and evaluates whether 
the assumptions used are reasonable.  AU § 328.38. 

                                                12   
---------------------Page 13---------------------

       71.    Vogt failed to comply with these requirements in connection with the 2010 audit of 
Miller Energy.  While Vogt performed some testing on the data used to create the reserve report, 
he failed to test key elements such as the discount rate utilized, the risk weighting of the probable 
and possible reserves, estimated oil prices, and operating and capital expenses.  Vogt also never 
properly considered the relevancy of the reserve report, improperly relying exclusively on the 
report since the specialist, a petroleum engineer, was not engaged to estimate a fair valuation, as 
expressly indicated in the report.  Nor did he consider the consistency of the evidence in light of 
the other evidence, such as Miller Energy’s actual purchase price of the assets (reported at less than 
$5 million), and the fact that the assets had previously been abandoned during a bankruptcy 
proceeding. While Vogt and his staff reviewed some aspects of the specialist’s valuation model, 
they failed to sufficiently review and evaluate the reasonableness of assumptions such as the 
discount rate, risk weighting of certain reserves, future oil prices, and operating and capital 
expenses. 

       72.    Vogt also failed to obtain sufficient audit evidence to support the fair value of the 
fixed assets.  Vogt performed limited, if any, testing of the asset replacement cost study 
purportedly supporting the fixed asset valuation.  He did not assess the competency or sufficiency 
of the asset replacement cost study, or understand who created the study, their qualifications, and 
the data underlying their valuation.  Finally, Vogt failed to consider whether some or all of the 
fixed assets were being utilized in the estimated values captured in the reserve report. 

                       Failure in Using the Work of a Specialist (AU § 336) 

       73.    AU § 336 provides guidance to auditors when the work of a specialist is used in 
performing an audit of financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Among other 
items, the standard requires the auditor to evaluate the specialist to ensure that the specialist 
possesses the necessary skill or knowledge in the type of work under consideration and the 
appropriateness of using the specialist’s work for the intended purpose.  Specifically, AU § 336.08 
states that “[t]he auditor should consider the following to evaluate the professional qualifications of 
the specialist in determining that the specialist possesses the necessary skill or knowledge in the 
particular field:  

               a.  The professional certification, license, or other recognition of the competence of 
                   the specialist in his or her field, as appropriate 

               b.  The reputation and standing of the specialist in the views of peers and others 
                   familiar with the specialist’s capability or performance 

               c.  The specialist's experience in the type of work under consideration.” 

       74.    Furthermore, AU § 336.09 states “[t]he auditor should obtain an understanding of 
the nature of the work performed or to be performed by the specialist. This understanding should 
cover the following: 

               a.  The objectives and scope of the specialist’s work 

               b.  The specialist's relationship to the client  

               c.  The methods or assumptions used 

                                                 13   
---------------------Page 14---------------------

               d.  A comparison of the methods or assumptions used with those used in the 
                   preceding period 

               e.  The appropriateness of using the specialist's work for the intended purpose  

               f.  The form and content of the specialist’s findings that will enable the auditor to 
                                                                            7
                   make the evaluation described in paragraph [336].12.”  

       75.    Although the Standard allows an auditor to use the work of a specialist as evidential 
matter in performing substantive tests to evaluate material financial statement assertions (see AU § 
336.03), Vogt failed in several respects in his use of a specialist regarding the valuation of Miller 
Energy’s Alaska acquisition.   

       76.    Vogt did not properly consider the petroleum engineer’s experience in fair 
valuation of assets, which was nonexistent.  See AU § 336.08.  Vogt also failed to obtain an 
understanding of the objectives and scope and intended purpose of the petroleum engineer’s 
engagement for Miller Energy, which was to produce a reserve report for reserve disclosure 
purposes, not a fair valuation of acquired assets.  See AU § 336.09.   Indeed, the single page of the 
reserve report included in Vogt’s workpapers, to support his evaluation of Miller Energy’s $368 
million valuation, clearly states that the “values shown . . . should not be construed as our estimate 
of fair market value.”   

       77.    Furthermore, Vogt failed to adequately obtain an understanding of the methods and 
assumptions used by the specialist, or appropriately test data provided to the specialist.  See AU § 
336.12.  There is no evidence that Vogt considered the appropriateness of certain key assumptions 
used by the petroleum engineer, such as the discount rate, estimated price of oil and gas, and the 
lack of risk weighting of probable and possible reserves.  Finally, Vogt, despite alerting Boyd and 
Miller Energy’s then CEO of the lack of sufficient review and inquiry, failed to adequately test the 
operating and capital expense estimates provided to the specialist by Miller Energy, and took few 
audit steps, other than inquiry, to assess the reasonableness of the expense estimates.  

       78.    Vogt performed no steps to evaluate the qualifications of the authors of the asset 
replacement cost study, or understand the methods or assumptions they used or the appropriateness 
of using the Asset replacement cost study to support the valuation of the fixed assets at $110 
million. 

        Failure to Exercise Due Professional Care in the Performance of Work (AU § 230)  

       79.    PCAOB Standards require auditors to exercise due professional care in the planning 
and performance of the audit.  See AU § 230.01.  Due professional care requires the auditor to 
exercise professional skepticism: an attitude that includes a questioning mind and a critical 
assessment of audit evidence.  See AU § 230.07.  Moreover, gathering and objectively evaluating 

                                                 
7
 AU § 336.12 states that an auditor should evaluate the appropriateness and reasonableness of methods and 
assumptions used, during which the auditor should: “(a) obtain an understanding of the methods and assumptions 
used by the specialist, (b) make appropriate tests of data provided to the specialist, taking into account the auditor's 
assessment of control risk, and (c) evaluate whether the specialist's findings support the related assertions in the 
financial statements.” 
                                                  14   
---------------------Page 15---------------------

audit evidence requires the auditor to consider the competency and sufficiency of the evidence.  
See AU § 230.08.     

       80.    Vogt failed to exercise due professional care regarding the audit of the Alaska 
acquisition valuation during the 2010 Miller Energy audit.  Miller Energy had valued the assets 
purchased for a few million dollars at $480 million and had recorded a corresponding $277 million 
bargain purchase gain.  Given the size of the transaction, Vogt should have focused more closely 
on the diligence required to gather and objectively evaluate the evidence supporting the fair value 
of the oil and gas properties acquired to comply with ASC 805 and common industry practice. He 
failed to adequately consider the competency and sufficiency of the reserve report as evidence of 
the fair value of the acquired oil and gas properties.  Vogt also performed limited procedures and 
failed to sufficiently evaluate the evidentiary value of the asset replacement cost study, including 
failing to understand the source of the fixed asset values therein and the competency of the report 
authors.   

                              Failure to Plan and Supervise (AU § 311) 

       81.    AU § 311 requires an auditor to adequately plan the work and properly supervise 
assistants.  AU § 311.01.  In planning the audit, the auditor should consider, among other matters, 
the entity’s business, the entity’s accounting policies and procedures, and planned assessed level of 
control risk. AU § 311.03.  A written audit program is required.  AU § 311.05.  Supervision 
involves directing the efforts of assistants who are involved in accomplishing the objectives of the 
audit and determining whether those objectives were accomplished.  The extent of supervision 
appropriate in a given instance depends on many factors, including the complexity of the subject 
matter and the qualifications of persons performing the work.  AU § 311.11.   

       82.    Vogt’s work did not meet this standard.  Vogt’s audit program to test Miller 
Energy’s fair value assessment of the Alaska acquisition was insufficient.  The planned procedures 
largely consisted of verifying the credentials of a specialist.  Vogt’s audit program failed to set 
forth procedures necessary to ensure the appropriateness of using the specialist’s work for the 
purpose of a fair valuation.  Nor did his audit program provide additional and alternate procedures 
for the insufficient evidence provided by the work of the specialist.  As to the fixed assets, Vogt’s 
program was insufficient in that it merely required agreeing the asset balance to the Asset 
replacement cost study provided by Miller Energy. 

       83.    Vogt’s supervision of his staff was also deficient. Vogt spent little time on-site 
while the field work was conducted, and he knew the staff auditors had insufficient oil and gas 
industry experience.  It was evident during their respective testimonies that the two staff members 
assigned by Vogt to the Miller Energy audit, whose experience consisted almost entirely of 
auditing microcap companies, were ill-prepared to test a transaction purportedly valued in excess 
of $400 million.  The most junior staff member was not a Certified Public Accountant, did not 
appear to comprehend basic accounting principles, including elementary aspects of fair value 
accounting, yet was charged with the testing of the oil and gas properties fair valuation.     

                  

                                                15   
---------------------Page 16---------------------

      Failure to Properly Assess Audit Risk and Materiality in Conducting an Audit (AU § 312) 

       84.    AU § 312 states that, when an auditor has concluded that there is a significant risk 
of material misstatement of the financial statements, the auditor should consider this conclusion in 
determining the nature, timing, or extent of procedures; assigning staff; or requiring appropriate 
levels of supervision.  Ordinarily, higher risk requires more experienced personnel or more 
extensive supervision by the auditor with final responsibility for the engagement during both the 
planning and the conduct of the engagement.  Higher risk may cause the auditor to expand the 
extent of procedures applied, apply procedures closer to or as of year-end, particularly in critical 
audit areas, or modify the nature of procedures to obtain more persuasive evidence. AU § 312.17 

       85.    Vogt’s knowledge of the magnitude of the Alaska acquisition, and his knowledge 
of the inadequacy of Miller Energy’s accounting personnel, including Boyd, should have resulted 
in increased scrutiny of Miller Energy’s valuation of the Alaska assets.  Yet Vogt assigned crucial 
audit procedures to staff who lacked appropriate industry and auditing experience, and did not 
sufficiently supervise their work. 

                Failure to Obtain Sufficient Competent Evidential Matter (AU § 326) 

       86.    Under the third standard of field work, sufficient competent evidential matter is to 
be obtained through inspection, observation, inquiries, and confirmations to afford a reasonable 
basis for an opinion regarding the financial statements under audit.  AU § 326.01.  Since he over 
relied on a reserve report and the asset replacement cost study, and took limited to no additional 
audit steps to test that audit evidence, Vogt failed to obtain sufficient evidence for the fair value of 
the Alaska acquisition.   

                      Failure to Issue an Accurate Audit Report (AU § 508) 

       87.    Under AU § 508, an auditor may only express an unqualified opinion on historical 
financial statements when the auditor has formed such an opinion on the basis of an audit 
performed in accordance with PCAOB standards.  AU § 508.07.  Based upon the audit failures 
discussed above, Vogt should not have issued an audit report containing an unqualified opinion on 
Miller Energy’s fiscal year 2010 financial statements. 

                                         VIOLATIONS 

       88.    As a result of the conduct described above, Miller Energy violated Section 17(a) of 
the Securities Act, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit 
fraudulent conduct in the offer or sale of securities and in connection with the purchase or sale of 
securities.  Boyd willfully aided and abetted and caused, and Hall caused, Miller Energy’s 
violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, Sections 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-
5 thereunder. 

       89.       As a result of the conduct described above, Boyd willfully violated, and Hall 
violated, Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 
thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in the offer or sale of securities and in connection 
with the purchase or sale of securities.   
                                                16   
---------------------Page 17---------------------

       90.    As a result of the conduct described above, Miller Energy violated Section 13(a) of 
the Exchange Act, and Rules 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder, which require that every issuer 
of a security registered pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12 file with the Commission, among 
other things, annual, current, and quarterly reports as the Commission may require.  Boyd willfully 
aided and abetted and caused, and Hall caused, Miller Energy's violations of Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act, and Rules 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder.   

       91.    As a result of the conduct described above, Miller Energy violated Section 
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to make and keep books, 
records and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their transactions and 
dispositions of their assets.  Boyd willfully aided and abetted and caused, and Hall caused, Miller 
Energy’s violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act. 

       92.    As a result of the conduct described above, Miller Energy violated Section 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, which requires all reporting companies to devise and maintain a 
system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. 
Boyd willfully aided and abetted and caused, and Hall caused, Miller Energy's violations of 
Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. 

       93.    As a result of the conduct described above, Boyd willfully violated, and Hall 
violated, Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act which prohibits any person from knowingly 
circumventing or knowingly failing to implement a system of internal accounting controls or 
knowingly falsifying any book, record, or account described in Section 13(b)(2) of the Exchange 
Act.  

       94.    As a result of the conduct described above, Miller Energy violated Rule 12b-20 
under the Exchange Act which requires that, in addition to the information expressly required to be 
included in a statement or report filed with the Commission, there shall be added such further 
material information, if any, as may be necessary to make the required statements, in light of the 
circumstances under which they are made not misleading.  Boyd willfully aided and abetted and 
caused, and Hall caused, Miller Energy’s violations of violated Rule 12b-20 under the Exchange 
Act. 

       95.    As a result of the conduct described above, Boyd willfully violated Rule 13a-14 of 
the Exchange Act which requires that an issuer’s principal executive and principal financial 
officers certify each periodic report. 

       96.    As a result of the conduct described above, Vogt engaged in improper professional 
conduct within the meaning of Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice.  Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) 
provide, in pertinent part, that the Commission may censure or deny, temporarily or permanently, 
the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission to any person who is found by the 
Commission to have engaged in improper professional conduct.  Section 4C(b) of the Exchange 
Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iv) define improper professional conduct with respect to persons license to 
practice as accountants as (1) a single instance of highly unreasonable conduct in circumstances for 

                                                17   
---------------------Page 18---------------------

which heightened scrutiny is warranted; or (2) repeated instances of unreasonable conduct that 
indicate a lack of competence.   

                                               III. 

       In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement, the Commission deems it 
necessary and appropriate in the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist 
proceedings be instituted to determine: 

       A.      Whether the allegations set forth in Section II hereof are true and, in connection 
therewith, to afford Respondents an opportunity to establish any defenses to such allegations;  

       B.      Whether, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and Section 21C of the 
Exchange Act, Miller Energy, Boyd, and Hall should be ordered to cease and desist from 
committing or causing violations of and any future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, 
Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 
13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13thereunder, whether Boyd and Hall should be ordered to cease and desist 
from committing violations of and any future violations of Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act 
and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder, whether Boyd should be ordered to cease and desist from committing 
violations of and any future violations of  Rule 13a-14; whether Miller Energy, Boyd, and Hall 
should be ordered to pay a civil penalty pursuant to Section 8A(g) of the Securities Act and Section 
21B(a) of the Exchange Act, and whether Miller Energy, Boyd, and Hall should be ordered to pay 
disgorgement pursuant to Section 8A(e) of the Securities Act and Sections 21B(e) and 21C(e) of the 
Exchange Act; 

       C.      Whether, pursuant to Section 8A(f) of the Securities Act and Section 21C(f) of the 
Exchange Act, Boyd and/or Hall should be prohibited, conditionally or unconditionally, and 
permanently or for such period of time as the Commission shall determine, from acting as an officer 
and director of any issuer that has a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the 
Exchange Act, or that is required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange act; and 

       D.      Whether, pursuant to Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Section 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, Boyd and Vogt should be denied, temporarily or permanently, the 
privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as accountants.     

                                               IV. 

        IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the questions 
set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened not earlier than 30 days and not later than 60 days 
from service of this Order at a time and place to be fixed, and before an Administrative Law Judge 
to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
17 C.F.R. § 201.110.   

        IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents shall file an Answer to the allegations 
contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as provided by Rule 220 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220.  

                                                18   
---------------------Page 19---------------------

        If Respondents fail to file the directed answer, or fail to appear at a hearing after being 
duly notified, the Respondents may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be determined 
against them upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be deemed to be true 
as provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 
C.F.R.  §§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f) and 201.310. 

        This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondents as provided for in the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice. 

        IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an initial 
decision no later than 300 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to Rule 360(a)(2) of 
the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  

 
        In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission 
engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually related 
proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter, except as 
witness or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice.  Since this proceeding is not “rule 
making” within the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it is not deemed 
subject to the provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any final Commission action. 

               By the Commission. 

 
 
 
                                                             Brent J. Fields 
                                                             Secretary 
 

                                                19   
