---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 9931 / September 28, 2015 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 75998 / September 28, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3707 / September 28, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-16838 
 
                                             ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE -AND-
In the Matter of                             DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
                                             SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT 
      William C. Enlo e,                     OF 1933 AND SECTION  21C OF THE 
                                             SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, 
Respondent.                                  MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A 
                                             CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER  AND 
                                             PENALTIES  
 
       
                                           I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act 
of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 
Act”), against William C. Enloe (“Respondent”).   
                                             
                                           II. 
                                             
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided in Section V herein, Respondent consents 
to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A of the 
Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, 
and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order and Penalties (“Order”), as set forth below.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                III. 
 
                                                                                 1
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds    that:    

                                            Summary 

       This proceeding resulted from the failure of Trinity Capital Corporation and its wholly-
owned subsidiary, Los Alamos National Bank (collectively, “Trinity” or “the Bank”), to account 
properly for the Bank’s loan portfolio during 2010, 2011 and the first two quarters of 2012 (the 
“Relevant Periods”), and to account properly for its real estate held as a result of foreclosures 
(referred to as “other real estate owned” or “OREO”) in 2011.   

       By 2009, as the New Mexico economy declined during the financial crisis, the Bank 
experienced an increase in delinquent and problem loans and a decrease in the collateral values 
supporting its loan and OREO portfolio, requiring the Bank to record loan and OREO losses.  
Enloe and other former members of Trinity’s management caused the Bank to engage in false and 
misleading accounting and reporting that concealed the Bank’s loan delinquencies and declining 
collateral values and to hide the true value of its loan and OREO portfolio.  This conduct resulted 
in the Bank materially misstating its provision for loan losses on its income statement and its 
allowance for loan and lease losses (“ALLL”) on its balance sheet during the Relevant Periods, 
including in its quarterly and annual filings with the Commission during 2010, 2011, and the first 
two quarters of 2012, and understating its OREO losses in 2011.  This conduct by Enloe and other 
former members of the Bank’s management was aided by the Bank’s deficient internal accounting 
controls over loan and OREO accounting, as well as the overriding of internal accounting controls 
by Enloe and other employees and former members of management. 

       While serving as the CEO of the Bank, Enloe facilitated the false and misleading 
accounting by pressuring loan officers to engage in improper conduct that kept the Bank from 
properly recording losses on its financial statements.  Specifically, Enloe instructed and 
encouraged loan officers and others:  (1) not to downgrade loans that were delinquent; (2) to make 
delinquent loans appear to be paying on time; (3) not to identify loans for which the Bank was not 
going to be paid in full; and (4) not to accurately value the Bank’s collateral.  In addition, Enloe 
circumvented the Bank’s internal controls by, among other things:  (a) permitting the extension of 
additional credit to delinquent borrowers without the appropriate financial analysis or supervisory 
approval; (b) improperly rejecting appraisals that evidenced declining values for real estate that 
collateralized loans; and (c) continuing to act as a loan officer when he had no lending authority.  
The fraudulent conduct was also aided by Enloe’s failure to implement sufficient internal controls 
over financial reporting at the Bank. 

                                           Respondent 

       1.      William C. Enloe is a 66-year-old resident of Los Alamos, New Mexico.  Enloe 
worked at the Bank from 1971 until his employment concluded on February 1, 2013.  From 1979 
                                                 
1
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                                 2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

until 1994 he was the President of Trinity, and from 1994 to February 1, 2013, Enloe served as 
Trinity’s CEO.  Enloe is now employed by a private company.      

                                         Related Entity 

       2.      Trinity Capital Corporation is a New Mexico corporation headquartered in Los 
Alamos, New Mexico.  Trinity is the holding company of Los Alamos National Bank, a national 
banking organization with $1.4 billion in assets.  Trinity’s common stock is registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act; however, its stock is not listed on any 
automated quotation system or securities exchange and no firm makes a market in its stock.  In 
2010, Trinity issued common stock under a registration statement filed on Form S-8 (Registration 
No. 333-126980, filed July 28, 2005).  In 2012, Trinity awarded Restricted Stock Units to certain 
personnel under the same registration statement.  The registration statement incorporated by 
reference subsequent filings, including Trinity’s 2010 Forms 10-Q and 10-K, 2011 Forms 10-Q 
and 10-K, and 2012 Forms 10-Q.   

                                              Facts 

       3.      During 2010, 2011, and the first two quarters of 2012 (the “Relevant Periods”), 
Trinity failed to properly account for the Bank’s loan portfolio and OREO.  As a result, the Bank 
filed inaccurate periodic reports with the Commission in 2010, 2011, and the first two quarters of 
2012. 

       4.      On December 12, 2014, Trinity filed its Form 10-K for the year ended December 
31, 2013, which included the restatement of Trinity’s consolidated financial data for the year ended 
December 31, 2011 and the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2012 and June 30, 2012, and the 
restated, unaudited, selected consolidated financial data for the year ended December 31, 2010.  
According to its restatement, Trinity’s provision for loan losses was understated by $6.8 million 
(25%) in 2010, $22.3 million (73%) in 2011, and $4.5 million (68%) in the first quarter of 2012.  
Trinity overstated its provision for loan losses for the second quarter of 2012 by $2.3 million 
(31%).  Additionally, in 2011, Trinity’s OREO losses were understated by $364,000 (10%).  The 
restatement noted that these failures were caused in part by the override of controls by certain 
former members of management because of Trinity’s insufficient internal accounting controls, 
including controls in the loan department, internal audit, and loan accounting.  The restatement 
also identified material weaknesses in Trinity’s internal controls over financial reporting. 

       5.      During the time period at issue, the Bank’s loan policies required that loans be 
assigned one of seven descending grades based on the decreasing likelihood that the loan principal 
and interest would be collected.  As discussed herein, the Bank was thereafter required under 
relevant accounting principles to recognize and/or reserve against likely loan losses.  Enloe, 
directly and through instructions to lower-level employees, caused the Bank to materially misstate 
its ALLL and loan loss provision by: (1) pressuring loan officers not to downgrade troubled loans; 
(2) instructing and encouraging loan officers and others to modify loan terms and extend additional 
credit to delinquent borrowers to make unpaid loans falsely appear to be current; (3) failing to 
identify loans that were not going to be paid in full – including loans where the Bank granted 
concessions to the borrowers through restructured terms, known as troubled debt restructurings 

                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

(“TDRs”); and (4) failing to utilize accurate collateral valuations on impaired loans.  In 2011, the 
Bank and Enloe failed properly to value and account for impairments to its OREO by not using 
appraisals that indicated that the value of OREO properties had decreased and that OREO write-
downs were required.   

                                  Failure To Downgrade Loans 

       6.      During the Relevant Periods, the Bank’s loan department operated under a culture 
that discouraged downgrading loans to special mention or substandard since the downgrading 
would lead to the recording of additional losses.  Loans were to be graded special mention when 
they had potential weaknesses that deserved management’s close attention.  Loans were to be 
graded substandard when they demonstrated a well-defined weakness.  Loan officers were under 
pressure from Enloe and other members of management to avoid having “bad loans” in their loan 
portfolios, including any loans that were graded below pass and loans that were more than 30 days 
past due.  As a result, the Bank’s loan department ignored and hid loan weaknesses that required 
downgrades and waited as long as possible to downgrade loans below pass, which sometimes 
included waiting until the loan was at or over 90 days past due, or until the loan was selected for 
review by a third party and was therefore at risk for being identified as a grade “miss.” These 
grading errors resulted in the Bank understating its ALLL because its lower graded loans carried a 
higher historical loss rate, which would have required additional losses and increased the ALLL. 

       7.      Enloe and the Bank’s loan department undertook steps to prevent downgrades on 
certain loan relationships, including authorizing checking account overdrafts and the extension of 
additional credit to borrowers who were unable to make their required principal and interest 
payments on their existing debt.  Sometimes this additional credit would be granted using loans 
referred to as “ABC Loans,” which stood for “Additional Balance Club Loans.”  The additional 
credit was used to make required payments on the existing debt, which would result in the 
borrower appearing current on loan payments when, in fact, the Bank was not actually making any 
collections from the borrower. 

       8.      Enloe, other former members of the Bank’s management, and loan department 
employees circumvented and ignored internal accounting controls by failing to downgrade troubled 
loan relationships.  For example, in one instance, Enloe extended credit to a borrower without the 
required credit analyses being completed.  In another instance, a borrower’s loans were first 
downgraded from pass to substandard by the internal audit department in late March 2011, were 
then updated to pass at Enloe’s direction in early April 2011, and were then again downgraded to 
substandard in May 2011 when the borrower appeared on a list of loans to be reviewed by a third 
party. 

       9.      In the case of one borrower and his associated entities, approximately $8.8 million 
in loans were improperly graded as pass during nearly all of the Relevant Periods.  In connection 
with these loans, Enloe established a practice, followed by loan department employees, of using a 
variety of techniques to ignore and hide the borrower’s troubled financial situation, including 
granting additional credit to the borrower for the purpose of making payments on existing loans 
and modifying the loans and granting the borrower concessions without downgrading the loans or 

                                                4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                          2
evaluating them as TDRs.      Enloe and other members of the Bank’s management did not follow up 
on certain Bank employees’ concerns regarding the manner in which the Bank was managing and 
accounting for these loans.  Further, Enloe and other former members of the Bank’s management 
and loan department employees undertook efforts to prevent the OCC, the Board, and other Bank 
personnel from reviewing this borrower’s loans and discovering the troubled nature of the 
borrower. 

       10.    In another instance, Enloe authorized numerous extensions to a borrower that 
delayed the borrower’s repayment of the loans.  The borrower’s financial situation and payment 
history clearly indicated that he was struggling to make his payments in accordance with the terms 
of his notes; nonetheless, at Enloe’s direction, the loan officer continued to extend additional credit 
to make interest payments and to provide renewals and extensions to prevent the borrower from 
appearing on the Bank’s past due list.  Under Enloe’s direction, this borrower’s loans were not 
handled in accordance with the Bank’s internal policies and procedures.  Further, in at least one 
instance, Enloe had the loan department provide the borrower additional funds in the name of his 
entity so it would not be readily apparent that a loan payment was made through the extension of 
additional credit. 

                    Failure To Measure Individual Loan Impairments Properly 

       11.    The Bank also made material errors by failing to measure properly the loss for 
individually impaired loans.  A loan is impaired when it is probable a creditor will be unable to 
collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement.  If a loan is 
individually impaired, the amount of impairment must be measured and recorded as a loss with a 
corresponding amount recorded to the ALLL.  Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
(“GAAP”) permits the impairment to be measured using the fair value of the underlying collateral 
if the loan is collateral dependent, which is the method the Bank typically utilized.  GAAP requires 
that the best information available in the circumstances be used to determine fair value.   

       12.    Among other things, appraisals were used to value the Bank’s collateral that was 
used to measure the loss on impaired collateral-dependent loans.  For purposes of measuring the 
impairment on a collateral-dependent loan, the Bank was required to consider the current condition 
                                                                                3
of the property, which can be accomplished by using an “as-is” appraisal value.   However, in at 
least two instances, Enloe directed the use of higher “as stabilized” or “as completed” values in 
measuring impairment losses when an as-is appraisal value should have been used.   

       13.    One example involved a $4.2 million loan that was substandard and impaired 
during the Relevant Periods.  In 2010, at the direction of Enloe, the Bank used an as-stabilized 
appraisal based on the hypothetical value of the project assuming construction was completed and 
operating profitably.  The Bank then subtracted the cost-to-complete as provided by the borrower.  
                                                 
2
 Pursuant to GAAP, a restructuring of a debt constitutes a TDR if the creditor grants a concession to the 
debtor due to the debtor's financial difficulties. 
3
 ASC 820-10-20 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset in an orderly 
transaction between market participants as of the measurement date.  The as-is appraisal considers the 
conditions of the property as of the measurement date, while the as-completed and as-stabilized appraisals 
do not. 
                                                 5  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

In the second half of 2011, the Bank obtained updated cost estimates that, if utilized, would have 
resulted in an impairment loss of approximately $1 million; however, Enloe ignored those updated 
cost-to-complete estimates.  In the second quarter of 2012, the Bank finally received an appraisal 
that included an “as-is” value, which would have required an impairment loss of approximately 
$3.7 million.  Enloe “rejected” the appraisal, requested it be deleted from the Bank’s electronic 
loan file, and the Bank continued to use the 2010 as-stabilized appraisal less the outdated cost to 
complete numbers.  The resulting improper valuations on this loan resulted in the Bank avoiding 
approximately $3.7 million in impairment losses throughout 2011 and in the first two quarters of 
2012.   

       14.    In another instance, the Bank ignored an appraisal valuing the collateral supporting 
an $8.9 million loan that was substandard and impaired.  Throughout 2011 and the first two 
quarters of 2012, the Bank measured the loan’s impairment by relying on a February 2011 
appraisal that valued the property at approximately $15.9 million.  In March 2012, the Bank was 
notified that the property had been appraised in January 2012 in connection with foreclosure 
litigation.  Using the January 2012 appraisal would have resulted in an impairment loss of 
approximately $3 million.  At Enloe’s direction, the Bank disregarded the January 2012 appraisal, 
ordered another appraisal from a different appraiser, and continued to solely rely on the outdated 
February 2011 appraisal in accounting for the loan for the year-end 2011 and in the first two 
quarters of 2012, thereby avoiding recognizing loan losses totaling approximately $3 million.   

       15.    In another example, the Bank participated in a $20.5 million loan that was 
substandard and impaired throughout the Relevant Periods.  In calculating the impairment 
throughout the Relevant Periods, Enloe directed that the Bank use the “as-stabilized” value of $32 
million from a January 2010 appraisal and $27.4 million from a January 2011 appraisal.  These 
“as-stabilized” values significantly overstated the fair value of the collateral, however, because 
they assumed significant changes to the property’s operations, none of which occurred during the 
Relevant Periods.   

       16.    In connection with that same loan, Enloe ignored other material information 
relevant to the property’s value that indicated that the loan required a significant impairment loss, 
including a listing agreement that listed the property for sale at a price that was millions of dollars 
below the appraised “as-stabilized” values.  Enloe also responded to inquiries of multiple potential 
buyers that the Bank was willing to accept a sales price that was millions of dollars below the 
appraised “as-stabilized” values.  In addition, Enloe knew that another bank with an interest in the 
loan was accounting for the loan based on a collateral value of $13 million, and that an internal 
Bank analysis showed that the property could be worth $14 to $15 million assuming some 
improvements to the property’s operating condition.  By failing to measure the impairment on this 
loan properly, Enloe caused the Bank to avoid recording approximately $8.9 million of loan losses 
throughout the Relevant Periods.   

       17.    Similarly, on another loan for $2.7 million, the Bank avoided a $1.1 million 
impairment loss in 2011 by ignoring clear evidence of a lower collateral value.  In February 2012, 
the Bank consented to a letter of intent for the sale of a loan’s collateral so long as the Bank 
obtained $1.65 million from the sale.  In accounting for the loan in the first quarter of 2012, 

                                                 6  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

however, at Enloe’s direction, the Bank ignored the letter of intent and instead used the outstanding 
loan balance of $2.7 million as the collateral value. 

       18.    Enloe also avoided necessary write downs on OREO properties by interfering with 
Trinity’s appraisal process and obtaining appraisals late.  For example, in early 2011, the Bank was 
in the process of foreclosing on a facility that was held as collateral on a loan.  The facility had 
appraised for $1 million in February 2010, but in March 2011 the bank received a new appraisal 
that valued the property at $550,000.  Enloe directed the loan department not to use the March 
2011 appraisal and to hire a different appraiser to conduct another appraisal.  On June 22, 2011, the 
Bank received a new appraisal, which valued the property at $382,000.  Upon receiving an 
appraisal with an even lower value, Enloe instructed the loan department to use the March 2011 
appraisal with the value of $550,000.  As a result of this conduct, the Bank improperly failed to 
recognize approximately $444,000 of impairment losses as of March 30, 2011. 

              Circumventing and Failing to Implement Internal Accounting Controls 

       19.    The material misstatements and the conduct by certain former members of Bank 
management, including Enloe, were facilitated by the intentional circumvention of internal 
accounting controls, but were also aided by Enloe’s failure to devise and maintain a system of 
internal accounting controls.   

       20.    During the Relevant Periods, Enloe failed to implement sufficient internal 
accounting controls over the periodic review of loans to ensure loans were accurately graded and to 
identify troubled and impaired loans.  Further, due to Enloe’s influence, the Bank’s internal audit 
department was not independent from management and, as a result, the Bank’s Audit Committee 
was not always provided with complete and independent internal audit findings.  The Bank’s 
internal audit department also lacked a formalized risk assessment process and, as a result, did not 
sufficiently consider risks in financial reporting in establishing audit procedures.   

       21.    Enloe also circumvented the Bank’s processes and internal accounting controls over 
TDRs, impaired loan loss calculations, and appraisals.  As noted above, Enloe was involved in 
loans that relied upon stale appraisals and collateral values improperly based on “as-stabilized” 
valuations.  Enloe also ignored appraisals that came in with valuations that would result in charge 
offs.  By circumventing the Bank’s processes and controls in these ways, Enloe caused the Bank to 
materially misstate its ALLL and loan loss provision. 

       22.    Enloe also failed to implement sufficient internal controls over the accounting for 
ABC Loans and the analysis of TDRs.  For example, the Bank’s internal loan approval and credit 
review processes failed to require an analysis of whether a loan modification or extension was a 
TDR.  Similarly, in some instances, feedback and working papers from independent, third-party 
loan reviews indicated that a TDR analysis should be performed on specific loans; however, there 
were no controls in place to confirm that this feedback was reviewed, noted, and acted upon.  
Further, during the Relevant Periods, TDRs were rarely discussed within the loan department, and 
employees were not properly instructed as to how and when to analyze modifications as potential 
TDRs.  Finally, numerous loans should have been evaluated as TDRs because a new loan was 

                                                7  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

provided to pay interest or principal due on an existing loan.  Enloe and the Bank’s loan policy 
failed to consider whether this situation resulted in a “concession.”   

       23.    Enloe failed to devise and maintain internal accounting controls sufficient to 
provide reasonable assurances that the Bank’s accounting for impaired loans was in conformity 
with GAAP.  Loan department personnel calculating the impaired loan losses did not possess 
sufficient accounting expertise and there was not adequate involvement or review by the 
accounting department.  As a result, errors occurred in the calculation of impaired loan losses.   

       24.    Enloe also failed to implement sufficient internal controls over appraisals.  While 
the appraisal process was to be separate and independent from the loan department, in practice, 
loan department employees were charged with determining when appraisals would be ordered on 
classified loans.  Further, at the direction of certain former members of the Bank’s management 
and loan department, including Enloe, appraisals were sometimes not ordered timely, delayed, or 
ordered without the standard request for an “as-is” fair value.  The accounting department was not 
automatically notified when appraisals were received, which meant that it was not always aware of 
appraisals relevant to impairment measurements.   

       25.    Additionally, appraisals and other information were not always used, as required by 
GAAP, in the Bank’s loan impairment accounting.  Enloe was aware of this by at least 2009 when 
the Bank’s outside auditor found a $2.2 million accounting error.  Nonetheless, Enloe failed to 
implement controls to adequately address this issue and, throughout the Relevant Periods, the 
Bank’s internal audit and accounting departments continued to stumble across appraisals that had 
not been considered in the Bank’s accounting. 

       26.      Enloe also failed to implement sufficient internal accounting controls over the 
Bank’s processes and computerized systems that housed appraisals and loan information.  Controls 
                                                                                         
were inadequate to ensure all received appraisals were preserved in the Bank’s database. 
Numerous employees, including loan officers, had edit rights to these systems allowing them to 
alter or delete data about loans, appraisals, collateral values and customers.   Because of these 
inadequacies, employees could delete appraisals or change collateral values without documenting 
why the alterations were made.  When appraisals and collateral values were deleted, the result was 
that information was not made available to the OCC and other third parties, as well as other Bank 
employees. 

                              Misleading Statements to Accountants 

       27.    Enloe also made, or caused to be made, misleading statements to the Bank’s 
accountants.  For example, Enloe was aware of false and misleading information in impairment 
memos that were provided to internal accountants and the external auditors, including incorrect 
impairment calculations on loans that understated losses.  Enloe was also aware of material 
information regarding the Bank’s loan portfolio that was not provided to the external auditors, 
including evidence of significant borrower relationships where the borrowers were delinquent or 
had indicated an inability to pay and yet the Bank did not downgrade the loans below pass or 
designate the loans as impaired.   

                                                8  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

                                        False Certifications 

       28.    As CEO, during all Relevant Periods, Enloe signed certifications pursuant to 
Sections 302 and 906 of SOX in which he certified, among other things, that:  (1) the information 
contained in the reports fairly presented, in all material respects, the financial condition and results 
of Trinity; (2) the financial statements were free of material misstatements and omissions; (3) he 
had disclosed any fraud involving management or other employees who had a significant role in 
the company’s internal control over financial reporting; and (4) he had designed, or caused to be 
designed, internal controls over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in 
accordance with GAAP.  Nevertheless, during all Relevant Periods, Enloe knew about:  (i) false 
and misleading information in impairment memos that made the information presented in Trinity’s 
quarterly and annual reports not fairly present the Bank’s financial condition and results; (ii) 
material misstatements and omissions in the Bank’s financial statements tied to the Bank’s loan 
portfolio; (iii) Trinity’s failure to follow GAAP and its own loan policy in grading loans, 
designating loans as impaired, and designating loans as TDRs; and (iv) insufficient internal 
accounting controls over properly measuring impaired loans, use of ABC loans, appraisals, and the 
Bank’s processes and computerized systems that housed appraisals and loan information.  

                        Enloe Controlled and Directed Trinity’s Violations 

       29.     Enloe, as the CEO of Trinity, had management authority over Trinity, and did in fact 
control and direct Trinity’s loan and OREO accounting.  Further, as set forth above, Enloe orchestrated 
and was directly involved in Trinity’s fraudulent financial reporting.    

                                            Violations 

       30.    As a result of the conduct described above, Enloe violated Section 10(b) of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in connection with 
the purchase or sale of securities. 

       31.    As a result of the conduct described above, Enloe violated Sections 17(a)(1) and (3) 
of the Securities Act, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in connection with the offer or sale of 
securities. 

       32.    As a result of the conduct described above, Enloe violated Section 13(b)(5) of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder, which prohibit persons from knowingly circumventing 
or knowingly failing to implement a system of internal accounting controls, or knowingly 
falsifying any book, record, or account. 

       33.    As a result of the conduct described above, Enloe violated Rule 13b2-2 of the 
Exchange Act, which prohibits any officer from either (1) making or causing to be made a 
materially false or misleading statement to an accountant, or (2) omitting to state, or causing 
another person to omit to state, any material fact necessary in order to make statements made, in 
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading, to an 
accountant, in connection with any audit, review, or examination of the financial statements of 
an issuer. 
                                                 9  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

       34.    As a result of the certifications described above, Enloe violated Rule 13a-14 of the 
Exchange Act, which requires that each report filed on Forms 10-Q and10-K include 
certifications signed by the principal executive and principal financial officer of the issuer. 

       35.    As a result of the conduct described above, Enloe caused Trinity’s violation of 
Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct 
in connection with the purchase or sale of securities. 

       36.    As a result of the conduct described above, Enloe caused Trinity’s violations of 
Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, which prohibits fraudulent conduct in connection with the offer 
or sale of securities. 

       37.    As a result of the conduct described above, Enloe caused Trinity’s violations of 
Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder, which require 
every issuer of a security registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act to file with the 
Commission information, documents, and annual and quarterly reports as the Commission may 
require, and mandate that periodic reports contain such further material information as may be 
necessary to make the required statements not misleading. 

       38.    As a result of the conduct described above, Enloe caused Trinity’s violations of 
Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to make and keep 
books, records, and accounts, which in reasonable detail, accurately reflect their transactions and 
dispositions of their assets. 

       39.    As a result of the conduct described above, Enloe caused Trinity’s violations of 
Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, which require all reporting companies to devise and 
maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles; and prohibit persons from knowingly circumventing 
or knowingly failing to implement a system of internal accounting controls, knowingly falsifying 
any book, record, or account, and directly or indirectly falsifying or causing to be falsified any 
book, record, or account. 

                                               IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 

       A.     Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and Section 21C of the Exchange Act, 
Respondent Enloe cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future 
violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 
13(b)(2)(B), and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-13, 13a-14, 
13b2-1, and 13b2-2 thereunder.  

                                                10   
---------------------Page 11---------------------

       B.     Pursuant to Section 8A(f) of the Securities Act and Section 21C(f) of the Exchange 
Act, Respondent Enloe is prohibited for a period of 5 years from acting as an officer or director of 
an issuer that has a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act or that 
is required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.  

       C.     Respondent shall, within 20 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money 
penalty in the amount of $250,000.00 to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The 
Commission may distribute civil money penalties collected in this proceeding if, in its discretion, 
the Commission orders the establishment of a Fair Fund pursuant to 15 U.S.C. § 7246, Section 
308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended. The Commission will hold funds paid 
pursuant to this paragraph in an account at the United States Treasury pending a decision whether 
the Commission, in its discretion, will seek to distribute funds or, subject to Exchange Act Section 
21F(g)(3), transfer them to the general fund of the United States Treasury.  If payment is not made 
by the date required by this Order, the balance of the civil penalty, plus any additional interest 
accrued pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, shall be due and payable immediately, at the discretion of the 
Commission staff, without further application.  Payment must be made in one of the following 
ways:   

       (1)     Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will 
               provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
        
       (2)     Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through the 
               SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
        
       (3)     Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States 
               postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and 
               hand-delivered or mailed to:  
        
                      Enterprise Services Center 
                      Accounts Receivable Branch 
                      HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                      6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                      Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
William C. Enloe as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; 
a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Tom Krysa, Division of 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 1961 Stout Street, Suite 1700, Denver, 
CO  80294-1961.   
 
       D.     Regardless of whether any such Fair Fund distribution is made, amounts ordered 
to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be treated as penalties paid to the 
government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To preserve the deterrent effect of the 
civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor Action, he shall not argue that he is 
entitled to, nor shall he benefit by, offset or reduction of any award of compensatory damages by 
the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil penalty in this action ("Penalty 

                                               11   
---------------------Page 12---------------------

Offset").  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondent 
agrees that he shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify 
the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the 
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil 
penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty imposed in this 
proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" means a private 
damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based on 
substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this 
proceeding.  

                                                V. 
        
       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth 
in Section 523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and 
admitted by Respondent, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil 
penalty or other amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other judgment, order, 
consent order, decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt 
for the violation by Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued 
under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
                                                     Brent J. Fields 
                                                     Secretary 

                                                12   
