---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                      the 

 SECURITIES                      AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 9237 / July 14, 2011 
 
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940                 
Release No. 3239 / July 14, 2011 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3303 / July 14, 2011 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-14467 
                                            ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
In the Matter of                            DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
                                            SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT 
      Joseph F. Sofo, CPA,                  OF 1933 AND SECTION 203(k) OF THE 
                                            INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,  
Respondent.                                 MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A 
                                            CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER  
 
  
                                          I.  
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act 
of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers 
Act”) against Joseph F. Sofo (“Sofo” or “Respondent”).   
                                            
                                          II.  
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party  and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 203(k) of 
the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
 
 

                                           1 

---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  1
                                                                                  that: 
        
                                          Introduction 
 
       1.       Sofo, age 49, is a certified public accountant who resides in Roslyn Heights, New  
York, and is licensed to practice in New York and the U.S. Virgin Islands.  Sofo was the audit  
engagement partner for Kurcias, Jaffe & Co. LLP (“Kurcias Jaffe”), a Great Neck, New York  
accounting firm that conducted yearly audits of the North American Globex Fund, L.P. (“Fund” or 
“Globex Fund”).  Sofo was responsible for the Fund’s audits from 2001 through February 2009.  
These proceedings arise out of Sofo’s false statements that the 2005 and 2006 year-end audits of the 
Globex Fund were conducted in accordance with Generally Accepted Auditing Standards 
(“GAAS”) and that the financial statements had been presented in accordance with Generally 
Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”).  
 
                                            Findings  
                                                  
       2.       Northstar International Group, Inc. (“Northstar”) is a Nevada corporation located   
in Oceanside, New York.  It is the general partner and, thus, the investment adviser of the Globex 
Fund, a Nevada limited partnership and a pooled investment vehicle through which the assets of its  
limited partners are invested in a wide variety of securities and other financial instruments.  The 
Globex Fund purported to keep the vast majority of its holdings in a related entity known as the 
North American Globex Group, Inc. (“Group” or “Globex Group”).  James M. Peister founded 
Northstar in 2000 and has served as its president and CEO since then. 
 
       3.       From 2003 until April 2009, Peister and Northstar intentionally overstated the  
assets of the Globex Fund, resulting in the dissemination of materially false and misleading asset 
values and performance figures to investors and prospective investors.  Peister and Northstar 
concealed the true state of the Fund’s finances by maintaining the Fund’s assets in the Globex 
Group, and keeping the Group’s bank and brokerage statements secret from the auditors.  Peister  
controlled all of the operations and activities of the Globex Fund, Northstar and the Globex Group.  
Sofo was aware of Peister’s control of these three entities, and that the Fund and the Group were  
related parties.  Sofo also knew that the vast majority of the Fund’s assets were purportedly held by 
the Globex Group.  Neither Peister nor any of the entities mentioned here have been registered as 
an investment company or investment adviser with the Commission or any state. 
 
       4.      During the relevant period, Peister and Northstar made claims of  
extraordinarily consistent returns and provided this information to investors and potential 
investors through reports, account statements, audited financial statements and internet hedge 
fund websites.  These returns were based in large part on the assets the Fund claimed to hold in 
the Group. 
                                                 
       1 
         The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding   
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.                 

                                                2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
       5.      The chart below shows the assets the Fund claimed were held at Globex Group  
and the verifiable approximate total investments actually held by the Group.    
 
   Year                Assets the Fund Claimed                Total Investment Assets Actually 
                     to Hold at the Globex Group                 Held By the Globex Group 
    2004     $9,551,802 (85% of the Fund’s total assets)                   $455,000 

    2005     $10,842,625 (70% of the Fund’s total assets                   $65,000 

    2006     $13,213,249 (89% of the Fund’s total assets)                  $73,000 

    2007     $14,564,461 (94% of the Fund’s total assets)                   $6,000 

    2008     $6,129,486 (87% of the Fund’s total assets)                    $8,000 

 
       6.      As a result of the overstatement of assets held at the Globex Group, investors  
received materially false account  statements about the Globex Fund’s value and performance.  
These inflated assets and performance calculations were reflected in audited year-end financial  
statements, among other places. 
 
       7.      On the basis of this conduct, Peister  and Northstar are the subject of an  
enforcement action by the Commission and have agreed to be enjoined from future violations of 
certain provisions of the securities laws. 
                                                 
       8.      Kurcias Jaffe was hired to audit the financial statements of the Globex Fund  
for the year ended December 31, 2001.  They issued an unqualified opinion on that year and every 
year thereafter, ending with their opinion on the 2006 financial statements, which were issued on 
December 11, 2007.  Before taking on this engagement, Kurcias Jaffe did not have any expertise in 
auditing hedge funds.  In fact, the Globex Fund was its only hedge fund client.   
 
       9.      As the engagement partner for Kurcias Jaffe, Sofo represented that the audits were 
conducted in accordance with GAAS, and was required, among other things, to ensure that the 
audit work was adequately performed and supported the conclusions presented in Kurcias Jaffe’s 
audit opinions. 
 
       10.     Kurcias Jaffe’s audit opinions stated that the financial statements  
were prepared in conformity with GAAP and had been audited in accordance with GAAS.  In fact, 
the Globex Fund’s financial statements were not prepared in conformity with GAAP and had not 
been audited in accordance with GAAS.  The audit reports were nonetheless provided to investors 
and prospective investors, and thus permitted Peister’s and Northstar’s fraud to continue.   
 
 
 
 
                                               3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                    Audit of the North American Globex Fund for 2004-05 
 
       11.     In conducting the audits in question, Sofo ignored the requirements of GAAS and  
relied on a flawed confirmation process.  Though Sofo understood the Fund and the Group were  
related parties and that both entities were controlled by Peister, the audits in years 2004-2005 were  
quite limited.  Sofo merely obtained representations from Peister, in his role as the Group’s 
president, “confirming” the value of the Fund’s assets being held by th e Group.  Sofo did no 
further work to verify these balances. 
 
       12.    These confirmations were of almost no value from an audit perspective because 
GAAS requires that “[t]he auditor should direct the confirmation request to a third party who the  
auditor believes is knowledgeable about the information to be confirmed.”  AU § 330.26, The 
Confirmation Process (emphasis added).  The confirmation requests to the Group were sent to a 
related party—in substance, the very same  party—in clear contravention of GAAS.   
        
       13.    Though Sofo understood that Peister controlled both the Fund and the Group and 
that the Fund and the Group were related parties, he accepted the assertions of Peister as the only 
audit evidence for the balance of the Fund’s assets held by the Group.  GAAS requires that “[a]fter 
identifying related party transactions, the auditor should apply the procedures . . . directed toward 
obtaining and evaluating sufficient appropriate audit evidence and should extend beyond inquiry 
of management.”  AU § 334.09, Related Parties.  But relying solely on an assertion from the Fund 
management is precisely what Sofo did, without obtaining any other audit evidence. 
        
       14.    For the 2004-05 audit, Sofo failed to exercise due care, appropriate professional 
skepticism, or obtain sufficient competent evidential matter.  In the planning phases of the audit, 
Globex Group was identified as a fraud risk yet the additional steps listed in the audit workpapers  
for the 2005 audit to combat this risk were not taken.    
            
       15.    The result was the Fund’s audited financial statements were materially misstated.  
The statements for 2004 and 2005 show the balance in the “Due  from North American Globex 
Group” line item to be $9,551,802 for 2004 and $10,842,625 for 2005.  In reality, the actual 
verifiable investment assets held by the Group were about $455,000 at the end of 2004 and 
$65,000 at the end of 2005 — much less than what were reported in the audited statements. 
        
                    Audit of the North American Globex Fund for 2005-06 
        
       16.    For the 2005-06 audit, Sofo again failed to exercise due care, appropriate 
professional skepticism, or to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter.  Once again, in the 
planning phases of the audit, Globex Group was identified as a fraud risk yet the additional steps 
listed in the audit workpapers for the 2006 audit to combat this risk were not taken.    
 
       17.    In 2006, Sofo changed his approach in form but not in substance as to the 
confirmation of the Fund’s assets held at the Group.  Sofo attempted to get confirmation of the 
Fund’s balance held at the Group from the Group’s accountant, who was also Peister’s personal 

                                               4
  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

accountant.  Under GAAS, confirmation from the accountant did not constitute sufficient audit 
evidence because the accountant was not a third party as required by GAAS.  AU § 330.26.                                    
        
       18.     Still, Kurcias Jaffe staff first reached out to the accountant on May 2, 2007.  After 
several exchanges between Kurcias Jaffe and the accountant spanning five months, Sofo had still 
not received what he considered to be a sufficient confirmation from the accountant.    
        
       19.     On October 16, 2007 the accountant wrote with respect to the supposed $13,213,249 
balance due to the Fund from the Group:  “The balance is correct based on statements provided to me  
by North American Globex Group.  I have not audited nor reviewed this information and therefore  
cannot make any opinion on it.”  Sofo was aware he could not rely on this statement as a  
confirmation.   
        
       20. On November 13,       2007, the accountant slightly revised his October 16 statement  
regarding the supposed $13,213,249:  “The balance is correct based on statements provided to me 
by North American Globex Group.  These statements from [the Group] that I provide for [the 
Fund] are generated from the electronic online printout of the consolidated online brokerage 
statements provided by Technicom.”  Sofo understood from Fund insiders that Technicom was an 
on-line consolidation of all the brokerage accounts at the Group and that the accountant had access 
to this.  However, Technicom was not an on-line consolidation of all the brokerage accounts held  
at the Group.  Regardless of  what he was told, Sofo should have learned for himself what 
Technicom was, but he did not.  Auditing guidance states that “the auditor should perform audit 
procedures in addition to the use of inquiry to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence.” AU § 
326.35, Audit Evidence.  
        
       21.      On November 15, 2007, Sofo emailed Peister and others stating that he wanted the 
year-end statements for the Group accounts that were holding the Fund’s assets.  He also requested 
the contact information for the brokers of the accounts so he could get confirmation from them  
directly.  Sofo noted that “[d]ue to the relationship between Globex Fund and Globex Group, as well 
as the fact that the majority of the Funds [sic] assets are held with the Group, these audit procedures  
are necessary in order for us to issue an audit opinion on the Fund.”  However, Peister declined to 
give these items to Sofo, and Sofo did not pursue the matter further.    
        
       22.     On December 11, 2007, the accountant sent Kurcias Jaffe a compilation report along 
with the Group’s balance sheet, which showed $13,213,249 was due to the Fund.  The accountant 
also sent a list of brokerage accounts with corresponding dollar figures that totaled $13,213,249.  
Even though the accountant stated in his compilation report that “[a] compilation is . . . the  
representation of management” and that he did “not express  an opinion or any other form of 
assurance on [the accompanying balance sheet],”   Sofo was satisfied with this audit evidence, and 
that day issued an unqualified opinion of the financial statements for 2006 and 2005.   
        
       23.     In the end the accountant’s “confirmation” was inadequate, and the compilation of 
the Group’s balance sheet the accountant prepared did not offer any audit assurance.  In sum, Sofo  
failed to exercise due professional care, professional skepticism, and failed to obtain sufficient 
competent evidential matter to support Kurcias Jaffe’s unqualified audit opinions.  

                                                5
  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

        
       24.     The result was the Fund’s audited financial statements were materially misstated.  
The 2006 audited financial statements showed the balance in the “Investments held by North 
American Globex Group Inc.” line  item to be $13,213,249 for 2006.  In fact, the total verifiable 
investment assets actually held by the Group were approximately $73,000 as of December 2006— 
much less than what was reported in the statements.   
        
       25.     Sofo also allowed the Fund to make materially false representations in the footnotes 
to the 2006 financial statements.  Note J of those statements stated, “NAGG [the Group] is not 
independently audited.  However, our auditors have received confirmation from NAGG’s 
independent accountant confirming NAGG’s assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2006 and the 
changes in NAGG’s net assets for the year ended December 31, 2006.”  Sofo allowed the language 
“independent accountant” and “confirmation” even though (1) the accountant was not independent of  
the Group, and (2) the accountant had not  confirmed anything.  Kurcias Jaffe did not receive a 
confirmation of the Group’s assets and liabilities but a compilation, which explicitly offered no 
assurance to the reader of the financial statements.    
  
       26.     Sofo also added an emphasis-of-a-matter paragraph to  the unqualified audit opinion 
drawing attention to Note J.  This action, in effect, gave the appearance that the information 
contained in Note J was particularly informative when in fact, the information was materially 
inaccurate.   
 
       27.     Sofo was aware that the Fund’s private placement memorandum, which names 
Sofo explicitly and which Kurcias Jaffe had a copy of in its audit workpapers, stated that the 
limited partners were supposed to receive a copy of the audited financial statements.  Also, in at 
least one instance Sofo himself sent the 2006 audit opinion and audited financial statements to a  
limited partner.   
 
       28.     As a result of the conduct described above, Sofo was a cause of Peister’s and 
Northstar’s violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act.  Section 17(a)(2) of the 
Securities Act specifically prohibits any untrue statements of material fact or material omissions in 
the offer or sale of securities.  Section 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act prohibits engaging in a course 
of business which operates as a fraud or deceit in the offer or sale of securities. 
        
       29.     As a result of the conduct described above, Sofo was a cause of Peister’s and 
Northstar’s violations of Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-8 thereunder which 
prohibits fraudulent conduct and makes it fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative act, practice, or 
course of business for any investment adviser to a pooled investment vehicle to make false or 
misleading statements to investors or prospective investors in the pooled investment vehicle. 
        
                                               IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Sofo’s Offer.  
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby  ORDERED that:  
                                                6
  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 
        A.      Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Respondent  Sofo cease and desist from  
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the 
Securities Act, and pursuant to Section 203(k) of the Advisers Act, Respondent Sofo cease and 
desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 206(4) of the 
Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-8 thereunder.  
                 
        B.       Respondent shall, within 14 days of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement  
of $4,521 and prejudgment interest of $1,117 to the United States Treasury.  If timely payment is 
not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600.  Payment shall be:  
(A) made by wire transfer, United States postal    money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check 
or bank money order; (B) made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission; (C) hand-
delivered or mailed to the Securities and Exchange Commission, Office of Financial 
Management, 100 F St., NE, Stop 6042, Washington, DC 20549; and (D) su              bmitted under cover 
letter that identifies Sofo as a Respondent in these proceedings, the file number of these 
proceedings, a copy of which cover letter and wire transfer, money order or check shall be sent to 
Thomas Sporkin, Chief of the Office of Market Intelligence, Division of Enforcement, Securities 
and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE, Washington, DC 20549-5990.   
 
 
 By the Commission.            
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                          M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                     
 

                                                     7
  
