---------------------Page 1---------------------

                          UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                      Before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 9508 / January 9, 2014 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 71264 / January 9, 2014 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3526 / January 9, 2014 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15674 
 
                                            ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
In the Matter of                           DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
                                           SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT 
      MICHAEL MENDES,                      OF 1933 AND SECTION 21C OF THE 
                                           SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, 
Respondent.                                MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A 
                                           CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
                                               
                                          I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act 
of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 
Act”), against Michael Mendes (“Mendes” or “Respondent”).   
 
                                         II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21C of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 

                                            
                                            
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds 1
                                                                                 that:  
 
                                           Summary 

       1.     These proceedings involve the role of Michael Mendes in Diamond Foods, Inc.’s 
(“Diamond”) inaccurate accounting of costs related to its walnut business in 2010 and 2011.  In 
publicly-disclosed financial statements for fiscal years ending July 31, 2010 and 2011, Diamond 
understated the costs associated with acquiring walnuts from growers, resulting in overstated 
earnings.  Diamond restated its annual and periodic financial statements beginning with the 
quarter ended January 31, 2010 and continued through the year-ended July 31, 2011.  When 
Diamond restated its financial results from those periods, the company’s reported earnings 
decreased by $10.5 million for its 2010 fiscal year, and $23.6 million for its 2011 fiscal year. 

       2.     As Diamond’s CEO during the relevant time, Mendes had an important role in 
ensuring the accuracy of the financial reporting of the company, including certifying the 
financial statements contained in Form 10-K annual reports filed with the Commission, 
reviewing and approving other periodic reports and earnings releases, and signing representation 
letters relied on by the company’s independent auditors. 

       3.     During the relevant time period, Mendes was involved in the determination of the 
walnut prices that Diamond would pay walnut growers, and he was aware of reports of prices 
paid by other walnut purchasers to growers for their 2009 and 2010 crops which were 
significantly higher than prices paid by Diamond.  At the same time, Mendes was involved in the 
decision to make two special payments to growers, paid around the same time that Diamond paid 
the final installment for the walnut crops delivered by its growers.   These payments are 
described further below as the “continuity” and “momentum” payments.  Mendes was also aware 
that these special payments were not recognized as costs associated with walnuts acquired during 
fiscal years 2010 and 2011, respectively.   

       4.     Mendes acted unreasonably under the circumstances in certifying the accuracy of 
financial statements that Diamond included in public filings, including several filings related to 
offers of Diamond stock.  Mendes’ conduct in connection with the two special payments made to 
Diamond growers also caused Diamond to violate various provisions requiring accurate books 
and records and controls designed to ensure accurate financial reporting. 

                                          Respondent 

       5.     Michael Mendes, age 50, is a resident of San Francisco, California.  Mendes 
joined Diamond’s International Sales and Marketing Division in 1991, and was appointed chief 
executive officer in 1997.  Mendes joined the Diamond Board of Directors in 2005 and became 
its Chairman in 2010.  Mendes served as Diamond’s CEO and Chairman until February 2012.         

                                                 
       1
         The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding 
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                    Other Relevant Entity 

       6.     Diamond is a Delaware corporation headquartered in San Francisco, California 
that markets and sells various snack foods and nuts.  Diamond was founded in 1912 as a 
cooperative by California walnut growers, and became a public company after an initial public 
offering (“IPO”) in 2005.  Since its IPO, Diamond has expanded into snack foods through 
acquisitions while maintaining its original walnut business.  Diamond’s common stock is 
registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and is listed on 
NASDAQ under the ticker “DMND.”   

                                             Facts 

A.     Diamond Foods and its Walnut Business 

       7.     Diamond’s stock has been publicly traded since its initial public offering in 2005.  
At that time, Diamond’s principal business was buying walnuts from California -based growers 
and reselling the walnuts through various distribution channels to the retail market.  Since its 
2005 IPO, Diamond has expanded into other snack food businesses and by 2010 it was a fast-
growing snack food conglomerate.  While no longer the sole focus of Diamond’s business, 
walnuts still represented Diamond’s largest commodity cost as of fiscal year 2010. 

       8.     During the relevant time period, 2009 through 2011, Diamond acquired its 
walnuts through long-term supply contracts with walnut growers. These contracts generally 
obligated the growers to sell, and Diamond to buy, the grower’s entire crop each year, and 
Diamond was obligated to pay a price determined by Diamond “in good faith.”   

       9.     Diamond’s business model focused on selling the walnuts to established retailers 
under annual sales contracts.  These sales contracts were often negotiated in advance of the fall 
harvest and delivery of the walnuts to Diamond.  Diamond’s growers would deliver the walnut 
crops each fall and Diamond would pay the growers for those walnuts in a series of payments 
starting with a “delivery payment” at the time of the fall harvest and culminating in a  “final 
payment” in August of the following year.  

B.     Determining and Accounting for the Walnut Cost       

       10.    Because Diamond would begin selling    delivered walnuts before the final payment 
was made to growers, in its quarterly financial statements Diamond accounted for the costs of 
walnuts sold using an estimate of the total price Diamond would pay to growers for a particular 
crop.  Once the final payment was made, in August of the year following delivery, Diamond 
would use the total payments made to growers for the crop as the basis for recording the cost of 
the walnuts sold during the fiscal year.   

       11.    The actual prices Diamond paid growers varied by walnut variety, size of a 
grower’s crop, quality of the crop, and other factors, but the accounting department and 
management referred to an average price paid for a given crop across all growers, varieties, and 
qualities.  For example, for fiscal year ended July 31, 2009, Diamond reported a blended total 
walnut cost of 71 cents per pound, though individual growers might have received more or less 
than that amount. 
                                               3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       12.    Diamond’s contracts with its growers stated:  “The Final Price will be determined 
in good faith, taking into account market conditions, quality, variety, and other relevant factors.”  
Diamond also disclosed how it determined walnut prices in the “Critical Accounting Policies” 
section of its Forms 10-K for 2010 and 2011:  “This purchase price will be a price determined by 
us in good faith, taking into account market conditions, crop size, quality, and nut varieties, 
among other relevant factors.” 

       13.    Generally accepted accounting principles  (“GAAP”) required Diamond to record 
inventory at acquisition cost in the period that the walnuts were purchased, and to record cost of 
sales in the period in which the inventory was sold.      

       14.    Each quarter, Diamond’s finance department would prepare a memorandum 
justifying the walnut price used to value walnut inventory and the cost of the walnuts sold during 
the quarter.  This memorandum was provided to the company’s independent auditors, and the 
auditors relied on the memorandum as a representation that the walnut price had been determined 
in accordance with the accounting policy disclosed in the company’s Forms 10-K.   

C.     The Q2 2010 Walnut Cost Estimate  

       15.    In the first quarter of the 2010 fiscal year, Diamond recorded an estimated cost for 
the 2009 walnut crop of 82 cents per pound.  At the end of the second quarter, ending January 
31, 2010, Diamond recorded an estimated walnut cost of 72 cents per pound.  The recorded 
estimated walnut cost was adjusted by 10 cents per pound although Diamond management was 
aware of reports that some other walnut purchasers were paying some growers prices higher than 
the second quarter estimate.   

       16.    Diamond filed a Form 10-Q with the Commission on February 25, 2010, and 
included financial statements that accounted for walnut costs at the adjusted estimate of 72 cents 
per pound.  On March 1, 2010, Diamond filed a prospectus related to a proposed stock sale to 
pay a portion of the acquisition costs associated with Diamond’s acquisition of a snack food 
company, and the prospectus incorporated the Form 10-Q. 

D.     2010 Final Payment Includes a Special “Continuity    ” Payment  

       17.    In the spring and summer of 2010, Diamond management, including Mendes, 
began discussing a special payment to walnut growers they termed a “continuity” payment.  
Some of Diamond’s growers had been voicing increasing dissatisfaction with the estimated final 
walnut price of 71 cents per pound that had been communicated in the spring of 2010.  In July 
2010, with the final payment to growers for the 2009 crop just a month away, Mendes and three 
other senior Diamond employees visited several large growers.  During these meetings, Diamond 
management told the growers that they would receive a competitive price for the 2009 crop they 
had delivered to Diamond.   

       18.    The next month, in August 2010, Diamond made its final 2009 crop payment to 
its growers and included in that final payment an additional amount that Diamond described in a 
letter to growers as a “continuity” payment.  The additional payment amount, above the average 
71 cents per pound “final price” already communicated, was an additional payment of 
approximately 10 cents per pound.  The letter to growers did not clearly explain the purpose of 
                                               4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

the payment or inform growers that the payment was an advance payment for the 2010 crop.  
Mendes reviewed and approved the letter before it was sent to growers.   

       19.    Instead, the letter stated that the August check “represents both the final payment 
on the 2009 crop and a continuity payment reflecting the value of the multi-year supply 
arrangement with our Diamond walnut growers.”  The additional payment, if considered in 
conjunction with the previous installments and final payment amounts, would have brought 
Diamond closer to the walnut prices paid by some other walnut purchasers for the 2009 crop.  
Some growers believed that the continuity payment was an additional payment for the already-
delivered 2009 crop.   

       20.    The total amount of the “continuity” payment included in payments to Diamond’s 
growers was about $20 million.  Diamond’s finance department did not record the imp act of the 
continuity payment to inventory, payables to growers, or costs of goods sold for the walnuts 
acquired and sold during fiscal year 2010.  Diamond’s financial statements prepared for the 
fiscal year ending July 31, 2010, as disclosed in an earnings release attached to a Form 8-K and 
in Diamond’s Form 10-K, failed to recognize the continuity payment in that fiscal year.   

       21.    Diamond’s independent auditors inquired about the additional payment included 
with the final payment to growers, and employees in Diamond’  s finance department told the 
auditors that the payment was an advance for the next year’s crop.  The auditors required the 
issue be addressed in the management representation letter prepared by Diamond’s finance 
department and signed by Mendes and other senior management, and the letter specifically stated 
that the continuity payment was for the upcoming crop and did not represent a payment for the 
2009 crop.   

       22.    In a Form S-4 registration statement filed on June 20, 2011, Diamond offered 
securities to be issued in connection with Diamond’s proposed acquisition of a snack food 
division of a large consumer products company.  The registration statement incorporated the 
financial statements included in the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2010.   

       23.    On November 11, 2012, Diamond issued restated financial statements for the year 
ended July 31, 2010.  The restated financial statements recognized the impact of the continuity 
payment and increased the reported value of inventory, payables to growers, and cost of goods 
sold during the fiscal year.  Diamond’s 2010 restated earnings were 40 percent lower than had 
been originally reported. 

E.     2011 Walnut Payment Is Followed By a Special “Momentum         ” Payment 

       24.    In the fall of 2010, growers delivered the 2010 crop to Diamond.  Based on the 
amount Diamond paid its growers in the initial installment of the delivery payments, some 
growers once again expressed concern that Diamond was paying significantly below what some 
other walnut purchasers were paying growers.  The quarterly estimate of the walnut price was 
recorded as 74 cents per pound at the end of the quarter ending April 30, 2011.  Diamond’s 
grower relations department learned of some of these grower concerns regarding Diamond’s 
walnut payments being significantly below prices that some other walnut purchasers were paying 
some growers.   

                                               5  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       25.    In the spring and summer of 2011, Diamond management began discussing a 
special additional payment to walnut growers they termed the “momentum payment.”  The 
growers were paid a final payment for the 2010 crop on August 31, 2011, and then two days later 
Diamond paid these same growers an additional amount averaging about 30 cents per pound.  
The additional special payments totaled about $60 million for Diamond.   

       26.    An August 31, 2011 letter to growers told the growers that they would be 
receiving two payments, a final payment and a “momentum payment.”  The letter did not clearly 
identify the momentum payment as an advance on the next year’s crop.  The letter stated that 
“Enclosed you will find your 2010 crop value statement summary and payment. . . .  
Additionally, on September 2nd we will mail a momentum payment designed to reflect the 
projected market environment prior to your delivery of the 2011 crop.  …The momentum 
payment is independent of and incremental to your upcoming delivery payment.”  Some growers 
were unclear about whether the momentum payment was an additional payment that should be 
associated with the delivered crop or as an advance on the next year’s undelivered crop. 

       27.    Diamond’s finance department did not record the momentum payment to 
inventory, payables to growers, or costs of goods sold for the walnuts acquired and sold during 
fiscal year 2011.  As such, Diamond’s annual financial statements prepared for the fiscal year 
ending July 31, 2011, as disclosed in an earnings release attached to a Form 8-K and in 
Diamond’s Form 10-K, failed to recognize the momentum payment in fiscal year   2011.   

       28.    On September 16, 2011, Diamond filed an amendment to the Form S-4 
registration statement offering securities in connection with the proposed acquisition of a snack 
food division of a large consumer products company, and incorporated by reference the Form 
10-K filed for the year ended July 31, 2011. 

       29.    On November 11, 2012, Diamond issued restated financial statements for the year 
ended July 31, 2011.  The restated financial statements recognized the impact of the momentum 
payment as an increase to acquiring inventory, payables to growers, and cost of goods 
sold.  Diamond’s 2011 restated earnings were 47  percent lower than had been originally 
reported. 

F.     Mendes’ Role in Diamond ’s Inaccurate Financial Statements 

       30.    As CEO, Mendes was responsible for certifying the accuracy of Diamond’s 
financial statements and other disclosures in Diamond’s periodic reports. Mendes supervised the 
company’s chief financial officer, who in turn supervised the finance department and grower 
relations department. The grower relations department was responsible for communicating with 
and making payments to growers.  Mendes received reports of prices that some other walnut 
purchasers were paying growers for walnuts in 2010 and 2011, and in some instances Mendes 
met directly with Diamond growers.  Mendes was also involved in determining quarterly walnut 
cost estimates and approved the amount of the total payment made to growers for each crop.   

       31.    Mendes signed and certified the Form 10-K for the year ended July 31, 2010, 
which included financial statements that did not account for the “continuity payment” as a cost 
of the walnuts acquired during the fiscal year.  Likewise, Mendes signed and certified the Form 

                                              6  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

10-K for the year ended July 31, 2011, which included financial statements that did not account 
for the “momentum payment” as a co st of the walnuts acquired during that fiscal year.  Mendes 
also signed and certified the Forms 10-Q for the second and third quarters of 2010, and the first, 
second, and third quarters of 2011. All of those financial statements were subsequently restated.  
Mendes also signed and certified the January 1, 2010, June 20, 2011, and September 16, 2011 
registration statements which incorporated the financial statements which were later restated.  

       32.    Mendes reasonably should have known that Diamond’s Form 10-Ks for fiscal 
year 2010 and 2011, earnings releases for those years attached to Forms 8-K, and Diamond’s 10-
Qs for the second and third quarters of 2010, and the first, second, and third quarters of 2011, all 
of which were subsequently restated, were inaccurate.  Among other things, Mendes received 
reports that some walnut purchasers were paying higher walnut prices for the 2009 and 2010 
crops compared with Diamond, participated in discussions regarding the continuity payment and 
momentum payment, and reviewed grower correspondence regarding the payments which did 
not clearly identify the continuity and momentum payments as advance payments.  Mendes thus 
did not act reasonably in certifying the accuracy of Diamond’s financial statements in the fiscal 
years that were restated, and his conduct caused Diamond to violate various provisions requiring 
accurate books and records and controls designed to ensure accurate financial reporting. 

       33.    Although he was not directly involved in discussions with Diamond’s auditors 
regarding the accounting treatment for the continuity payment or momentum payment, Mendes 
was aware of representations made to the auditors and signed a representation letter sent to the 
independent auditors in connection with the audit of the 2010 financial statements.  That letter 
stated that the continuity payment was unrelated to the 2009 crop delivery, but omitted facts that 
Mendes knew or should have known, including that growers had expressed confusion about the 
purpose of the continuity payment, that some growers considered the continuity payment as a 
part of the final payment for the 2009 crop, and that Diamond’s recorded 2009 crop payment was 
significantly below the price paid by some other walnut purchasers.  Because of these omissions, 
Mendes reasonably should have known that the statement to the auditors was incomplete.   

       34.    Mendes received $2.7 million in bonuses related to Diamond’s fiscal year 2010 
and fiscal year 2011 results.  Of this amount, approximately $1.6 million of the bonus amounts 
were directly tied to earnings per share (EPS) goals, while the remaining $1.1 million of the 
bonus amounts related to other management objectives.  Mendes has voluntarily repaid these 
bonus amounts to Diamond. Mendes also forfeited claims to an additional $1.8 million in 
employment benefits.   

                                           Violations 

       35.    Section 17(a)(2) of the Securities Act makes it unlawful “in the offer or sale of 
any securities . . . to obtain money or property by means of any untrue statement of a material 
fact or any omission to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in 
light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.”  Section 17(a)(3) of the 
Securities Act makes it unlawful “in the offer or sale of any securities . . . to engage in any 
transaction, practice, or course of business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit 
upon the purchaser.”  No finding of scienter is required to establish a violation of Sections 
17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3); negligent conduct is sufficient.  Aaron v. SEC, 446 U.S. 680, 696-97 

                                               7  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

(1980).  Negligence is a failure by an actor to conform conduct to the standard of “a reasonable 
[person] under like circumstances.”  See  Restatement (Second) of Torts §§ 282 and 283.   As a 
result of the conduct described above, Mendes violated Sections 17(a)(2) and (a)(3) of the 
Securities Act. 

       36.    Rule 13a-14 of the Exchange Act requires every principal executive of an issuer 
to certify reports required pursuant to Section 13(a) at the time of the filing of the report. As a 
result of the conduct described above, Mendes violated Exchange Act Rule 13a  -14. 

       37.    Rule 13b2-1 of the Exchange Act prohibits any person from falsifying or causing 
to be falsified any book, record, or account subject to Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act.  
As a result of the conduct described above, Mendes violated Exchange Act Rule 13b2-   1.   

       38.    Rule 13b2-2 of the Exchange Act prohibits any officer from either (1) making or 
causing to be made a materially false or misleading statement to an accountant, or (2) omitting to 
state, or causing another person to omit to state, any material fact necessary in order to make 
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not 
misleading, to an accountant, in connection with any audit, review, or examination of the 
financial statements of an issuer subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13(a). As a 
result of the conduct described above, Mendes violated Rule 13b2-2 of the Exchange Act. 

       39.    Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rules 13a -1, 13a-11, and 
13a-13 require issuers of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act to file 
with the Commission accurate periodic reports, including annual reports on Form 10-K, current 
reports Form 8-K, and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.  Rule 12b-20 further requires that the 
required reports must contain any material information necessary to make the required 
statements made in the reports not misleading.  As a result of the conduct described above, 
Mendes caused violation of these provisions by Diamond Foods. 

       40.    Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires reporting companies to make 
and keep books, records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect 
their transactions and dispositions of their assets.  As a result of the conduct described above, 
Mendes caused violation of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act by Diamond Foods. 

       41.    Section 13(b)(2)(B) requires issuers of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 
of the Exchange Act to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to 
provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation 
of financial statements in accordance with GAAP.  As a result of the conduct described above, 
Mendes caused violation of Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act by Diamond Foods. 

                                              IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 

                                               8  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.     Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Respondent cease and desist from 
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and (a)(3) of the 
Securities Act. 

       B.     Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent cease and desist from 
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, 13a-13, 13a-14, 13b2-1, and 
13b2-2 thereunder.   

       C.     Respondent shall, within 30 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money 
penalty in the amount of $125,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  If timely payment 
is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717.  Payment must be made 
in one of the following ways:   
 
       (1) Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through the 
       SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
       (2) Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States postal 
       money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and hand-
       delivered or mailed to:  
 
              Enterprise Services Center 
              Accounts Receivable Branch 
              HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
              6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
              Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Michael Mendes as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a 
copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Michael S. Dicke, Division of 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 44 Montgomery Street, Suite 2800, San 
Francisco, California 94104.   
 
       D.      Pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, a Fair 
Fund is created for the penalty referenced in paragraph C above.  Regardless of whether any such 
Fair Fund distribution is made, amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this 
Order shall be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax 
purposes.  To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any 
Related Investor Action, he shall not argue that he is entitled to, nor shall he benefit by, offset or 
reduction of any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s 
payment of a civil penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”).  If the court in any Related Investor 
Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that he shall, within 30 days after entry of 
a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay 
the amount of the Penalty Offset to the United States Treasury or to a Fair Fund, as the 
Commission directs.  Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not 
be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of 

                                               9  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a private damages action brought against 
Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based on substantially the same facts as 
alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this proceeding. 
 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                    Secretary 

                                               10   
