---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                         Before the 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

     
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No.  9166 / December 20, 2010 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  63579 / December 20, 2010 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3221 / December 20, 2010 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14167 
 
In the Matter of                               :  ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                               :  ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-AND-
       MOORE STEPHENS WURTH                    :  DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT 
       FRAZER & TORBET LLP                     :  TO SECTION 8A OF THE 
                                               :  SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 AND 
       and                                     :  SECTION 4C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                               :  EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND RULE 
       K. DEAN YAMAGATA, CPA,                  :  102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S 
                                               :  RULES OF PRACTICE, MAKING 
       Respondents.                            :  FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                               :  REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A 
                                               :  CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 

  
 
                                             I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in 
the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby 
are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and 
Section 4C1
            of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of 
                                                           
1
  Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the                                            
privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . (1) not to    
possess the requisite qualifications to represent others…;  (2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to   
have engaged in unethical or improper professional cond uct; or (3) to have willfully violated, or willfully  
aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of  the securities laws or the rules and regulations  
thereunder. 

                                             1
  
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

the Commission’s Rules of Practice  2
                                      against Moore Stephens Wurth Frazer & Torbet LLP and 
Kerry Dean Yamagata (collectively, “Respondents”).  
 
                                                II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over themselves and over the subject 
matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order 
Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist  Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A of the 
Securities Act of 1933 and Section 4C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and 
a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                                III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds    3
                                                                                     that  
 
                                            Summary  
 
       1.       This matter concerns Respondents’ improper professional conduct in connection 
with annual audits and quarterly reviews of the financial statements of China Energy Savings 
Technology, Inc. (“China Energy”) in 2004 and 2005, and Respondents’ violation of the 
document retention requirements of Regulation S-X.  China Energy materially overstated its 
Earnings Per Share (“EPS”) in its fiscal year (“FY”) 2004 annual report.  China Energy also 
materially overstated its revenues and net income in its FY 2005 annual report and two quarterly 
reports.  Respondents failed to conduct the relevant audits and reviews in accordance with the 
standards and rules of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”).  Although 
Respondents determined that the China Energy engagement involved high risks, Respondents did 
not exercise professional skepticism and due professional care, and Respondents otherwise 
violated professional standards.  Respondents issued unqualified audit opinions, which were 
included in China Energy’s FY 2004 and 2005 annual reports.  Respondents also issued interim  
review reports which contained no reservations, before China Energy filed its quarterly reports in 
FY 2005. 
 

                                                           
2
  Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
       The Commission may censure a person or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of   
appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or                                     
improper professional conduct.                    
3
  The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  

                                                 2
  
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                         Respondents  
 
       2.      Moore Stephens Wurth Frazer & Torbet, LLP (hereinafter “MSWFT”) is a public 
accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and located in Orange County, California.  MSWFT 
served as China Energy’s auditor for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2004 and September 
30, 2005, and also reviewed the quarterly financial statements of China Energy for the periods 
December 31, 2004 through December 31, 2005.   
 
       3.      Kerry Dean Yamagata, CPA, age 53, is a partner at MSWFT and was the 
engagement partner for MSWFT’s China Energy engagements.  As such, Yamagata exercised 
final authority on all significant decisions relating to MSWFT’s China Energy audits and 
reviews.  Yamagata is a Certified Public Accountant, licensed in California, and a resident of 
Chino Hills, California.  
 
                                    Other Relevant Entity  
 
       4.      China Energy Savings Technology, Inc. is a Nevada shell corporation.  In 2004 
and 2005, China Energy indirectly acquired ownership of Shenzhen Dicken Industrial 
Development, Ltd. (“Dicken Industrial”), a company located in the People’s Republic of China 
(“PRC”) that claimed to manufacture and sell energy savings equipment.  China Energy was 
listed on the NASDAQ National Market System  between April 2005 and February 2006.  In 
September 2006, the Commission instituted administrative proceedings pursuant to Section 12(j) 
of the Exchange Act against China Energy.  China Energy did not answer the order instituting 
proceedings and the registration of its securities with the Commission was revoked in December 
2006.  On December 4, 2006, the Commission filed a civil injunctive action against China 
Energy, a Chinese national named Chiu Wing Chiu    (“Chiu”) and certain other entities and 
individuals, alleging violations of the antifraud and registration provisions of the federal 
securities laws.  In March 2009, the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York 
entered a final judgment in that litigation that permanently enjoined China Energy, Chiu, and the 
other liability defendants from  violations of the antifraud and registrations provisions and 
ordered the payment of various penalties and approximately $35 million in disgorgement and 
interest, and certain other ancillary relief.  In July 2009, in granting summary judgment to the 
Commission against the relief defendants in the litigation, the U.S. District Court found that the 
relief defendants were Chiu’s nominees and that Chiu was an owner of China Energy and had 
exercised control over China Energy.    
 

                                               3
  
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                            Facts  
                                                
                         Respondents Encounter Audit Conditions 

            That Should Have Caused Them to Exercise Heightened Skepticism
          

       5.      In 2004, as required by PCAOB standards, MSWFT conducted an initial 
assessment of the risks associated with the China Energy engagement.  AU § 312, Audit Risk and 
Materiality in Conducting an Audit; AU § 316, Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement 
Audit.  The audit team rated the risks relating to improper revenue recognition, management 
override of controls and overstated assets as “high.”  The team also concluded that revenue 
recognition was “the key issue” in the engagement. 

       6.      Throughout the engagement, Yamagata and the MSWFT team were aware of 
significant problems with China Energy’s internal controls.  During the FY 2004 audit, MSWFT 
tested China Energy’s internal controls over sales and over cash receipts and disbursements, and 
the team concluded that those controls were not operating effectively and could not be relied 
upon.  In its Form 10-K for FY 2005, China Energy’s management reported that it was unable to 
complete its assessment of internal control over financial reporting, and MSWFT disclaimed an 
opinion on the effectiveness of such controls. 

       7.      During the engagement, Respondents learned information that contradicted China 
Energy’s disclosures in its annual reports.  China Energy claimed in its filings that Dicken 
Industrial’s operations were located on a single floor of a building in Shenzhen, PRC.  When the 
audit team arrived at that location to begin their audit field work for FY 2004, however, none of 
Dicken Industrial’s inventory was at the site. Only inventory belonging to a much smaller 
research and development subsidiary was on site.  Instead, the company claimed that Dicken 
Industrial’s inventory was actually in three other locations, including two cities hundreds of 
miles from Shenzhen.  

       8.      MSWFT also encountered difficulties in conducting certain audit procedures and 
relied on affiliates to complete material aspects of the audit work.  The MSWFT audit team was  
unable to observe inventory or obtain bank or customer confirmations when it arrived in 
Shenzhen to conduct the FY 2004 audit field work.  After the team returned to the U.S., MSWFT 
hired personnel from an affiliated Beijing firm  to observe Dicken Industrial’s inventory and 
obtain bank confirmations.  The same Beijing affiliate performed inventory observation and 
obtained bank confirmations for the FY 2005 audit. 
 
                          China Energy Misstates EPS in FY 2004.  
 
       9.      China Energy materially overstated EPS in its annual report for FY 2004.  At the 
time, China Energy lacked accounting personnel trained in U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles (“GAAP”) and was unable to complete an EPS calculation.  At China Energy’s 
request, MSWFT prepared the initial EPS calculation.  In making the calculation, however, a 
MSWFT accountant used the wrong number of shares (7.8 million shares, instead of 11.3 
million), which had the effect of overstating EPS by $0.15, or approximately 41%.  Yamagata 
reviewed the draft calculation but did not identify the error.   

                                               4
  
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       10.     China Energy adopted the EPS calculation without change and included the 
overstated EPS in the company’s annual report on Form 10-KSB for FY 2004 filed on January 
15, 2005.  In June 2005, in response to questions from the Division of Corporation Finance, the 
error was identified and China Energy  filed an amended Form 10-KSB for FY   2004 that restated 
EPS from $0.51 to $0.36. 
 
              China Energy Recognizes Revenues Improperly In FY 2005.  

       11.     In FY 2005, China Energy reported total revenues of Rmb 391.5 million.  Over 
50% of these revenues (Rmb 200.5 million) derived from transactions with four customers, and 
were booked in the last three quarters of the FY.  China Energy prematurely recognized revenue 
from two of the customers and improperly recognized revenue from the remaining two 
customers, causing China Energy’s financial statements to be materially false and misleading for 
the quarters ended March 31, 2005 and June 30, 2005, and for the FY ended September 30, 2005.  
MSWFT questioned China Energy about this revenue recognition during the March 31 quarterly 
review and during the FY 2005 year-end audit.  Yamagata, however, acquiesced in China 
Energy’s improper revenue recognition and accepted the company’s explanations, even though 
those explanations were inconsistent with the company’s prior representations and with contracts 
and other company records. 

       12.     China Energy claimed to sell its products under two types of contracts.  For 
ordinary sales, the customer agreed to pay, and China Energy recognized revenue, upon 
shipment.  For “Energy Savings” contracts, China Energy and the customer first signed a 
preliminary agreement.   China Energy then delivered, installed and tested its product.  The  
customer and China Energy then signed a final agreement, in which the customer agreed to pay 
China Energy on a monthly basis, based on the expected “Energy Savings” from the equipment 
supplied by China Energy.  China Energy disclosed in its annual reports that it recognized 
revenue for Energy Savings contracts only on execution of the final agreement.   

       13.     During the quarter ended March 31, 2005, China Energy recognized revenue of 
Rmb 79 million from two customers located in the cities of Chongqing and Hangzhou, which 
was 85% of China Energy’s total revenues for the quarter.  China Energy told MSWFT that these 
transactions were Energy Savings contracts.  During the quarterly review, MSWFT questioned 
China Energy about the transactions and China Energy continued to maintain that these were 
Energy Savings contracts.  When MSWFT sought to obtain documentation, however, China 
Energy was unable to produce final customer agreements to pay or other documentation 
indicating that revenue recognition was proper.  After MSWFT advised China Energy that it 
could not recognize the revenue, China Energy claimed, for the first time, that the transactions 
were ordinary sales and revenue could be recognized upon shipment.  China Energy provided to 
MSWFT copies of shipping documents that it claimed were also sales contracts for these 
customers.  Instead of continuing to insist on seeing copies of the contracts or other underlying 
documentation showing that the revenue was properly booked, Yamagata asked the company to 
add a statement to its management representation letter that the transactions were regular sales 
contracts.  MSWFT then gave China Energy an interim review report that contained no 
reservations.  On May 23, 2005, China Energy filed a Form 10-QSB for the quarter ended March 
31, 2005, which included revenues of Rmb 79 million, as ordinary sales.  

                                              5
  
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       14.     During the FY 2005 audit, MSWFT obtained the testing records and the 
agreements to pay for these customers, showing that both transactions were in fact Energy 
Savings contracts, and therefore that it was premature and improper for China Energy to have 
recognized the revenue on those transactions in the quarter ended March 31.  Based on the dates 
on the documents MSWFT obtained, the Chongqing revenues should not have been recognized 
until the quarter ended June 30, and the Hangzhou revenues should not have been recognized 
until the September 30 fiscal year end.  

       15.     During the quarter ended June 30, 2005, China Energy recognized new Energy 
Savings revenues of Rmb 69 million.  This was 87% of the total revenues recognized by China 
Energy that quarter and included additional revenues from the Hangzhou customer (Rmb 29.9 
million) and revenues from two new Energy Savings contracts for customers located in the cities 
of Xinjiang (Rmb 23.3 million) and Shanghai (Rmb 15.8 million).  During MSWFT’s quarterly 
review, China Energy informed MSWFT that the Chongqing and Hangzhou ordinary sales 
contracts from the previous quarter now had been converted into Energy Savings contracts.  
MSWFT asked no questions concerning either the “conversion” or the new Energy Savings 
revenues recognized during the quarter, and MSWFT provided China Energy with an interim  
review report for the quarter that contained no reservations.  On August 22, 2005, China Energy 
filed a Form 10-QSB for the quarter ended June 30, 2005; the quarterly financial statements 
included the Rmb 69 million in Energy Savings revenues.  As noted above, the Hangzhou 
revenues should not have been recognized until year-end.  No testing documents or agreements 
to pay are known to exist for the other two customers, and therefore the Xinjiang and Shanghai 
revenues should not have been recognized at all. 

       16.     During the final quarter of FY 2005, China Energy recognized an additional 
Rmb 52.5 million in Energy Savings revenues from the Xinjiang and Shanghai customers.  This 
amount was 41% of the total revenues recognized by China Energy that quarter.   

       17.     During the FY 2005 audit, MSWFT identified the Xinjiang and Shanghai revenue 
as a problem and advised China Energy that it needed to provide sufficient written documents 
and explanation to support revenue recognition.  China Energy responded that, as of November 
21, 2005 (over seven weeks after the end of the FY), installation of the equipment was “most[ly] 
completed,” which indicated that the company had not completed the steps necessary to 
recognize the revenue under its disclosed policy (i.e., completion of installation and testing and 
execution of final agreements to pay by the customers).  According to MSWFT’s email records, 
during the audit MSWFT received a 17-page fax from China Energy containing further 
explanation of China Energy’s reasons for recognizing revenue from the Xinjiang and Shanghai 
transactions.  MSWFT did not retain the fax in its workpapers or other files.  Email records 
indicate that MSWFT continued to have significant concerns regarding the Xinjiang and 
Shanghai transactions after reviewing the fax. China Energy never provided documentation that 
the equipment purportedly delivered to Xinjiang and Shanghai had been tested or that these 
customers had entered into a final agreement to pay.   Without evidence  of such agreement, it 
was improper for China Energy to recognize any revenues from the Xinjiang and Shanghai 
customers.  Nevertheless, Yamagata allowed China Energy to recognize total revenues of 
Rmb 91.6 million for FY 2005 from these two customers.  On December 20, 2005, China Energy 
filed a Form 10-K for FY 2005, which contained China Energy’s audited financial statements for 
FY 2005.  These financial statements included the Energy Savings revenues as described above.  

                                              6
  
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

Also included in the Form 10-K was MSWFT’s audit report, which was unqualified, except for 
the disclaimer as to internal controls.      
 
                                Legal Standards and Analysis  
 
       18.     Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provide that the 
Commission may temporarily or permanently deny an accountant the privilege of appearing or  
practicing before it if it finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that the accountant 
engaged in improper professional conduct.  Under Section 4C(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 
102(e)(1)(iv), improper professional conduct includes negligent conduct in the form of repeated 
instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable professional 
standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice before the Commission.  
 
       19.     The applicable professional standards of care for accountants practicing before the 
Commission include, but are not limited to, Article 2 under Regulation S-X (17 C.F.R. § 210.2-
01 et. seq.) and the standards and rules of the PCAOB.  The standards of care may overlap, and 
one failure may constitute or contribute to another.  
 
       20.     Certain conditions require auditors to exercise heightened skepticism, AU 
§ 316.46; In re Gregory M. Dearlove, CPA, Exch. Act Rel. No. 57244, p. 8 (Jan. 31, 2008).   This 
was true in this case after Respondents:  (i) concluded that the risks of the China Energy 
engagement were high as to significant accounts; (ii) concluded that China Energy’s internal 
controls were not operating effectively and could not be relied upon; (iii) became aware of facts 
concerning inventory and operations which, although not materially inconsistent with financial 
statement assertions, contradicted China Energy’s public disclosures; and (iv) encountered 
difficulties in conducting important audit procedures.  Nevertheless, Respondents Yamagata and 
MSWFT violated applicable professional standards by failing to:  (i) obtain sufficient competent 
evidential matter regarding Energy Savings revenues through inspection, observation, inquiries, 
and confirmations to afford a reasonable basis for MSWFT’s opinion regarding the FY 2005 
financial statements of China Energy, as required by AU § 326.01, Evidential Matter; 
(ii) exercise professional skepticism and due professional care regarding Energy Savings 
revenues in the performance of the audit of China Energy for FY 2005, as required by 
AU § 230.01, Due Professional Care in the Performance of Work, and AU § 230.07; 
(iii) document significant findings or issues, actions taken to address them (including additional 
evidence obtained), and the basis for the conclusions reached in the FY 2005 audit, as required 
by PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 3, Audit Documentation                                     , paragraph 12; (iv) properly 
supervise assistants, including assistants engaged from outside the firm, in the FY 2004 audit of 
China Energy, as required by AU § 311.01, Planning and Supervision; and (v) ensure the 
independence of MSWFT in connection with the audit of EPS in FY 2004, as required by 
Regulation S-X and AU §§ 150.02, paragraph 2, Generally Accepted Auditing Standards                                                , 220 
Auditor Independence. 
 
       21.     Respondents Yamagata and MSWFT further violated applicable professional 
standards in reviewing the financial statements of China Energy for the quarters ended March 31, 
2005 and June 30, 2005.  Respondents Yamagata and MSWFT became aware of information 
concerning significant sales transactions that gave them cause to believe that the information in 

                                               7
  
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

the interim financial statements may not have been in conformity with GAAP in all material 
respects, AU § 722.22, Interim Financial Information; nevertheless Respondents failed to 
perform additional interim review procedures, such as reading the sales contracts or discussing 
the transactions with senior marketing personnel, AU § 722.22.  Respondents also failed to 
consider the reasonableness and consistency of management’s response to inquiries concerning 
the significant sales transactions, AU § 722.17. 
 
       22.     Rule 2-06 under Regulation S-X provides that for a period of seven years after an 
accountant concludes an audit or review of an issuer’s financial statements, the accountant shall 
retain records relevant to the audit or review, including workpapers and other documents that 
form the basis of the audit or review, and memoranda, correspondence, communications, other 
documents and records (including electronic records), which: 
        
               A.	      Are created, sent or received in connection with the audit or review, and  

               B.	      Contain conclusions, opinions, analyses, or financial data related to the 
                      auditor or review. 
 
       The rule requires that such documents shall be retained whether they support the 
auditor’s final conclusions regarding the audit or review, or contain information or data, relating 
to a significant matter, that is inconsistent with the auditor’s final conclusions regarding that 
matter or the audit or review.  Nevertheless, Respondents failed to retain correspondence 
received from China Energy which contained conclusions and opinions relating to significant 
revenue recognition issues. 

       23.     Rule 2-01(c)(4)(i) under Regulation S-X provides that an accountant is not 
independent if, at any point during the audit and professional engagement period, the accountant 
provides non-audit services to an audit client, including any bookkeeping or other service related 
to the accounting records or financial statements of the audit client, unless it is reasonable to 
conclude that the results of these services will not be subject to audit procedures during an audit 
of the audit client’s financial statements.  Rule 2-02(b) under Regulation S-X requires the 
accountant’s report to state whether the audit was made in accordance with generally accepted 
auditing standards (“GAAS”), which require that the accountant be independent of the client.  
“[R]eferences in Commission rules and staff guidance and in the federal securities laws to GAAS 
or to specific standards under GAAS, as they relate to issuers, should be understood to mean the 
standards of the PCAOB . . . .” SEC Release No. 34-49708.  Respondent MSWFT’s 
independence from China Energy was impaired under Rule 2-01(c)(4)(i) due to the firm’s 
preparation of an EPS calculation that was subject to audit procedures by MSWFT in connection 
with the audit of China Energy’s FY 2004 financial statements.  Nevertheless, MSWFT violated 
Rule 2-02(b) by stating incorrectly in its audit report that the audit was performed in accordance 
with the standards of the PCAOB.  Respondent Yamagata was a cause of such violation. 

        

                                                8
  
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

                                          Findings  

       24.     Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondents Yamagata and 
MSWFT engaged in improper professional conduct pursuant to Section 4C of the Exchange Act 
and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 

       25.     Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondents Yamagata and 
MSWFT violated Rule 2-06 under Regulation S-X (17 C.F.R. § 210.2-06). 

       26.     Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent MSWFT violated 
Rule 2-02(b) under Regulation S-X (17 C.F.R. § 210.2-02(b)) and that Respondent Yamagata 
was a cause of such violation. 

                                        Undertakings  

                     MSWFT Shall Retain an Independent Consultant  

       27.     MSWFT has undertaken to retain, within thirty days after the entry of this Order, 
an independent consultant (“Independent Consultant”), not unacceptable to the Commission 
staff.  The Independent Consultant will review and evaluate the audit and interim review policies 
and procedures of MSWFT regarding:  (i) training in client fraud detection; (ii) auditor 
independence; (iii) client acceptance and retention; (iv) document retention; (v) use of and 
supervision of affiliate firms and personnel (taking into consideration PCAOB Staff Audit 
Practice Alert No. 6, dated July 12, 2010); (vi) third party confirmations; (vii) work paper sign-
off and dating; and (viii) audit committee communications.  The Independent Consultant’s 
review and evaluation will assess the forgoing areas to determine whether MSWFT’s policies 
and procedures are adequate and sufficient to ensure compliance with Commission regulations 
and with PCAOB standards and rules.  MSWFT will cooperate fully with the Independent 
Consultant and will provide reasonable access to firm personnel, information, and records as the 
Independent Consultant may reasonably request for the Independent Consultant’s reviews and 
evaluations.  MSWFT will provide to the Commission staff a copy of the engagement letter 
detailing the scope of the Independent Consultant’s responsibilities. 

       28.     Within sixty days of being retained, the Independent Consultant will issue a 
written report (“Report”) to MSWFT:  (a) summarizing the Independent Consultant’s review and 
evaluation; and (b) making recommendations, where appropriate, reasonably designed to ensure 
that audits conducted by MSWFT comply with Commission regulations and with PCAOB 
standards and rules.  The Independent Consultant will provide a copy of the Report to the 
Commission staff and the PCAOB staff when the Report is issued. 

       29.     MSWFT will adopt, as soon as practicable, all recommendations of the 
Independent Consultant in the Report.  Provided, however, that within thirty days of issuance of 
the Report, MSWFT may advise the Independent Consultant in writing of any recommendation 
that it considers to be unnecessary, unduly burdensome, or impractical.  MSWFT need not adopt 
any such recommendation at that time, but instead may propose in writing to the Independent 
Consultant and the Staff an alternative policy or procedure designed to achieve the same 
objective or purpose.  MSWFT and the Independent Consultant will engage in good-faith 
negotiations in an effort to reach agreement on any recommendations objected to by MSWFT.  

                                              9
  
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

In the event that the Independent Consultant and MSWFT are unable to agree on an alternative 
proposal within thirty days, MSWFT will abide by the determinations of the Independent 
Consultant. 

       30.     Within sixty days of issuance of the Report, but not sooner than thirty days after a 
copy of the Report is provided to the Commission staff, MSWFT will certify to the Staff in 
writing that it has adopted and has implemented or will implement all recommendations of the 
Independent Consultant (“Certification of Compliance”).  MSWFT will provide a copy of the 
Certification of Compliance to the PCAOB staff.  

       31.     MSWFT will not accept any new issuer audit clients with operations located in 
the People's Republic of China, the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, and Taiwan, 
between the date of this Order and the issuance of the Certification of Compliance.  

       32.     Six months after issuance of the Certification of Compliance, the Independent 
Consultant will undertake a follow-up review and evaluation of MSWFT’s compliance with the 
matters certified.  Within thirty days after the completion of the follow-up review and evaluation, 
the Independent Consultant will issue a supplemental written report to MSWFT certifying the 
firm’s compliance, describing any matters on which the Independent Consultant is unable to 
certify compliance, and making recommendations, where appropriate, reasonably designed to 
ensure that audits of MSWFT comply with Commission regulations and with PCAOB standards 
and rules.  The Independent Consultant will provide a copy of the supplemental report to the 
Commission staff and to the PCAOB staff. 

       33.     Upon request, and for good cause shown, the Commission staff may extend any 
of the above procedural dates. 

       34.     MSWFT will require the Independent Consultant to enter into an agreement that  
provides that, for the period of engagement and for a period of two years from completion of the 
engagement, the Independent Consultant shall not enter into any employment, consultant, 
attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with MSWFT, or any of its present or 
former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such.  The 
agreement will also provide that the Independent Consultant will require that any firm with 
which he/she is affiliated or of which he/she is a member, and any person engaged to assist the 
Independent Consultant in performance of his/her duties under this Order shall not, without prior 
written consent of the Division of Enforcement, enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-
client, auditing or other professional relationship with MSWFT, or any of its present or former 
affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such for the period 
of the engagement and for a period of two years after the engagement. 

       35.     MSWFT shall certify, in writing, compliance with the undertakings set forth 
above.  The certification shall identify the undertakings, provide written evidence of compliance 
in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient to demonstrate compliance.  
The Commission staff may make reasonable requests for further evidence of compliance, and 
Respondent agrees to provide such evidence.  The certification and supporting material shall be 
submitted to Antonia Chion, Associate Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and 
Exchange Commission, 100 F St., N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549-5720B SP2, with a copy to the 

                                              10
  
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

Office of Chief Counsel of the Enforcement Division, no later than sixty (60) days from the date 
of the completion of the undertakings.   
                                                 
                                              IV. 
 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Yamagata’s and Respondent MSWFT’s Offers. 
 
       Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and Section 4C of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, it is hereby ORDERED 
that: 
 
       A.     Respondents Yamagata and MSWFT cease and desist from committing or causing 
any violations and any future violations of Rules 2-02(b) and 2-06 under Regulation S-X (17 
C.F.R. §§ 210.2-02(b) and 210.2-06); 
 
       B.     Respondent MSWFT is censured; 
 
       C.     Respondents MSWFT and Yamagata, jointly and severally, shall, within thirty 
days of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement of audit fees of $100,000 and prejudgment 
interest of $29,500.  If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 
SEC Rule of Practice 600.  Payment shall be: (A) made by wire transfer, United States postal 
money order, certified check, bank cashier's check or bank money order; (B) made payable to the 
Securities and Exchange Commission; (C) hand-delivered or mailed to the Office of Financial 
Management, Securities and Exchange Commission, Operations Center, 6432 General Green 
Way, Stop 0-3, Alexandria, VA 22312; and (D) submitted under cover letter that identifies 
MSWFT and Yamagata as Respondents in these proceedings, the file number of these 
proceedings, a copy of which cover letter and money order or check shall be sent to Antonia 
Chion, Associate Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 
F St., N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549-5720B SP2; 
 
       D.     Respondent Yamagata is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before 
the Commission as an accountant;  
 
       E.     After two years from the date of this order, Respondent Yamagata may request 
that the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of  
the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
 
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent Yamagata’s work in his practice 
before the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public 
company for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before 
the Commission in this capacity; and/or  
 

                                              11
  
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

                 2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
 
                         (a)      Respondent Yamagata, or th      e public accounting firm with which 
he is associated, is registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                         (b)      Respondent Yamagata , or th      e registered public accounting firm  
with which he is associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB and that inspection did not 
identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent’s       or the firm’s quality control 
system that would indicate that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
 
                         (c)      Respondent Yamagata has resolv        ed all disciplinary issues with the 
PCAOB, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the 
PCAOB (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                  (d)             Respondent Yamagata acknowle         dges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the PCAOB, including, but not limited to, 
all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
control standards. 
 
        F.       The Commission will consider an application by Respondent Yamagata to resume  
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and 
he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  
However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission 
will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include  
consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to 
Respondent Yamagata’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or 
practice before the Commission. 
 
  By the Commission. 
 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                            M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                       
 

                                                      12
  
 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

                                                   Service List  
 
        Rule 141 of the Commission's Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or another duly authorized    
officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Orde r Instituting Public Administrative and Cease-and-Desist 
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 4C of the Securities Exchange Act of  
1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions   
and a Cease-and-Desist Order ("Order"), on the Respondents and their legal agents. 
 
        The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to notice:                         
 
Honorable Brenda P. Murray                                                 
Chief Administrative Law Judge                         
Securities and Exchange Commission                  
100 F Street, N.E.  
Washington, DC 20549-2557 
                                                               
Patrick L. Feeney, Esq. 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission    
100 F. Street N.E.  
Washington DC, 20549-5720 
 
Kerry Dean Yamagata 
                       
c/o Lawrence West, Esq. 

Latham & Watkins LLP 

555 Eleventh Street, N.W. 

Suite 1000 

Washington, DC 20004 

 
Moore Stephens Wurth Frazer and Torbet LLP 

c/o Lawrence West, Esq. 

Latham & Watkins LLP 

555 Eleventh Street, N.W. 

Suite 1000 

Washington, DC 20004 

 
Lawrence West, Esq. 

Latham & Watkins LLP 

555 Eleventh Street, N.W. 

Suite 1000 

Washington, DC 20004 

(Counsel for Kerry Dean Yamagata and Moore Stephens Wurth Frazer and Torbet LLP) 
 
 
 

                                                        13
  
 
