---------------------Page 1---------------------

                         UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                   before the 
                  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 9967 / October 27, 2015 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 76275 / October 27, 2015 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3716 / October 27, 2015 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16927 
 

In the Matter of                           ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                           ADMINISTRATIVE AND 
  THE ST. JOE COMPANY,                     CEASE-AND-DESIST 
  Wm. BRITTON GREENE,                      PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
  WILLIAM S. McCALMONT,                    SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES 
  JANNA L. CONNOLLY, CPA,                  ACT OF 1933, SECTIONS 4C AND 21C 
  J. BRIAN SALTER, CPA, and                OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE 
  PHILLIP B. JONES, CPA,                   ACT OF 1934, AND RULE 102(e) OF 
                                           THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
Respondents.                               PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, 
                                           AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL 
                                           SANCTIONS, CEASE -AND-DESIST 
                                           ORDERS AND PENALTIES      

                                         

                                       I. 

     The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A 
of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 21C of  the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (“Exchange Act”) against T he St. Joe Company, Wm. Britton Greene, William S. McCalmont, 
Janna L. Connolly, CPA, J. Brian Salter, CPA, and Phillip B. Jones, CPA (collectively, 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

“Respondents”), and additionally    as to McCalmont, Connolly, Salter and Jones, pursuant to 
Exchange Act Section 4C    1
                             and  Rule 102(e)(1)(ii i) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.   2
                                                                                                  

        In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers of 
Settlement (“Offers”), which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of 
these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which 
the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the 
Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, 
and except as provided in Section V. herein, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting 
Public Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities 
Act of 1933, Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions, 
Cease-and-Desist Orders and Penalties (“Order”), as set forth below.      

                                                    II. 

        On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds       3
                                                                                         that: 

A.     Overview 

        The St. Joe Company    , an NYSE -listed real estate developer, timberland   owner,  and  resort 
operator, its former senior management,    and others, committed or caused violations of the federal 
securities laws, result ing in materially overstated earnings and assets during 2009 and 2010.    4
                                                                                                     The 
underlying improper    conduct compris  ed, first , failing in two respects to comply with  Generally 
Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) in the impairment testing of the Company            ’s real estate 
development assets  ; second , after discovering the  broader of the  aforementioned GAAP lapse     s in 
October 2010, (i) failing to identify or correct any resulting errors in prior-period financial statements 
and (ii) improperly using assumptions based on conditions not existing as of the      quarter  ended 

                                                 
1
 Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  

The Commission may … deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . .  (3) to have  willfully violated, or 
willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
2
 Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 

The Commission may … deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before it . . . 
to any person who is found . . . to have  willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of any 
provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
3
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not binding on any other 
person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
4
 These violations stemmed from the Company’s historical accounting and disclosure practices relating to its 
valuation and impairment of real estate development assets which occurred prior to the 2011 replacement of the 
Company’s Board of Directors and resignation of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and 
Chief Accounting Officer. 

                                                     2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

September 30, 2010 in conducting that quarter’s impairment testing for certain real estate 
developments; third , applying  an unreasonable sales  pric e assumption to undeveloped beachfront 
land in one of the Company ’s largest   real estate developments in the  fourth quarter of 2010; and 
fourth, failing to specifically disclose, in its  2010 Form 10- K, that the Company had decided not to 
proceed with the material development and planning of two of its largest real estate developments, 
and had instead determined to bulk-sell the related  undeveloped land in the future .  In the course of 
the foregoing, and by their respective acts and omissions detailed below, the Respondents committed 
or caused various respective violations of the antifraud, internal controls, books-and-records, periodic 
reporting and other provisions of the federal securities laws.   

B.     Respondents 
 
       The St. Joe Company            (“St. Joe” or “the Company”) is a Florida corporation headquartered in 
WaterSound, Florida.  The Company is a   residential and commercial real estate developer, rural and 
timberland owner , and resort operator .  St. Joe’s common stock is registered with the Commission 
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange act and listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) 
under the ticker symbol “JOE.”  At all relevant times, St. Joe’s fiscal year coincided with the calendar 
year. 

       Wm. Britton Greene (“Greene”), age 61, resides in Winter Park, Florida .  He served as St. 
Joe’s Chief Operating Officer (“COO”) from August 2006, and its Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) 
from May 2008, until his resignation on February 25, 2011. 

       William S. McCalmont (“McCalmont”), age 59, resid  es in Santa Rosa Beach, Florida.  He 
served as St. Joe’s Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) from May 2007 until his resignation on April 11, 
2011.  McCalmont has never been a Certified Public Accountant (“CPA”), but obtained a Chartered 
Financial Analyst designation (“CFA”) in 1986, which is now inactive.  From 2000 until October 19, 
2015, McCalmont  served on the Audit Committee of a   nother public company . 

       Janna L. Connolly (“Connolly”), age 59, resides in Destin, Florida.  She served as St. Joe’s 
Chief Accounting Officer (“CAO”) from 1996 until   April 11, 2011, when she succeeded McCalmont 
as the Company ’s CFO  , and continued in that position until her resignation on May 7, 2012.  
Connolly has been licensed as a CPA by the State of Florida since 1980. 

       J. Brian Salter (“Salter”),                age 45, resides in WaterSound, Florida .  He was St. Joe’s Manager 
of Finance from 2005 until July 2, 2010, when he was promoted to Director of Accounting and 
Finance.  Salter continued in that position until May 17, 2011, when he was promoted to Vice 
President of Finance and Accounting.  Salter is currently the Company’s Senior Vice President of 
Finance and Investments.  Salter has been licensed as a CPA by the State of Florida since 1996.   

       Phillip B. Jones (“Jones”), age 46, resides in Jacksonville, Florida.  He was St. Joe’s Director 
of Accounting from 2006 until leaving the Company  on June 30, 2010.  Jones has been licensed as a 
CPA by the State of Florida since 2002.  He is currently employed as Vice President of Revenue for a 
private company . 

        

        
                                                3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

C.     FACTS 

       1.      Applicable GAAP and Controls Environment  

       Throughout the period relevant   to this Order, i.e. January 1, 2009 through March 3, 2011 (the 
“Relevant Period”), St. Joe was one of the largest real estate development companies in Florida.  With 
virtually all of its assets, income and revenue tied to real estate, it was, during the Relevant Period, of 
central importance that those responsible for  St. Joe’s  financial reporting and internal accounting 
controls have a command of, and properly apply, the GAAP      applicable to  its  real estate assets  (in 
addition, of course, to all other relevant GAAP).  Accounting Standards Codification 360-10 
(formerly FAS 144) (“ASC 360”) provides that long-lived assets to be held and used, including assets 
under development, be tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate 
that such an asset’s carrying amount may not be recoverable (“Triggering Events”) ;   5
                                                                                       ASC -360 also 
specifies both how  to carry out, and how to apply the results of, such testing.   

       During the Relevant Period and pursuant to St. Joe’s internal accounting controls and policies 
and procedures, responsibility  for impairment testing was  shared among Respondents Greene, 
McCalmont, Connolly, Salter and/or    Jones.  For their part, during the Relevant Period and pursuant to 
the Company’s policies, former CEO Greene, former CFO McCalmont, and former CAO Connolly 
were each required to review and approve the impairment    testing that was used for financial reporting 
purposes.  As Directors of Accounting and pursuant to the Company’s controls    , Jones (for all of 2009 
as well as the first six months of 2010) and Salter (from July  2, 2010 through the balance of the 
Relevant Period) were responsible for testing  St. Joe’s long-lived real estate developments for 
impairment on a quarterly  basis.6
                                     

       In addition, Greene, McCalmont and Connolly     ,7
                                                          as members of St. Joe’s Investment 
Committee, were responsible for   approving  all business assumptions and forecast ed undiscounted 
cash flows that were, among other thing s, used in the Company’s impairment testing.  Throughout the 
Relevant Period, St. Joe’s business plans and forecasted undiscounted cash flows for specific 
residential real estate developments  were captured in comprehensive “economic models” which 
reflected assumptions concerning the future plans for each development, including annualized 
pricing, appreciation rates, specific costs, and detailed expected sales time frames for specific types of 
home sites.  Pursuant to the Company’s internal policy, these economic models were updated at least 
annually by the Company   ’s finance department and real estate development project managers.      

        

        
                                                 
5
 Such events or changes in circumstances include, among other things, a significant adverse change in business 
climate impacting the relevant assets.  See                           ASC 360-10-35-2.  These events were present across all of St. Joe’s 
developments during the Relevant Period, due to, among other things, economic recession, a significant 
downturn in the Florida real estate market, and a major oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.  
6
 During the Relevant Period, St. Joe conducted quarterly impairment testing because it considered the financial 
crisis and the 2010 Gulf oil spill to be ongoing Triggering Events.   
7
 Connolly became a member of the Investment Committee in Q1 2010.  

                                                  4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       2.      St. Joe Deviated From GAAP 

        During 2009 and 2010, the Company     failed in two respects to conform with  GAAP—with 
one lapse impacting multiple periods and the other a single project and period—and each resulting in 
an overstatement  of the  Company’s earnings and assets  at the time.   

               a.  Failure to Include all Necessary  Costs in Impairment Testing    

       During all of 2009 and continuing through its second quarter of 2010, the Company’s 
impairment testing failed to include all cash outflows necessary to develop, and that were expected to 
arise as a direct result of the use and disposition of, St. Joe’s real estate developments.8
                                                                                        In particular, 
the Company  based its impairment testing  on what it termed “ Relative Sales Value” worksheets, or 
“RSVs,” which  were a partial summary        of the cash flows found in the Company’s more 
comprehensive approved economic models.  Thus , using the RSVs as the basis for the Company     ’s 
impairment testing resulted in the exclusion of certain necessary non-capitalized cash outflows 
associated with its real estate developments.  Had these additional required cash outflows been 
included in the Company  ’s impairment testing, the Company   would have been required to take 
impairment charges on three of its largest real estate developments during the Relevant Period, 
namely, the projects called Victoria Park, Southwood, and WaterColor.  Combined, the impairments 
not taken on these projects amounted to at least $ 55 million in Q1 2009 and $19 million in Q4 2009, 
and resulted in materially misstated financial statements during those same periods, which continued 
through the remainder of the Relevant Perio d.9
                                               

       As Directors of Accounting, Jones (during all of 2009 as well as the first six months of 2010), 
and Salter (from July 2, 2010 through the balance of the Relevant Period ) were responsible for 
preparing the Company  ’s quarterly impairment testing in connection with the Company ’s preparation 
of annual and quarterly financial statements.  Each  should have known that the Company’s quarterly 
impairment testing failed to comply with GAAP because the RSVs      did not include all  cash outflows  
necessary to develop each project.   

       For their part, Greene, McCalmont and Connolly were responsible for reviewing and 
approving the Company   ’s quarterly impairment testing.  Additionally, as members of the Investment 
Committee, Greene, McCalmont and Connolly were also responsible for reviewing and approving       all 
updates to the detailed business assumptions and cash flows  in each of St. Joe’s real estate 
development projects’ economic models.  Greene, McCalmont and Connolly each failed to prevent or 
detect the inconsistencies between the  cash flows used in the RSVs  for impairment testing  and the 
corresponding complete cash flows in the economic models   .  Each also failed to ensure that all 
necessary costs be considered in the impairment testing which  each reviewed and approved.  As a 
result, each failed to prevent the overstatements in earnings and assets that resulted from the 
Company’s use of incomplete cash outflows in its   impairment testing .     

                                                 
8
 ASC 360-10-35-29; ASC 360-10-35-34.  
9
 The Company reported a $67.8 million impairment in connection with the sale of its Victoria Park real estate 
asset in Q4 2009.  Accordingly, had the Company properly taken a $55 million impairment on the Victoria Park 
asset in Q1 2009, its reported Q4 2009 impairment of Victoria Park would have been reduced. 

                                                 5 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

               b.  Failure to Consider Alternative Courses of Action 

       The Company    failed to apply the pertinent GAAP in another respect in the F all of 2009, with 
this lapse materially impacting a single project and reporting period.  In particular, in performing and 
approving the Company   ’s quarterly impairment testing of its Victoria Park project as a long-lived 
asset to be held and used in connection with preparing the Company  ’s Q3 2009 financial statements, 
Greene, McCalmont, and Connolly     gave no consider ation to the  likelihood of  selling that project in 
bulk by December 31, 2009.  10
                                They each omitted any such consideration despite St. Joe having made 
substantial efforts to pursue and achieve a sale.  Instead, the Q3 2009 impairment test of Victoria Park 
was improperly  performed using only the estimated cash flows expected from the l  ong-term 
development of the project. 

       In the Spring of 2009, the Company  ’s Investment Committee (which then included Greene 
and McCalmont) approved the sale of  Victoria Park in bulk at a substantial loss if such a transaction 
could be closed by December 31, 2009.   11
                                           Immediately thereafter, the Company   began pursuing the 
sale of Victoria Park and, during its third quarter (which encompassed June through September), 
received numerous letters of intent from buyers offering to purchase the property for prices ranging 
from $9 million  to $15 million.  Before the end of the quarter, St. Joe decided to pursue a sale to 
Company A, while maintain   ing contact with another interested party (hereinafter “Company  B”) as a 
potential back-up buyer.  On October 1, 2009, during St. Joe’s quarter-end close process for Q3 2009, 
Company A signed a contract to purchase Victoria Park for $15 million.  On October 30, 2009, 
however, Company    A withdrew from the transaction  , at which time McCalmont informed St. Joe’s    
independent auditor and Audit Committee of Company A’s withdrawal.  As  a result of Company A’s 
disengagement, St. Joe  immediately pursued its contingency plan with the back- up buyer, Company     
B.  Only one day after Company   A’s withdrawal, St. Joe scheduled a meeting with Company      B to 
negotiate the sale of the development, and only four days after Company  A’s withdrawal, St. Joe sent 
Company B a draft purchase agreement.  Further, in anticipation of a sale and in order to accelerate 
the timing of a sale, St. Joe had, by October 2009, prepared documentation that it felt would likely be 
requested by a buyer.  As a result of St. Joe’s maintaining Company  B as a potential contingency 
purchaser, early preparation of documentation, and immediate follow  -up with Company    B, Company 
B entered into a purchase and sale agreement, subject to diligence, to purchase Victoria Park for $11 
million on November 12, 2009, two weeks after Company      A withdrew.  The transaction closed on 
December 15, 2009, and on that day the Company filed a Form 8-    K announcing the sale of Victoria 
Park. 

       During the four  days between Company    A’s withdrawal from the transactio n on October 30  th
                                                                                                      
and St. Joe’s November 3, 2009 filing of its Q3 2009 Form 10-  Q, St. Joe performed impairment 
testing on Victoria Park as an asset  to be held and used (under development) without  consider ing the 

                                                 
10
  In performing an impairment test, estimated undiscounted cash flows should consider the likelihood of all 
possible outcomes associated with any alternative courses of action under consideration for asset.  ASC 
360-10-35-30. 
11
  St. Joe was pursuing this sale in order to take advantage of a tax-loss carryback benefit then available to the 
Company for losses occurring before the end of 2009.  This tax-loss carryback benefit could have been obtained 
only if the sale of Victoria Park were completed before the end of the 2009 calendar year.   

                                                  6 
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

likelihood of a potential sale of the project by the end of 2009.12
                                                                  Instead, St. Joe considered only the 
single course of action of St. Joe’s fully developing the property through 2026.  Had St. Joe 
considered the undiscounted cash flows associated with even a small likelihood of selling Victoria 
Park by year end 2009, and had it—pursuant to ASC 360—incorporated such        likelihood into its 
impairment testing, it would have been required to impair  Victoria Park by  at least $55 million in its 
Q3 2009 filing, a material amount. 13
                                       

       In performing procedures related to   the Company ’s Q3 2009 impairment test  ing for Victoria 
Park, the Company  ’s independent auditors relied on representations made by Greene, McCalmont, 
and Connolly in a management representation letter associated with their Q3 2009 review    that the 
probability of selling Victoria Park by  year end 2009 was “highly improbable, such that it [was] 
essentially nil.”  While  McCalmont informed the independent auditors of the existence of Company B 
as a potential back-up buyer, neither he, nor any of the other executives, informed the auditors of the 
extensive steps St.  Joe had taken towards consummating a sale with Company    B, including the fact 
that a draft purchase agreement was  sent to Company  B on the same day  that Greene, McCalmont, 
Connolly signed the management representation letter.  Accordingly  , St. Joe’s  failure to perform the 
Q3 2009 impairment testing of Victoria Park in accordance with GAAP      went undetected by the 
Company’s independent auditors.   

       3.      Failures in the Wa  ke of Discovering  the  Incorrect  Accounting   

       On October 13, 2010, a short -seller gave a public presentation alleging that St. Joe was 
overvaluing its real estate development assets  and failing to take material impairment charges.  
Following the presentation, there was increased focus within the Company   on its impairment testing.  
Although the Company   ’s impairment testing, as prepared by Salter and reviewed and approved by 
Greene, McCalmont and Connolly, had continued     —up to and including the day of the short  -seller 
presentation—to improperly utilize RSVs, Salter at some point came to realize   that this RSV -based 
method of impairment testing had been improper because it failed to include all necessary cash 
outflows. Salter subsequently caused the Company    to change its impairment testing methodology 
going forward to one properly based on  cash flows in the Company  ’s comprehensive economic 
models, which included additional necessary cash outflows.  Greene, McCalmont, Connolly and 
Salter nonetheless did not identify or correct any errors in St. Joe’s prior -period financials that 
resulted from the faulty methodology.  Salter also improperly used assumptions generated after the 
quarter ended September 30, 2010 in connection with at least one real estate development   in 
conducting that particular  quarter’s impairment testing.  

               a.  Failure to Review Prior Periods 

       Greene, McCalmont, Connolly and Salter    failed to review or effectively cause a review of St. 
Joe’s accounting for prior periods, and also  failed to  identify, correct or cause to be corrected the 

                                                 
12
  The updated Victoria Park model was not subjected to the Company’s established Investment Committee or 
impairment testing processes, as Greene, McCalmont, and Connolly knew. 
13
  The $67.8 million Victoria Park impairment charge (referenced in note 9, supra                                                              ), was taken by St. Joe in Q4 
2009 to reflect the finalized sale of Victoria Park to Company B at a significant loss. 

                                                 7 
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

resulting errors in previously issued financial statements.14
                                                            While Salter recognized  past flaws in St. 
Joe’s impairment testing process and changed the Company’s impairment testing methodology to one 
properly including additional necessary cash outflows, he failed to review the impairment accounting 
for prior periods.  For his part, Greene also had concerns over prior period impairment testing 
independent of Salter’s discovery of the improper accounting.  Greene expressed   these concerns to 
McCalmont and Connolly within a few days following the short-seller presentation, and asked 
McCalmont to confirm that St. Joe’s impairment procedures     were compliant in prior periods before 
St. Joe filed its Q3 2010 financials.  McCalmont nevertheless did not review prior periods, and 
Greene failed to follow up with McCalmont on the issue.  For her part, Connolly also failed to 
conduct any review of prior period accounting.  

       Had Salter, McCalmont or Connolly reviewed the impairment testing for prior periods, or had 
Greene caused such a review to take place, they would have dis  covered that St. Joe had improperly 
failed to record  at least $ 74 million in impairments, as described above, associated with three of its 
real estate developments from approximately Q1 2009 through at least Q2 2010.  As a result, the  
aforementioned errors were not corrected in  the Company’s relevant   previously issued financial 
statements. 

               b.  Failure to Use Existing Approved Assumptions       For Q3 2010 Impairment 
                   Testing 

       As noted above, the Company    ’s faulty RSV-based impairment testing had persisted until the 
very day of the short-seller presentation.  In particular, on October 13, 2010, Greene, McCalmont and 
Connolly had performed the final management review of St. Joe’s Q3 2010 impairment testing, which 
Salter had prepared using the improper RSV methodology.  Had      this impairment testing been 
performed properly during the October 13, 2010 review , however, by including all necessary future 
cash outflows, a material impairment would have been required   for at least one of the Company’s real 
estate developments.  

       Following the short -seller presentation, the Company ’s auditors asked for all of St. Joe’s 
economic models for its real estate developments in connection with the auditors’  review of, among 
other things, St. Joe’s impairment testing for the quarter end ed September 30, 2010.   In response, 
Salter sent at least one economic model reflecting  materially updated assumptions adopted 
subsequent to the Company’s internal October 13, 2010 impairment review.     15
                                                                                These updated 
assumptions should not have been used in c  onducting the impairment testing associated with 
preparing the third quarter financial statements because the assumptions were based on conditions not 
existing as of September 30, 2010. 16
                                      Had St . Joe tested the economic models with assumptions 

                                                 
14
  See ASC 250-10-45-23.  
15
  The updated economic model was not subjected to the Company’s established Investment Committee process, 
as Salter knew.   
16
  Evidence about conditions that did not exist at the balance sheet date should not be recognized in the financial 
statements issued as of the balance sheet date. Instead, the entity should consider whether the nature of the new 
evidence should be disclosed to keep the financial statements from being misleading. See ASC 855-10-25-3 and 
ASC 855-10-50-2. 

                                                  8 
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

adopted as of September 30, 2010, it would have been required to account for    approximately $ 15 
million in impairments in its Q3 2010 Form 10-   Q.17
                                                      

       4.      Applying Unreasonably High Beachfront Pricing for Impairment Purposes  

       Windmark Beach II (“Windmark II”), located in Port St. Joe, Florida, was St. Joe’s largest real 
estate development in terms of capital expenditures during 2009 and 2010, with a book value in St. 
Joe’s public filings of over $165 million, including commercial and   resort operations.  Windmark II 
was also a primary target of the October 13, 2010  short-seller presentation, which heavily  criticized 
the project’s lack of development and stated that Windmark II  was overvalued. 

       In Q4 2010, St. Joe adopted a new business plan for the Windmark II development, referred to 
as a “bulk sale” strategy, whereby St. Joe would cease all material development of the project, retain 
all undeveloped land until 2020, and sell it in bulk at that time.  The new bulk-sale economic model, 
however, also assigned an unreasonably high valuation to certain undeveloped beachfront land in 
Windmark II.  Specifically, the new valuation of the undeveloped beachfront land was based on a 
price of $6,000 per-linear foot as of 2010.  The valuation’s future bulk- sale price, in the year 2020, 
was over $7,600 per-linear foot, or $1.4 million per acre, based on an assumed annual appreciation of 
3%.  Greene approved these prices despite evidence then existing and known to him indicating a 
substantially lower value.18
                             The Company   ’s Vice President of Development refused to sign the 
portion of the Windmark II model with   an undeveloped beachfront price above $3,500 per linear foot.  
As a result, Greene signed off on the Windmark II bulk undeveloped beachfront portion of the 
updated Windmark II economic model.  For their part, although McCalmont and        Connolly were both 
members of the Investment Committee approving economic models at the time and had responsibility 
for approving quarterly impairment testing , neither raised any concerns or otherwise took any steps to 
test the reasonableness of this pricing assumption.  

       The unreasonabl  e $6,000 per -linear foot undeveloped beachfront pricing in the revised 
Windmark II economic model had the effect of generating    sufficient notional cash flows to render the 
project recoverable and thus not require any impairment charge in   Q4 2010 .  Had St. Joe performed 
an impairment test using, instead, a reasonable valuation based on comparable sales and other 
available evidence, the Windmark II real estate development would not have been recoverable, and 
the Company   wou ld have been required to take an impairment charge of at least $80   million  in Q4 
2010.   

        

        
                                                 
17
  Moreover, St. Joe’s independent auditors were not made aware of the fact that the updated economic model 
employed assumptions not based on conditions existing as of the end of the third quarter 2010.  
18
  During 2010, there were only two beachfront home site sales in Windmark II.  Both sales had a 
price-per-linear-foot of less than $2,000.  Further more, St. Joe personnel assembled comparable property sales 
from other non-St. Joe projects, and, out of the 21 sales in question, only one was priced at or above $6,000 per 
linear foot, and only one was priced greater than $1 million per acre.  It does not appear that any of this 
evidence—all available at the time—was considered in estimating cash flows for the impairment test for 
Windmark II.   

                                                   9 
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

       5.     Failing to Disclose Significant  Change in Business Strategy  

       St. Joe’s 2010 Form 10-K contained material misstatements and omissions concerning its 
development plans for two of its largest real estate projects, Windmark II and Southwood.  In Q4 
2010, St. Joe’s Investment Committee (then consisting of Greene, McCalmont and Connolly) 
adopted new “bulk sale” strategies and economic models for both these developments.  These new 
strategies constituted a significant shift for the Company that halted all material future development at 
both sites and instead consisted of long term retention of the undeveloped land and selling it, 
undeveloped, in the future. 

       St. Joe’s disclosures concerning the Windmark II and Southwood developments in relevant     
sections of its 2010 10-K, however, failed to mention this significant change in strategy.  Instead, as to 
Windmark II, St. Joe represented (Item 1, Business                         of the Company), that “[p]lans for [Windmark II] 
include approximately 1,516 residential units and 76,000 square feet of commercial space,” and that 
the community would include “approximately 14 miles of walkways and boardwalks, including a 3.5 
mile boardwalk.”  By contrast, the Company  ’s approved economic model for Windmark II, as of 
December 31, 2010, provided for total residential development of 191 home sites   – comprising just   
13% of the development promised in the 10-  K. 

       As to Southwood, St. Joe’s 2010 10- K represented (in Item 1, Business                          of the Company) that 
Southwood remained “[p]lanned to include approximately 4,770 residential units.”  By contrast, the 
Company’s approved economic model for Southwood, as of December 31, 2010, called for ceasing 
all future material parcel development and selling the undeveloped land through 2020. 19
                                                                                          

       Greene and McCalmont, in certifying the Company    ’s 2010 Form 10-K in their capacities as 
CEO and CFO, respectively, and during a time of heighted public scrutiny over St. Joe’s real estate 
development assets, should have known that the Company    ’s disclosures concerning continued 
development plans at Windmark II and Southwood were misleading because they failed to disclose 
the Company’s Investment Committee-approved plans to cease material residential development and 
sell undeveloped land in bulk.  Further, in their Sarbanes-Oxley 302 certifications, Greene and 
McCalmont both represented that they reviewed the Form 10-K and that, based on their knowledge, 
the report did not contain any material misstatements and omissions. 

       6.     Inadequate Books and Records 

       During the Relevant Period, St. Joe failed to maintain adequate books-and-records concerning 
its impairment testing of real estate developments.  Specifically, during the Relevant Period, St. Joe 
failed to sufficiently perform the following: maintain adequate records of quarterly impairment 
testing reviewed as part of its quarterly and annual accounting close process; document support for 
assumptions used in undiscounted cash flows used in impairment testing; document its processes and 
procedures concerning impairment testing; maintain the integrity of the economic models and RSVs 
used in connection with past impairment testing; and document identif ied errors in past impairment 
testing.   Importantly, St. Joe’s books-and-records failures during the Relevant Period adversely 
                                                 
19
  The remaining development planned for Southwood was the building of “backbone” roads and connections to 
general utility services—development that was required as a condition of the Community Development District 
loans that St. Joe had received for the project.     

                                                10 
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

impacted the SEC   investigation  leading to this Order , including causing unreasonably prolonged 
uncertainty concerning the Company’s historic impairment testing procedures and causing 
substantial delays to, and otherwise unnecessary steps in, that investigation.20
                                                                                 

       7.      Later Developments     

       Following the Relevant Period, St. Joe made significant changes in personnel at both the 
management and Board of Directors level, referenced in note 4 above.   In addition, in the fourth quarter 
of 2011, with Salter’s assistance, St. Joe’s new Board and management (which included Connolly as 
CFO at the time), citing the adoption of a new business strategy, recognized aggregate impairment losses 
of over $374 million associated with its investments in real estate.  These impairments included more 
than $126 million to Windmark II and more than $17 million to Southwood.  Collectively, the 
impairments taken by the Company in Q4 2011 resulted in reductions to St. Joe’s investment in real 
estate, and to its total asset value, of more than 50% and more than 35%, respectively.  

                                               Findings 

       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent The St. Joe Company         violated 
Securities Act Sections 17(a)(2) and  (3) and  Exchange Act Sections   13(a), 13(b)(2)(A)  and (B), and 
Exchange Act Rules 12b-20, 13a-1. 13a-11 and 13a-13. 

       Based on the foregoing, the Commission further finds:  (1) that Respondent Gre     ene violated 
and Respondents McCalmont, Connolly and Salter willfully      21
                                                                 violated Securities Act Sections 
17(a)(2) and (3), Exchange Act  Section   13(b)(5), and Exchange Act Rules 13b2- 1 and 13b2-2; (2) 
that Respondents Greene, McCalmont, Connolly, Salter and Jones caused St. Joe’s violations of 
Exchange Act Sections   13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and  (B), and Exchange Act Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 
and 13a-13; (3) t hat Respondent Greene violated  and Respondent    McCalmont willfully violated 
Exchange Act Rule 13a   -14; (4) that Respondents McCalmont, Connolly, Salter and Jones also 
willfully violated the federal securities laws or rules and regulations thereunder pursuant to Section 
4C of the Exchange Act   and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice; and    (5) that 
Respondent Jones willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 13b2- 1 and caused St. Joe’s violation of 
Securities Act Section 17(a)(2).  

                                                  III. 

       In determining to accept Respondent St. Joe’s    Offer, the Commission considered remedial     
steps taken by the Company    since the conduct detailed herein, including enhancements to its 
                                                 
20
  Since the Relevant Period, the Company, under the direction of its newly constituted Board and senior 
management, has undertaken significant measures to strengthen its policies and procedures for maintaining 
books and records. 
21
  The use of the word “willful” (both here and throughout the Findings section of this Order) does not reflect a 
finding that the Respondents acted with the intention to violate the law or knowledge that they were doing so.  As 
used in the governing provisions of law, “willfully” means only that the actor “intentionally committed the act 
which constitutes the violation.”  Tager v. SEC                            , 344 F.2d 5, 8 (2d Cir. 1965); see also Wonsover v. SEC            , 205 F.3d 
408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000).  “There is no requirement that the actor also be aware that he is violating one of the 
Rules or Acts . . . .” Tager                 , 344 F.2d at 8. 

                                                  11 
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

impairment testing, accounting, internal controls, and books-and-records policies and procedures, 
together with its replacement of its executive officers and Board.  

                                                IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions agreed 
to in Respondents’ Offers. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  

              A.  Pursuant to Securities Act Section 8A, Respondent  s St. Joe, Greene, McCalmont, 
       Connolly, and Salter shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
       future violations of Securities Act Sections 17(a)(2) and (3), and Respondent Jones shall cease 
       and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Securities 
       Act Section 17(a)(2). 

              B.  Pursuant to Exchange Act Section 21C, Respondents St. Joe, Greene, McCalmont, 
       Connolly, Salter and Jones shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations 
       and any future violations of Exchange Act Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and  (B), and Exchange 
       Act Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13; Respondents Greene, McCalmont, Connolly 
       and Salter shall further cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
       future violations of Exchange Act Section 13(b)(5) and Exchange Act Rules 13b2-1 and 
       13b2-2; Respondents Greene and McCalmont shall further cease and desist from committing 
       or causing any violations and any future violations of Exchange Act Rule 13a-14; and, finally, 
       Respondent Jones shall further cease and desist from committing or causing any violations 
       and any future violations of Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1. 

              C.  Respondent  St. Joe shall, within ten (10) days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil 
       money penalty in the amount of $2,750,000, to the Securities and Exchange Commission for 
       transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 
       21F(g)(3).  If payment of this civil penalty is not timely made, additional interest shall accrue 
       pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717.   

              D.  Respondent Greene shall, within ten (10) days of the entry of this Order, pay (i) 
       disgorgement of $400,000 plus prejudgment interest of $52,300, for a total of $452,300, and 
       (ii) a civil money penalty in the amount of $120,000, to the Securities and Exchange 
       Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to 
       Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  If payment of disgorgement is not timely made, additional 
       interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600.  If payment of the civil penalty is 
       not timely made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717. 

              E.  Respondent McCalmont shall, within ten (10) days of the entry of this Order, pay 
       (i) disgorgement of $180,000 plus prejudgment interest of $22,868, for a total of $202,868, 
       and (ii) a civil money penalty in the amount of $120,000, to the Securities and Exchange 
       Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to 
       Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  If payment of disgorgement is not timely made, additional 
       interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600.  If payment of the civil penalty is 
       not timely made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717.   

                                                12 
 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

              F.  Respondent Connolly shall, within ten (10) days of the entry of this Order, pay (i) 
       disgorgement of $60,000 plus prejudgment interest of $10,896, for a total of $70,896, and (ii) 
       a civil money penalty in the amount of $70,000, to the Securities and Exchange Commission 
       for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 
       21F(g)(3).  If payment of disgorgement is not timely made, additional interest shall accrue 
       pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600.  If payment of the civil penalty is not timely made, 
       additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717. 

              G.  Respondent Salter shall, within ten (10) days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil 
       money penalty in the amount of $25,000, to the Securities and Exchange Commission for 
       transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 
       21F(g)(3).  If payment of this civil penalty is not timely made, additional interest shall accrue 
       pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717. 

              H.  All payments required by this Order must be made in one of the following ways:  

              (1) Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will 
                  provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request; 

              (2) Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through 
                  the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or 

              (3) Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States 
                  postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission 
                  and hand-delivered or mailed to: 

                  Enterprise Services Center 
                  Accounts Receivable Branch  
                  HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                  6500 South MacArthur Boulevard  
                  Oklahoma City, OK 73169 

       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
       Respondent as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these 
       proceedings.  A copy of the cover letter and check or money order, or documentation of 
       whatever other form of payment is used, must be simultaneously sent to Stephen L. 
       Cohen, Associate Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange 
       Commission, 100 F St., N.E., Washington, DC 20549. 

              I.  Respondents McCalmont, Connolly, Salter and Jones are each denied the privilege 
       of appearing and practicing before the Commission as an accountant. 

              J.  After three (3) years from the date of this Order, Respondents Connolly and Salter 
       may, and after two (2) years from the date of this Order, Respondent Jones may request that 
       the Commission consider his or her reinstatement by submitting an application (Attention:  
       Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

              (1) A preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, of 
                  any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  
                                                13 
 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

                  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in 
                  his/her practice before the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent 
                  audit committee of the public company   for which he/she works or in some other 
                  acceptable manner, as long as he/she practices before the Commission in this 
                  capacity; and/or 

              (2) An independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that: 
 
                  (a) Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he/she is associated, is 
                      registered with the Public Company  Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
                      accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration 
                      continues to be effective; 
                  (b) Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he/she is 
                      associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify 
                      any criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality 
                      control system that would indicate that the respondent will not receive 
                      appropriate supervision; 
                  (c) Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has 
                      complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board 
                      (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
                  (d) Respondent acknowledges his/her responsibility, as long as Respondent 
                      appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
                      comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but 
                      not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring 
                      partner reviews and quality control standards. 

              K.  The Commission will consider an application by Respondent    s Connolly, Salter, 
       and Jones to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his/her state 
       CPA license is current and he/she has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable 
       state boards of accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
       Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
       Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
       above, any other matters relating to the applying Respondent’s character, integrity, 
       professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission.  

              L.  After two (2)  years from the date of this order, Respondent McCalmont may 
       request that the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application 
       (attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the 
       Commission as an accountant. 

                                                V. 
        
       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code [11 U.S.C. § 523], the findings in this Order are true and admitted by 
Respondents Greene, McCalmont, Connolly and Salter, and further, any debt for disgorgement, 
prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other amounts due by each of the aforementioned Respondents 
                                                14 
 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree or settlement agreement entered 
in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by said Respondent of the federal 
securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of 
the Bankruptcy Code [11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19)]. 

       By the Commission. 

        
                                             Brent J. Fields 
                                             Secretary 

                                                 15 
 
