---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                       

                         UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                    Before the 
                  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 9804 / June 5, 2015 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 75110 / June 5, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3662 / June 5, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16575 
 
                                           ORDER INSTITUTING  PUBLIC 
In the Matter of                           ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE -AND-
                                           DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
      COMPUTER SCIENCES                    SECTION  8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT OF 
      CORPORATION,  MICHAEL                1933, SECTION S 4C AND 21C OF THE 
      LAPHEN , MICHAEL                     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, 
      MANCUSO, WAYNE BANKS,                AND RULE 102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S 
      CLAUS ZILMER,  AND PAUL                                    
      WAKEFIELD                         
                                                                         
Respondent s.                                       “       ”  
 
 
                                             
 
                                        I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Claus Zilmer and pursuant to Section 8A of the 
Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 21C of the Exchange Act against Computer 
Sciences Corporation (“CSC”), Michael Laphen, Michael Mancuso, Wayne Banks, and Paul 
Wakefield (collectively with Zilmer, “Respondents”); and that public administrative proceedings 
be, and hereby are, instituted against Laphen, Banks, and Wakefield pursuant to Exchange Act 
Section 4C and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.   

 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                      

                                                 II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) that the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose 
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are 
admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order, as set forth below.   
        
                                                 III. 
 
                                                                                   1
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds     : 

                                           SUMMARY 
 
       1.      From 2009 to 2011, CSC engaged in a wide-ranging accounting and disclosure 
fraud that materially overstated its earnings and concealed from investors significant problems 
with its largest contract.  Former CEO Michael Laphen approved CSC’s use of improper 
accounting models for the company’s multi-billion dollar contract with the United Kingdom’s 
National Health Service (“NHS”).  Laphen and former CFO Michael Mancuso also failed to 
make required disclosures and made misleading statements to investors about the NHS contract.  
And in one quarter, CSC’s former Finance Director for the NHS account prepared a fraudulent 
accounting model in which he included made-up assumptions to avoid a negative hit to CSC’s 
earnings.  As this was occurring in the United States and the United Kingdom, senior CSC 
finance personnel in Australia fraudulently overstated the company’s earnings using “cookie jar” 
reserves and by failing to record expenses as required.  Separately, CSC finance personnel in 
Denmark engaged in a variety of fraudulent accounting manipulations that also overstated the 
company’s earnings.  Throughout this period, CSC’s most senior executives and various finance 
personnel repeatedly failed to comply with straightforward accounting standards and disclosure 
rules.  

                      2
       2.      CSC’s     contract with the NHS was a significant source of concern for the 
company  .  It was the company’s largest, and most high profile contract, and CSC experienced 
substantial difficulties performing as required, even after the contract was amended in 2009 to 
give CSC additional time to meet deadlines it had missed.  CSC’s failure to meet its deadlines 
would have significantly reduced the profit the company could make from the project.  Under the 

                                                 
1
        The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  

2
       The  NHS awarded the contract to a CSC affiliate in the UK, CSC Computer Sciences Ltd., which 
performed the NHS contract.  Throughout this document “CSC” may refer to CSC, the issuer, or its foreign 
subsidiaries or affiliates. 

                                                   
                                                  2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                                 

relevant  accounting  standards , every time CSC forecasted that it would earn a lower  profit 
margin  than it had previously expected, it was required to report a reduction in its earnings.   

       3.     In September 2009, CSC finance personnel responsible for the NHS contract 
prepared an initial accounting model that reflected the NHS contract was no longer profitable.  
This was a significant change from prior models, which had forecast a 16% profit margin.  In 
response, Robert Sutcliffe, the Finance Director on the NHS account, led a fraudulent “gap 
closing” exercise in which his team simply contrived assumptions about additional revenue CSC 
would earn on the contract.  These assumptions had no basis in reality.  The accounting model 
they prepared artificially restored the forecasted profit margin to its previous level, thereby 
avoiding the material reduction in operating income that GAAP required CSC to record.  

       4.     With delays continuing, the NHS account team warned Laphen and Mancuso that 
CSC would need a “major contract reset” and would need to “re-cast” its accounting models in 
the future.  In late 2009, Laphen and Mancuso were aware that CSC began using proposed 
contract amendments that CSC was negotiating with the NHS, and that Laphen and Mancuso 
hoped the UK government would agree to implement, as the basis for CSC’s accounting models 
rather than the enforceable contract with the NHS.  They did so even though the assumptions in 
the company’s accounting models bore scant relation to the actual contract.  Most significantly, 
notwithstanding CSC’s delays and the UK government’s criticism of CSC’s performance, these 
accounting models assumed the UK government would agree to pay substantially higher prices 
than required by the contract for less work so that CSC could maintain its expected profit 
margin.   

       5.     As CSC’s delays continued and its profit margin under the enforceable contract 
declined, and with CSC and the NHS unable to reach agreement on potential amendments, the 
account team avoided recording material reductions in CSC’s earnings by adjusting the models 
to assume the UK government would agree to pay progressively higher prices.  CSC included 
these assumptions in its models for a two-year period despite the NHS’s repeated rejections of 
CSC’s proposed amendments, even though NHS personnel and UK government officials stated 
frequently they were unhappy with CSC’s performance, and even after the Chair of the UK’s 
Public Accounts Committee was quoted publicly as saying CSC’s proposed contract 
amendments were “unspeakably unacceptable” and “[t]here is no way these guys ought to be 
working for the government.”  This was a clear violation of GAAP.  CSC also failed to comply 
with GAAP by failing to impair the value of its contract assets when it ceased to be probable that 
the company would recover its investment in the program. 

       6.     CSC also made misleading statements to investors and failed to make required 
disclosures regarding the NHS contract.  On two occasions in 2009, Laphen told investors that 
CSC had met, and expected to continue meeting, its deadlines.  These disclosures were 
misleading because they failed to inform investors that CSC was not achieving the milestones set 

                                                 
                                               3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                                                                                       

                                                                                3
forth in the contract; that Laphen was referring to informally  revised  deadlines;  that CSC was 
engaged in an ongoing dispute with the NHS about which milestones applied; that CSC       ’s 
deployment projections were falling far short of expectations; and that the NHS had sent letters 
asserting that CSC was in default and demanding that CSC pay penalties.   

       7.      In violation of multiple disclosure requirements, Laphen and Mancuso repeatedly 
failed to inform investors of these issues.  They also failed to disclose that CSC was calculating 
its profit margin for the NHS contract using its proposed contract amendments — instead of the 
binding contract between the parties — and that CSC would have to record a material decrease in 
its earnings unless the NHS and various other UK government bodies agreed to amend the contract 
to require them to pay CSC significantly higher prices.  

       8.      In addition, CSC made misleading statements and failed to make required 
disclosures to investors about the relationship between the NHS contract and one of CSC’s most 
                                             4
important financial metrics, free cash flow.     The  NHS   had  agreed to provide CSC   cash advances 
to help offset the company  ’s costs.  Although GAAP allowed CSC to record these advances as 
operating cash flow, rather than financing cash flow, they were effectively loans.  CSC 
effectively paid the NHS a 5% interest rate for the advances and refunded the portions of the 
advances that CSC was unable to earn in revenue.  CSC’s former Treasurer had recommended to 
Mancuso that CSC lower the amounts of the advances because the high costs of the arrangement 
resulted in an economic loss for CSC.  However, Mancuso rejected this recommendation.  He 
directed that the advances continue because they allowed CSC to meet its cash flow targets.  The 
amounts of these advances as a percentage of CSC’s free cash flow, and the amounts CSC 
returned to the NHS as its delays continued, increased substantially — peaking at 63% of CSC’s 
free cash flow in Q4FY2011, with the company subsequently returning 93% of that advance 
when the NHS finally ended the arrangement in FY2012.     

       9.      In violation of SEC disclosure rules, Mancuso repeatedly failed to disclose that 
these unusual advances from the NHS comprised significant proportions of its free cash flow 
results.  Moreover, on two occasions, Mancuso made misleading statements to investors about 
the advances.  During CSC’s year-end earnings calls for FY2009, a financial analyst asked 
Mancuso whether CSC had received “any large prepayments” from NHS or other clients during 
the fourth quarter of FY2009.  Even though he knew that CSC had indeed received a large 
prepayment from the NHS in that period, Mancuso replied that the company had not.  And during 
CSC’s year-end earnings call for FY2010, Mancuso led investors to believe CSC had not 
received a large advance from the NHS, telling investors that CSC had achieved its free cash 
flow results “the old fashioned hard way.”  Mancuso attributed CSC’s cash flow results, which he 

                                                 
3
        The NHS agreed to a new set of deadlines it identified as “highest priorities (and bare minimum[s])” but 
noted that these were not “in any way a waiver of CSC’s obligations to deliver its contracted requirements.” 
 
4
       Although free cash flow is a non-GAAP   metric , many CSC analysts consider it to be an important 
performance metric because it reflects how much cash the company is generating. 

                                                    
                                                  4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                                                                                

described as “a glowing achievement” and “not unnatural,” to improvements in working capital 
and receivables.   

       10.    In addition to the accounting and disclosure violations involving the NHS contract, 
two of CSC’s international businesses ignored basic accounting standards to increase their reported 
profits.  In Australia, CSC’s two most senior finance executives in the country, regional CFO 
Wayne Banks and Controller Edward Parker, fraudulently manipulated the company’s earnings 
through excess accruals they maintained in “cookie jar” reserves and by failing to record expenses 
as required.  This fraud alone overstated CSC’s consolidated pretax income by over 5% in 
Q1FY2009, and allowed CSC to meet analysts’ earnings targets in that period.   

       11.    And during FY2010, CSC’s Nordic region engaged in a variety of accounting 
manipulations to fraudulently inflate its operating results.  These included improperly accounting 
for client disputes, overstating assets, and capitalizing expenses.  The fraudulent conduct involved 
Finance Director of the Nordic region Paul Wakefield and other employees in Denmark.  CSC’s 
Nordic region engaged in this misconduct to improve operating income in a region that was 
struggling to achieve budgets set by CSC management in the U.S.  During FY2010, the accounting 
fraud in Denmark overstated CSC’s consolidated pre-tax income by 5% in Q1FY2010, 3% in 
Q2FY2010, 4% in Q3FY2010, and 7% in Q4FY2010. 
 
                                      RESPONDENTS 
 
       12.    Computer Sciences Corporation sells information technology services.  It is a 
Nevada corporation headquartered in Falls Church, VA.  CSC’s common stock is currently 
registered with the Commission pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12(b) and trades on the New 
York Stock Exchange. 

       13.    Michael Laphen, 64, was CEO and Chairman of CSC from 2007 until his 
retirement in March 2012, after 35 years with the company.  Laphen holds a bachelor’s degree in 
Accounting from Pennsylvania State University and an MBA from the University of 
Pennsylvania.  Laphen was licensed as a certified public accountant in Pennsylvania from 1975 to 
1990, when his license became inactive. 

       14.    Michael Mancuso, 72, was CFO of CSC from December 2008 until his retirement 
in May 2012.  Previously, Mancuso was the CFO of General Dynamics Corp.  Mancuso holds a 
bachelor’s degree in Business Administration from Villanova University and an MBA from 
Eastern College.  

       15.    Wayne Banks, 47, a citizen and resident of Australia, was CSC Australia’s CFO 
from 2006 until he resigned in July 2011.  Banks has a bachelor’s degree in Business and is a 
Chartered Accountant in Australia.   
 
       16.    Paul Wakefield, 42, a citizen and resident of the UK, was the Finance Director of 
the Nordic region from April 2008 to April 2010.  Wakefield resigned from CSC in April 2010.  

                                                
                                               5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                                                                                                   

Wakefield is a  n associate  of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants in the U K.  
Wakefield entered into a cooperation agreement with the Division of Enforcement pursuant to 
which he has agreed to cooperate fully in the SEC’s investigation; in any related enforcement 
litigation or proceedings to which the SEC is a party; and, when directed by SEC Enforcement 
Division staff, in an official investigation or proceeding by any federal, state, or self-regulatory 
organization. 
        
       17.    Claus Zilmer, 48, a citizen and resident of Denmark, was a Finance Manager for 
CSC’s Nordic region from April 2008 until June 2010.  Zilmer left CSC in September 2010.  
Zilmer holds a degree in Economics and Business Administration from Odense University, now 
known as the University of Southern Denmark.  
 
                               OTHER RELEVANT PERSONS 
 
       18.    Robert Sutcliffe, 51, a citizen and resident of the UK, was CSC’s Finance Director 
for the NHS account from April 2004 until May 2012.  CSC suspended Sutcliffe in May 2012 and 
terminated his employment in 2013.  Sutcliffe studied accounting and business finance at 
Manchester University.  He is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants 
(CIMA) in the UK.  The Commission has charged Sutcliffe for his role in the misconduct 
described in its Order.  

       19.    Edward Parker, 42, a citizen and resident of Australia, was CSC Australia’s 
financial controller from 2007 until the company suspended him in August 2011.  He left the 
company in October 2012.  Parker has been a licensed Chartered Accountant in Australia since 
1994.  The Commission has charged Parker for his role in the misconduct described in its Order.  
        
       20.    Chris Edwards, 32, a citizen and resident of the UK, was the Finance Manager of 
the Nordic region Global Outsourcing Services Pools from December 2008 to June 2010.   
Edwards left CSC in October 2010.  Edwards is a Chartered Accountant in the UK.  The 
Commission has charged Edwards for his role in the misconduct described in its Order. 
 
                                            FACTS 
                                                  
                         Background of CSC’s Contract with the NHS 
 
       21.    Having launched a plan in 2003 to electronically integrate patient medical records 
across the United Kingdom, the NHS awarded long-term contracts to CSC Computer Sciences, Ltd 
and three other IT contractors to build and deploy an electronic patient records system by 2013.  
The project experienced technical problems and delays almost from the start.  As other contractors 
abandoned the project, the NHS encouraged and approved of CSC expanding its role.  By 2007, 
CSC had assumed responsibility for the project throughout most of the UK.   

       22.    CSC had the potential to earn $5.4 billion in revenue if it were able to satisfy the 
terms of the NHS contract.  CSC earned revenue under the contract only to the extent that it 
                                                  
                                                6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                                                                                                             

delivered products   and services   to  the  NHS  under  the timeframes and volumes set forth in the 
contract’s deployment plan.  To incentivize CSC to meet the contract’s deployment targets, the 
                                                                           5
contract penalized CSC up to $160,000 per day for missed deadlines.             

        23.     CSC experienced substantial difficulty developing the software required to run the 
patient medical records system.  Because of its delays in performing as required under the contract, 
and the UK government’s expansion of CSC’s role in the project, CSC sought contract 
amendments in 2008 to reset the deployment plan and to waive the penalties CSC was required to 
pay.  According to the UK Department of Health’s Director General for Informatics at the time, the 
NHS agreed to these amendments primarily to gain what it believed to be certainty on deployment 
dates.  In March 2008, the NHS entered into a binding Memorandum of Understanding with CSC 
that reset the deadlines.   

        24.     The NHS did not, however, have the authority to amend the contract without 
authorization from various levels of the UK government.  In addition to the NHS, the UK’s 
Department of Health, Treasury, and Cabinet Office all had to approve the amendments.  After 
obtaining these authorizations, CSC and the NHS entered into an amended contract, which the 
parties called “SARPA,” in April 2009. 

 CSC Fails to Disclose Its Need to Renegotiate the NHS Contract and Paints a Misleadingly 
                          Optimistic View of the Company’s Performance 

        25.     As CSC awaited authorization from the various levels of the UK government to 
enter into SARPA, the parties experienced difficulty in performing as required.  During this period, 
CSC management, including former CEO Laphen, was aware that CSC would not be able to meet 
its obligations in SARPA’s deployment plan.   

        26.     Because of how the parties structured the contract, CSC’s inability to comply with 
SARPA created a significant risk to the company.  According to a former CSC executive, it was 
“self-evident” to anyone familiar with the contract that if CSC failed to successfully renegotiate 
SARPA there was “a lot of revenue that would be reduced from this contract that would flow 
                                      6
straight to [CSC]’s bottom line….”      7KRXJK&6&   ¶VPDQDJHPHQWNQHZ    WKHFRPSDQ\   FRXOGQRW

                                                 
5
        Currency amounts are stated in U.S. dollars throughout this Order.  Any necessary conversions from British 
pounds to U.S. dollars reflect a dollar-to-pound ratio of 1.6 to 1. 
 
6
        CSC earned two types of revenue under the contract:  deployment revenue and service revenue.  CSC 
earned deployment revenue when it deployed the software products to the NHS.  CSC then earned service revenue 
by running and maintaining those products until the contract expired.  Because the contract had a fixed term, product 
delays could cause CSC to run out of time in which to complete all of the deployments contemplated in the contract, 
triggering a loss in potential deployment revenue.  Further, product delays compressed CSC’s run-and-maintain 
period, leading to a loss in potential service revenue.  Finally, product delays (and the bad press associated with 
them) could lead to reduced demand for CSC’s products among NHS constituents, triggering further losses in 
potential deployment and service revenue.  Such a loss in revenue created a significant risk to CSC’s expected profit 
margin on the contract.  Absent cost savings sufficient to offset the lost revenue, which were uncertain given that the 
 
                                                       
                                                     7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

                                                                                                             

meet its commitments under the new contract, and believed the NHS would not be able to meet its 
commitments, CSC signed SARPA in April 2009.  

        27.     Given that CSC’s management did not believe the company would be able to 
satisfy the requirements of the amended contract, SEC disclosure rules and GAAP required CSC to 
disclose in its public filings that it would likely experience material adverse financial consequences 
                                                                         7
if the UK government declined to amend the contract another time.           However,  the only 
substantive disclosures CSC made in     its Form 10  - K for   FY 2009  , which the company filed on May 
2 9 , 2009  , and which Laphen and Mancuso signed     ,   were  that the NHS c ontract was profitable and 
that  CSC   expected to recover the  amounts it had invested in  t he contract, which  were   then   over   $ 1  
b illion  . 

        28.     One week after filing its FY2009 Form 10-K, CSC missed the first of many key 
deployment milestones mandated in SARPA.  Several days later, the NHS sent CSC an “event of 
default” letter.  Over the next two and a half years, CSC and the NHS would exchange hundreds of 
dispute letters as they tried and repeatedly failed to agree on terms amid continuing deployment 
delays and an increasingly politically charged atmosphere. 

        29.     By mid-July 2009, Laphen was personally aware of the dispute with NHS over the 
missed milestone.  The President of CSC International informed Laphen that CSC had a “serious 
disconnect” with the NHS regarding the missed milestone.  Laphen subsequently received 
numerous updates concerning the unresolved milestone dispute with the NHS.  In late July 2009, 
account executives told Laphen that deployments were “not happening at the rate anticipated in the 
budget,” and that negotiations with NHS were “required in a number of areas,” including with 
regard to late penalties, product volumes, and deployment timeframes.   

        30.     During CSC’s earnings call for Q1FY2010 one week later, however, Laphen 
painted a misleadingly optimistic picture of the NHS contract.  Though none of the issues 
discussed above had been resolved, Laphen reported to investors that CSC had “completed the 
activities scheduled within the quarter” and was “on pace to achieve [its] next key milestone.”  
Laphen knew or should have known these disclosures were misleading because they failed to 
inform investors that CSC was not achieving the milestones set forth in the contract; that it had 
received numerous “event of default” letters from the NHS; that it was engaged in an ongoing 

                                                                                                                                                             
substantial majority of CSC’s costs on the contract were to develop and deploy the software, CSC’s expected profits 
would decline.   

7
        These disclosures were mandated by Regulation S-K Items 301, 303(a), and 303(b); FASB Accounting 
Standards Codification Topic 275 (Risks and Uncertainties); and AICPA Statement of Position 81-1 (Accounting for 
Performance of Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type Contracts) (“SOP 81-1”), Paragraph .84, referencing 
SFAS 154 (Accounting for Changes and Error Corrections), Paragraph 22.  For all financial statement periods 
ending prior to September 15, 2009, SOP 81-1 was the authoritative accounting literature.  Subsequently, the applicable 
guidance became ASC 605-35 (Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts).  FASB codification of this issue 
did not materially change the relevant accounting standards. 
 

                                                       
                                                     8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

                                                                                                                  

dispute with   the  NHS  about which milestones     applied ; that  its deployment projections were falling 
far  short of expectations ; and  that  CSC required the NHS and various other UK government bodies 
to agree to contract amendments for the company to avoid a reduction in its earnings            . 

                           CSC’s Use of Improper Accounting Models and  
                    Further Disclosure Violations Relating to the NHS Contract 

A.      Background of CSC’s Use of Percentage of Completion Accounting 

        31.     From the start of the project in 2003, CSC reported its financial results for the NHS 
                                                                                      8
contract using the percentage of completion (“POC”) method of accounting.                 So long as a 
company   ’s estimates are reasonably dependable, POC accounting allows the company to derive a 
profit margin on a contract based on its estimates of total costs and revenues over the life of a long-
term contract.  GAAP requires companies using POC accounting to revise their estimates of 
                                                                        9
expected costs and revenues continually as the work progresses.             These estimates are prepared in 
the form of accounting models.  CSC       ’s practice was to update its accounting models for the NHS 
contract in March and September of each year.    

        32.     Under POC accounting, if a company’s accounting model reflects that its profit 
margin on a contract will be different than previously forecasted, it must make an “inception-to-
date” adjustment in the current period to reflect the change in the estimated amount of total gross 
                       10
profit earned to date.      And if a company   ’s accounting model reflects that a contract will result in a 
loss to the company, GAAP requires the company to record the entire anticipated loss on the 
contract in the current period.   

        33.     Further, companies often invest heavily on long-term projects before earning 
significant revenue.  Under the POC accounting standards, a contractor typically records this 
spending as a “work-in-process” (“WIP”) asset on its balance sheet.  Then, as milestones are 
achieved and the contractor earns revenue, the contractor releases WIP to the income statement in 
                                                                  11
proportion to the revenue earned during the current period.            If  a contract becomes unprofitable 

                                                   
8
        See generally ASC 605-35. 

9
        Id. at Paragraph .27. 

10
        For example, assume a company has previously recorded $10,000,000 in operating income using a 10% 
profit margin.  If the company’s accounting models reflect the margin is likely to be only 9%, the company must 
include a negative $1,000,000 offset in current period operating income to adjust for the impact of the lower margin 
on prior periods.    

11
        For example, assume a contractor has a $10,000,000 WIP balance and is estimating a 10% profit margin on 
the contract.  If the contractor achieves a revenue milestone valued at $1,000,000, it records revenue of $1,000,000 
and costs of $900,000 in its income statement, resulting in a remaining WIP balance of $9,100,000.           

                                                         
                                                       9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

                                                                                                        

(due to cost overruns, inability to achieve revenue milestones, etc.), the WIP asset may be rendered 
wholly or partially unrecoverable, triggering a write -down  in the value of the asset.                

B.     CSC’s Fraudulent September 2009 Accounting Model 

       34.    In June 2009, CSC’s UK account team for the NHS contract held a two-day 
meeting to discuss the status of the contract.  Based on revised deployment estimates, Robert 
Sutcliffe, the Finance Director for the NHS account, reported to his colleagues (but not to Laphen 
or Mancuso) that CSC would fall over $1 billion short of the original $5.4 billion revenue target for 
the contract.  He reported further that the account had “no basis” for holding its operating income 
and revenue forecasts, and its accounting model was “non-sustainable.”  Similarly, one of the 
operational leads on the account reported that deployment volumes for that fiscal year were “much 
lower than anticipated,” and that there was “real concern about our ability to complete the 
contract.”        

       35.    In September 2009, Sutcliffe and his team updated the accounting model for the 
NHS contract, using current deployment estimates.  This was CSC’s first updated model since 
executing SARPA.  Whereas pre-SARPA models had forecasted CSC would earn a 16% profit 
margin on the NHS contract, the initial September 2009 calculation showed the contract would 
generate a significant loss.    

       36.    Sutcliffe then led a fraudulent “gap closing” exercise to drive the profit margin back 
to its previous level.  He and personnel working at his direction inserted into the accounting model 
hundreds of millions of dollars of revenue associated with products CSC had stopped developing 
and that the NHS had indicated it no longer intended to purchase.  When these steps failed to fully 
restore the profit margin to 16%, Sutcliffe closed the remaining gap by assuming in the model that 
the NHS would agree to future price increases sufficient to maintain CSC’s profit margin.  This 
was a clear violation of GAAP, as there was no factual support of any kind for the assumed price 
increases.  They were simply an artificial means of restoring the profit margin to the target level.   

       37.    As a result of the fraudulent “gap closing” exercise, CSC continued to record a 16% 
profit margin on the NHS contract when it reported its financial results for Q2FY2010, thereby 
                                                             12
avoiding a material adverse charge to its operating income.     

C.     Laphen’s Statements During CSC’s November 2009 Investors Conference 

                                                 
12
        This fraud also affected CSC’s financial results in subsequent periods.  As discussed below, in Q3FY2010, 
CSC began to base its accounting model on CSC’s proposed contract amendments, which were designed to maintain 
a 16% profit margin.  CSC’s independent auditors endorsed the new accounting model on the belief that it did not 
result in any change in the existing margin.  Had Sutcliffe not engaged in the fraudulent gap closing exercise, neither 
CSC nor its auditors could have employed that rationale to maintain the 16% profit margin. 
 

                                                    
                                                  10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

                                                                                                   

       38.    In early November 2009, the President of CSC International warned Laphen about 
the team’s unsatisfactory progress on an important contract milestone.  Laphen also knew at that 
point about the ongoing milestone dispute with the NHS and the broader contractual risks.  
        
       39.    Two weeks later, however, when CSC held an investor’s conference on November 
18, 2009, Laphen again painted a misleadingly optimistic picture of the NHS contract, telling 
investors, “there was skepticism around our NHS contract and CSC’s ability to succeed where 
other prominent companies had failed.  We went on to accomplish the key development milestones 
last year, and we are on track again this year.”  As with the Q1FY2009 earnings call, Laphen knew 
or should have known these disclosures were misleading because they failed to inform investors 
that CSC was not achieving the milestones set forth in the contract; that it had received numerous 
“event of default” letters from the NHS; that it was engaged in an ongoing dispute with the NHS 
about which milestones applied; that its deployment projections were falling far short of 
expectations; and that additional negotiations with the NHS were required. 
        
D.     CSC’s Improper Change in Accounting Model for the NHS Contract 

       40.    In November 2009, CSC entered into negotiations with the NHS to potentially 
amend SARPA.  CSC offered to reduce the total price the NHS would pay by about 10% in 
exchange for reducing the scope and volume of the products and services CSC was required to 
provide by approximately 30%.  This lopsided proposal was driven by Laphen’s instruction that 
any offers CSC made to the NHS had to preserve CSC’s 16% profit margin.  For this to happen, 
any reductions in deployment volume had to be offset by price increases on the remaining 
volumes.  Put simply, to preserve its profit margin, CSC had to persuade the NHS and the UK 
                                         13
government to agree to pay more for less.     

       41.    The NHS rejected CSC’s offer.  Though it expressed a willingness to engage in 
further discussions over potential contract amendments, the NHS cautioned that CSC “should not 
assume that there is any agreement at this stage to any element of scope or volume reduction….”   
The parties then entered into negotiations that would continue intermittently for the next two years.  
Throughout this period, CSC continued to work on the project and the NHS continued to pay CSC 
for work according to negotiated amended deployment dates.  However, the NHS repeatedly 
advised CSC both orally and in writing that SARPA (which CSC recognized was enforceable) 
remained the operative contract, and that CSC should not assume the parties would ever agree on 
revised terms.  

       42.    Nonetheless, in December 2009, CSC implemented a significant change to its 
accounting model for the NHS contract.  It began to base the model on contract amendments CSC 
had proposed rather than the existing terms of the contract.  In doing so, CSC incorporated in its 

                                                 
13
        CSC’s internal models reflected an assumption that deployment unit prices would roughly double, and 
service unit prices would increase as much as fivefold.       

                                                  
                                                11 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

                                                                                                             

model s significantly   higher prices than what the parties had agreed to in SARPA and were 
currently using.  This resulted in   CSC continu  ing to  recogniz e a 16% profit margin on the contract   
despite ongoing deployment delays      and lower projected deployments.      On multiple occasions    
during the relevant period, Laphen and Mancuso received information indicating that CSC’s use of 
the new accounting model was allowing the company to achieve materially better financial results 
in comparison to the previous, SARPA-based model 

        43.     The accounting standards provide expressly that a contractor may not recognize 
                                                                         14
profit based on unapproved changes to a contract’s price and scope.          Laphen   knew or should have 
known    that CSC’s shift to an accounting model based on its offering terms (rather than SARPA) 
violated GAAP.  As a result of the improper accounting models used on the NHS contract, CSC 
materially overstated its financial results during the period Q3FY2010 to Q2FY2012.   

        44.     In violation of various disclosure rules, CSC, Laphen, and Mancuso failed to inform 
investors that CSC was basing its accounting models on its proposed contract amendments, rather 
than the terms of the enforceable contract, and that without the contract amendments, CSC’s 
                                             15
operating income would fall significantly.        This risk was heightened  by the need for various 
levels of the UK government to approve the contract amendments CSC was seeking.              Laphen, who 
characterized the NHS contract as a    “political football,” understood that the political environment 
in the UK posed an additional obstacle to securing the contract amendments CSC was seeking.  In 
May 2010, a conservative party that had been highly critical of the NHS’s IT program was elected.  
A month before the election, Laphen wrote to CSC’s Board of Directors that the NHS “is under 
tremendous political pressure as the [Conservative] party highlights the program....  We run a risk 
that the upcoming election … and a potential change in government could complicate [the 
negotiations].”  

E.      CSC’s Improper Accounting and Disclosures in Q3FY2011 

        45.     After fifteen months of intermittent negotiations — during which the NHS 
consistently refused to agree to terms that would allow CSC to maintain its 16% profit margin — 
Laphen finally ended his insistence that all offers to the NHS maintain that level of profitability.  

                                                 
14
        For accounting purposes, CSC treated its proposals as “change orders.”  However, the accounting standards 
provide that “[i]f change orders are in dispute or are unapproved in regard to both scope and price, they should be 
evaluated as claims.”  See SOP 81-1 at Paragraph .63 (emphasis added).  CSC’s proposals were unapproved as to 
both scope and price, and therefore should have been evaluated as “claims.”  CSC never evaluated its proposals as 
such.  Those proposals could not have met the strict requirements of “claim” accounting (see SOP 81-1, at 
Paragraphs .65-.67).  Further, even if CSC’s proposals had met those requirements, the accounting standards 
prohibit a contractor from recording any profit on a claim.  See SOP 81-1 at Paragraph .65 (“If the foregoing 
requirements [for claim accounting] are met, revenue from a claim should be recorded only to the extent that 
contract costs relating to the claim have been incurred [i.e., no profit].”).  Indeed, as stated in CSC’s own POC 
accounting training materials, it is “never appropriate to recognize [profit] margin on a claim.” 

15
        These disclosures were mandated by Regulation S-K Items 301, 303(a), and 303(b); ASC 275; and SOP 
81-1, Paragraph .84. 

                                                       
                                                    12 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

                                                                                                      

On February 7   or 8 , 2011,  Laphen  approved a new   offer to the NHS   which  would have resulted in 
CSC earn ing  only a 12.7% profit margin.  CSC submitted this propos  al to the NHS o  n February 9, 
2011.    

       46.    Later that day, CSC filed its Form 10-Q for Q3FY2011.  As discussed above, 
CSC’s use of the proposed contract amendments as the basis for its accounting models violated 
GAAP.  Had CSC continued to follow its improper approach of basing its accounting models on 
the most recent offer it had made to the NHS, the company would have recorded a $52 million 
                                                        16
negative adjustment to operating income in Q3FY2011.          

       47.    But CSC did not do so.  Rather than preparing a new accounting model at that time 
reflecting its most recent offer (that, if accepted, would have resulted in a 12.7% profit), CSC 
instead prepared its financial statements for Q3FY2011 using the prior accounting model that had 
forecasted CSC would continue to earn a 16% profit.   

       48.    CSC failed to inform investors that it was basing its accounting models on offering 
terms rather than the enforceable contract.  CSC further failed to inform investors that it was basing 
its financial statements on an offer that had not only been rejected by the NHS, but that had been 
superseded by a revised offer that would generate a significantly lower profit margin to the 
company and would require a large inception-to-date adjustment that would reduce CSC’s 
earnings. 

       49.    In addition to its improper accounting and its failure to make required disclosures, 
CSC affirmatively misled investors about the contract.  CSC stated in its Form 10-Q for 
Q3FY2011 that “[t]otal contract value, based on proposals submitted to the NHS, is currently 
estimated to be reduced between $800 and $950 million.”  In fact, the revised offer CSC had 
submitted to the NHS proposed an approximately $1.2 billion reduction in total contract value.  

       50.    CSC also held its Q3FY2011 earnings call on February 9, 2011.  During the 
question-and-answer portion of the call, an analyst asked Laphen whether “there will be some kind 
of a write-down or some kind of cost and hit to the P&L” in connection with the contract 
amendments CSC was seeking.   In his answer, Laphen stated (among other things), “I can’t tell 
you there is no chance for some sort of a P&L hit.  We don’t have that at this point in time.” 
(emphasis added).  In fact, CSC’s new offer reflected the company expected a significant “P&L 
hit” at that point in time.     

       51.    On the same day that CSC made its revised proposal to the NHS and filed its Form 
10-Q, Laphen signed a management representation letter to CSC’s independent auditors.  Among 
other things, the representations falsely stated, “[c]ontract estimates have been prepared on the 
basis of the most current and best available information and the underlying assumptions used in 
those estimates are reflective of our intentions,” and “the Company’s [accounting model] on  the 
                                                 
16
       As noted above, GAAP requires companies to reflect the impact of a decrease in the profit margin on a 
contract such as this by recording an inception-to-date adjustment. 

                                                   
                                                 13 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

                                                                                                   

NHS contract used to prepare the third quarter 2011 financial statements represents the best 
estimate of the probable contract value, costs at completion, margin and margin rate based upon all 
known facts and contractual risks.”   

       52.    Laphen knew or should have known that CSC’s financial statements in Q3FY2011 
were based on the wrong accounting model, and that his disclosures regarding the NHS contract to 
investors and to CSC’s independent auditors were false.  Laphen knew the offer he authorized on 
February 7 or 8, 2011 would result in a lower profit margin for CSC than the company had been 
maintaining.  Laphen also knew or should have known that CSC’s updated offer to the NHS would 
negatively impact the company’s earnings.  

F.     CSC’s Continued Improper Accounting From Q4FY2011 Through Q2FY2012 

       53.    One day after CSC made its revised offer on February 9, 2011, the NHS rejected 
CSC’s proposal and made a counteroffer that would have resulted in CSC earning a negative profit 
margin.  The parties then engaged in several additional months of negotiation.   

       54.    On May 2, 2011, CSC issued a press release in which it announced that it expected 
to sign a non-binding Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) with the NHS “in the next few 
                                                                        17
weeks pending final NHS and other government reviews and approvals.”   It was only then that 
CSC updated its accounting model to reflect the current status of the negotiations.   

       55.    The NHS could not amend SARPA without the approval of the UK government.  
Though NHS personnel indicated at that time that they supported the contract amendments 
envisioned in the draft non-binding MOU, they gave CSC no assurance that the required approvals 
would be forthcoming.  Indeed, by the time CSC filed its FY2011 Form 10-K on June 15, 2011, 
there had been significant developments that made the UK government’s required approval of the 
proposed amendments unlikely.   

       56.    In May 2010, the Conservative party, which had been highly critical of the NHS’s 
IT program, won the UK general election.  By May 2011, the UK National Audit Office (“NAO”), 
the House of Commons Public Accounts Committee (“PAC”), and the Major Projects Authority 
(“MPA”) had all begun reviews of the program.   On May 11, 2011, while taking questions in the 
House of Commons, UK Prime Minister David Cameron reported, “We are very concerned that 
the NHS IT projects that we inherited were of poor value for money, an issue we raised repeatedly 
in opposition.”  With regard to CSC’s contract, the Prime Minister said, “we are absolutely 
determined to achieve better value for money….  [T]here are no plans to sign any new contract 
with Computer Sciences Corporation until the [NAO] report has been reviewed, and until the 
[PAC] meetings and [MPA] reviews have taken place.”  The Prime Minister further stated, “The 
Department of Health and Cabinet Office will examine all available options under the current 
contract, including the option of terminating some of, or indeed all of, the contract.”    
                                                 
17
        The uncertainty about the contract amendments was underscored by the NHS’s unwillingness to sign even 
a non-binding MOU with CSC.  This was in contrast to the binding MOU the NHS signed in 2008. 

                                                  
                                                14 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

                                                                                                   

       57.    One week later, the NAO issued a report finding “the [$4.3] billion spent on care 
records systems so far does not represent value for money, and we do not find grounds for 
confidence that the remaining planned spend of [$6.9] billion will be different.”  The report was 
critical of the performance of CSC and other IT contractors involved in the project.        

       58.    On May 23, 2011, the PAC held a public hearing concerning (among other things) 
the proposed contract amendments.  Consistent with the Prime Minister’s comments, NHS 
representatives stated that “all options” were under consideration, including termination of CSC’s 
contract.   

       59.    Two days later, the Financial Times published an article reporting the findings of a 
leaked UK Cabinet Office memorandum.  As quoted in the article, the Cabinet Office 
memorandum “condemned” the proposed contract amendments as “unattractive,” in that the 
proposed savings to the NHS were disproportionately small in comparison to the proposed 
reductions in product scope and volume to be delivered by CSC.  As further quoted in the article, 
when asked to comment on the leaked memorandum, the PAC Chair stated, “It would be 
unspeakably unacceptable to think that in return for a one-third reduction in the cost, CSC would 
do two-thirds less work.  If this is an opening gambit from the company, it should be given short 
                                                                            18
shrift.  There is no way these guys ought to be working for the government.”    

       60.    Indeed, when CSC provided the NHS a proposed disclosure it intended to make in 
its FY2011 Form 10-K that described the MOU as “substantially agreed,” the NHS refused to 
agree to that characterization.  The NHS representative advised CSC’s General Counsel, “The 
MOU remains unsigned and, at present, unagreed and in draft.  As you know, I’m afraid that there 
is no guarantee that it will be signed in its current draft format or at all….   I cannot accept/agree if 
asked that the draft MOU is substantially agreed.”             

       61.    As a consequence of these developments, CSC and Laphen knew or should have 
known that approval of its proposed contract amendments by the UK government was not 
probable.  Nevertheless, when CSC filed its FY2011 Form 10-K on June 15, 2011, it continued to 
base its accounting model on the assumption that the UK government would approve the contract 
amendments and failed to write down the value of its contract-related assets as required.  
Moreover, notwithstanding the NHS’s refusal to agree that the non-binding MOU was 
“substantially agreed,” CSC provided CSC’s independent auditors a June 14, 2011 letter stating 
(among other things) that “the parties had reached substantial agreement on the terms of the 
MOU.” 

       62.    On August 3, 2011, the PAC released a report with findings critical of CSC’s 
performance.  The Committee recommended that the UK government consider whether to continue 

                                                 
18
       The Financial Times article was circulated among CSC executives (including Laphen) on the date of its 
publication. 

                                                  
                                                15 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

                                                                                                  

the IT program. The Committee also advised the government should    “give[] serious consideration 
to whether CSC has proved itself fit to tender for other Government work.” 

       63.    Eight days later, CSC filed its Form 10-Q for Q1FY2012.  In violation of GAAP, 
CSC continued to base its accounting model on the proposed MOU and to carry its contract-related 
assets at their full value (approximately $1.4 billion).   

       64.    On September 6, 2011, Laphen discussed the status of the MOU proposal with the 
account team.  The account team provided Laphen with an assessment of NHS’s options and listed 
seven possible options: “Do Nothing, Enforce SARPA, Negotiate TARPA, Whole Termination, 
Partial Termination, Negotiate Whole Exit, or Negotiate Partial Exit.”  They informed him that the 
MOU proposal was “probably best for the parties but politically not tenable.”  On September 7, 
2011, NHS agreed to engage in further negotiations.  On September 22, 2011, however, the MPA 
issued a report recommending several options, one of which included that the NHS’s IT program 
should be “dismembered” and “reconstituted” under new management and organizational 
structures.      

       65.    On November 4, 2011, the NHS provided CSC written comments on a draft 
earnings call script for Q2FY2012.  Those comments included the following:  “[CSC] make[s] a 
number of revenue and profit estimations based on your view of how the contract will operate if 
the draft, without prejudice MOU were to be signed.  Whilst this is a matter for CSC, in view of 
your obvious historic and on-going stated doubt as to whether the draft, without prejudice MOU 
would be signed and our recent discussions on the subject, we question whether financial 
projections on that basis are appropriate.”  

       66.    On the morning of November 9, 2011, NHS provided CSC with further written 
comments on the proposed statement.  Those comments included the following:  “[W]e have a 
concern that the tone of the proposed Q2 comments gives a misleadingly upbeat impression of a 
project that is many years behind both its original schedule and the current contracted 
schedule.  We are of the opinion that the comments could give the impression that the project is 
‘on track’ with its delivery (which is clearly not the case).  They could also give the optimistic 
impression that the outcome of the discussions we are about to enter will be the acceptance of 
CSC’s ‘economic proposals.’  Again, it is for CSC to conclude how it must brief its shareholders 
on the possible or likely outcomes of the project and our discussion, but it would be remiss of us 
not to draw our concern to your attention, once more.   Whilst we adopt our usual stance of not 
commenting on CSC’s affairs or disclosure, if asked, we will have to explain our (contrary) view 
of the current state of affairs.” 

       67.    Nevertheless, when CSC filed its Form 10-Q for Q2FY2012, the company 
continued to base its accounting model on the MOU proposal, and still failed to write-down the 
value of its contract-related assets in violation of GAAP. 

       68.    On December 21, 2011, the NHS sent CSC a letter stating, “As you know, 
consistent with previous concerns expressed by the PAC and the MPA, we have clearly rejected 

                                                 
                                               16 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

                                                                                                            

the MoU on the grounds that it does not represent value for mone      y.”  The NHS further informed 
                                                                         19
CSC that recent proposals under discussion were also unacceptable.          On December 27, 2011     , the 
company   filed a Form 8 - K announcing that neither the MOU proposal nor recent proposed 
amendments under discussion with the NHS woul        d be approved.  CSC reported that, consequently, 
the company   “will be required to recognize a material impairment of its net investment in the 
contract in the third quarter of fiscal year 2012.”  On the day of the announcement, CSC’s common 
stock declined by 9%.  On February 8, 2012, CSC filed its Form 10-Q for Q3FY2012.  For this 
filing, CSC finally ceased basing its accounting models on its proposed contract amendments, and 
returned to using the enforceable contract as the basis for its models.  CSC also wrote down 
approximately $1.5 billion in NHS contract assets from its balance sheet.   

                 Additional Disclosure Violations Relating to the NHS Contract 

        69.     In addition to the misconduct described above, Mancuso also made misleading 
statements to investors about the degree to which CSC had grown dependent on refundable cash 
advances from the NHS to drive its fourth quarter and annual free cash flow results and failed to 
make required disclosures about these advances.   

A.     The Cash Advance Arrangement 
         
        70.     At the close of each fiscal year, CSC received cash advances from the NHS based 
on an estimate of anticipated charges in the next fiscal year.  The sizes of these advances, which 
were negotiated in the closing days of each fiscal year, were based on the total charges CSC 
expected to bill under the contract in the following year.  The NHS had a contractual right to 
suspend the advances if CSC committed an event of default.  Thus, amid ongoing project delays 
and an unresolved contractual dispute, the arrangement became increasingly uncertain.   

        71.     The cash advance arrangement between the NHS and CSC operated like a secured 
                                                                       20
loan.  CSC effectively paid the NHS 5% interest for the advances.          CSC secured the advances by 
providing  the  NHS bank  - issued standby letters of credit.  CSC repaid the advances at the end of 
each year to the extent they had not been fully offset by CSC    ’s actual charges (“the true-up”).  
Unlike traditional loans, though, which companies record as cash flows from financing activities, 
GAAP allowed CSC to record these advances as cash flows from operating activities.  This 

                                                 
19
        During the period December 8 to 19, 2011, CSC made further proposals to the NHS that, had they been 
accepted, would have limited CSC’s write-down to approximately $700 million. 
 
20
        At the NHS’s option, CSC could either provide the NHS a service credit valued at 5% of the advance 
payment or an equivalent cash payment at the end of the contract.  The NHS told CSC it did not intend to use any of 
the service credits, favoring the cash payment. 
 

                                                      
                                                    17 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

                                                                                                          

provid ed  a significant boost to the company ’s fourth quarter and annual free cash flow results — a 
                                        21
metric that was important to investors.       

        72.     The cash advance arrangement resulted in an economic loss to CSC.  In addition to 
paying the 5% charge to the NHS, CSC had to pay an additional 1 to 1.25% charge to banks for the 
standby letters of credit.  In October 2010, CSC’s Treasurer recommended to Mancuso and CSC’s 
Vice President International Finance that CSC “should [not] push the cash advances higher but 
rather attempt to lower them” because the arrangement “results in an economic loss to CSC.”  
CSC’s Vice-President International Finance replied, “You’re right – it is an expensive drug we’re 
on!”  Subsequently, however, Mancuso instructed that CSC should continue seeking the cash 
advances.        

        73.     The cash advances grew increasingly large over time, peaking in CSC’s fiscal year 
2010, when the Company received a $580 million advance from NHS in the closing days of the 
fiscal year.  The portions of the cash advances that CSC had to return to the NHS also grew larger 
over time as CSC continued to fall short of its deployment goals.  CSC repaid approximately 22%, 
72%, and 93% of its cash advances for fiscal years 2010, 2011, and 2012, respectively.  In other 
words, CSC paid over 6% on hundreds of millions of dollars that it later returned to the NHS at a 
time when the company could have borrowed from traditional lenders for considerably less.  

        74.     Although CSC lost money from the cash advance arrangement, it was a boon to 
senior executive compensation in fiscal year 2010.  That fiscal year, CSC replaced another metric 
with free cash flow as one of four key performance measures in its Annual Management Incentive 
Plan.  CSC’s free cash flow results exceeded the fiscal year 2010 plan target, resulting in 
                                                       22
significant payouts to Laphen, Mancuso, and others.         Absent the $5 8 0  million NHS cash advance, 
CSC  ’s free cash flow results would have fallen hundreds of millions of dollars short of the bonus 
plan target, resulting in no payout to the executives. 

        75.     SEC disclosure rules required CSC to disclose the impacts of this unusual cash 
                                                            23
advance arrangement on the company’s financial results.         However , neither Laphen nor Mancuso 
took any steps to ensure disclosure , and investors were kept in the dark about how CSC met its 
cash flow targets.   

        76.     Indeed, when the highest rated sell-side securities analyst covering CSC repeatedly 
asked CSC executives about how the NHS contract was impacting the company’s results, and 
expressed skepticism about the reliability of CSC’s reported free cash flow, Laphen and Mancuso 

                                                 
21
        Financing cash flows were not a component of CSC’s free cash flow; operating cash flows were. 
 
22
        Laphen received a $630,000 bonus award for exceeding the FY2010 free cash flow target.  Mancuso 
received   a $175,500 award.       

23
        Regulation S-K Item 303(a) mandated these disclosures. 

                                                     
                                                   18 
---------------------Page 19---------------------

                                                                                                 

directed the company’s head of Investor Relations not to allow that analyst to ask any questions 
during CSC’s earnings call question-and-answer period.   

       77.    Moreover, on two occasions, Mancuso made public statements about the NHS 
advances that he knew or should have known were false and misleading.        

B.     Mancuso’s Statements During CSC’s Q4FY2009 Earnings Call 
 
       78.    On the last day of CSC’s FY2009, CSC negotiated a cash advance from the NHS of 
approximately $135 million.  Mancuso knew about this advance:  he wrote a “thank you” letter to a 
regional executive who helped to secure the advance, specifically noting his significant 
contribution to CSC’s year-end “Cash Project.”  This advance comprised over 15% of the 
company’s fourth quarter free cash flow.   

       79.    However, when a financial analyst asked Mancuso during CSC’s fourth quarter and 
fiscal year-end 2009 earnings call in May 2009 whether CSC had received “any large 
prepayments” from NHS or other clients during the fourth quarter of FY2009, Mancuso replied 
that the company had not. 

C.     Mancuso’s Statements During CSC’s Q4 FY2010 Earnings Call 
 
       80.    At the end of FY2010, CSC worked hard to negotiate a large cash advance from the 
NHS.  Because CSC had missed a key deployment deadline in March 2010, the NHS’s willingness 
to give CSC a large cash advance was in doubt.  Public reports of the missed deadline led to 
speculation that CSC would fall short of its cash flow guidance.   

       81.    Mancuso understood this was important to investors.  On March 27, 2010, Mancuso 
wrote to Laphen that CSC was “getting an endless string of questions from buyside and sellside 
analysts reacting to the british press clips [reporting on the missed NHS milestone].”  Mancuso told 
Laphen he was “having a continuing dialogue with [CSC’s Vice-President International Finance] 
keeping me abreast by the hour” regarding negotiations with NHS over the cash advance.  
Mancuso advised Laphen that the “cash is key to us being able to spin this story.”   

       82.    On the morning of April 1, 2010, Mancuso informed Laphen that CSC had received 
a $580 million cash advance from the NHS.  Hours later, CSC reaffirmed its fiscal year-end cash 
flow guidance.  That afternoon, Mancuso sent his subordinates an email in which he referred to 
CSC having “dodged a bullet.”  Shortly afterwards, CSC’s Vice President International Finance 
told the NHS account team that CSC would not have been able to reaffirm its guidance “without 
the NHS cash and [other] work on the Q4 items….”   He closed by noting, “Mike Mancuso 
specifically asked me to pass on this thanks to the team.”  

       83.    On May 20, 2010, during CSC’s fourth quarter earnings call, Mancuso boasted to 
investors about the company’s cash flow results, claiming “Cash is the big story.”  Mancuso 
specifically highlighted CSC’s fourth quarter free cash flow of $951 million.  During the earnings 

                                                 
                                               19 
---------------------Page 20---------------------

                                                                                                     

call question  -and -answer period, an analyst asked Mancuso to “help us understand how you hit that 
free cash flow number” assuming CSC “didn’t hit” its NHS milestone and “didn’t get a cash flow 
payment” from NHS.  Mancuso did not disclose to the analyst that approximately 62% of CSC’s 
fourth quarter free cash flow was attributable to the $580 million cash advance received from NHS 
at the close of the fiscal year, for which the company was paying over 6%, and which the company 
would need to repay to the NHS if it were not able to begin meeting its deployment goals.  Instead, 
Mancuso replied that CSC had generated its free cash flow results “the old-fashioned hard way, 
frankly,” attributing it to earnings, improvements in working capital, and “receivables.”  He further 
described the result as “a glowing achievement” and “not unnatural.”      

       84.    In addition to the accounting and disclosure fraud involving the NHS contract, two 
of CSC’s international businesses engaged in accounting frauds as well.  CSC’s Australia 
subsidiary and its Nordic region violated fundamental GAAP principles in a variety of ways to 
manipulate their financial results.   
 
                             CSC’s Accounting Fraud in Australia 
 
       85.    CSC Australia’s two most senior finance executives, the subsidiary’s CFO Wayne 
Banks and Controller Edward Parker, manipulated the company’s Q1FY2009 earnings through 
excess accruals they maintained in “cookie jar” reserves and by failing to record expenses as 
required.  This fraud materially overstated CSC’s consolidated pretax income by over 5%.  
Banks’s fraud resulted in at least a 4.3% overstatement in Q1FY2009.  Parker’s fraud encompassed 
all of Banks’s fraud and went further, resulting in an overstatement of CSC’s consolidated pretax 
income by 5.4% for that period.  But for their misconduct, CSC would have missed analysts’ 
earnings targets in Q1FY2009. 
 
A.     CSC Australia’s “Cookie Jar” Reserves 
 
       86.    To offset future shortfalls in budgeted operating performance, Banks and Parker 
maintained excess, unsupportable balances in reserve accounts.  Banks and Parker built up these 
reserve balances primarily during CSC Australia’s successful FY 2008.  For example, at the close 
of FY2008, Banks and Parker intentionally over-accrued for “gift cards” CSC Australia was giving 
its employees in recognition of their efforts in meeting annual budget targets.  Parker informed 
Banks, “while it’s likely we’ll pay [AUD] $150 per employee, we have booked an accrual 
equivalent to [AUD] $350 per employee, largely as a mechanism to carry forward a provision into 
FY09.”  This resulted in an excess reserve balance of approximately AUD $1 million, which 
Banks and Parker subsequently released to boost CSC Australia’s Q1FY2009 earnings when it 
                                                   24
appeared the subsidiary was falling short of targets.    

                                                   
24
       GAAP prohibits companies from maintaining excess accruals or “general reserves.”  Under the applicable 
accounting standards, a loss contingency should be recorded only if the loss is probable and reasonably estimable.  
See ASC 450-20-25-2.   
 

                                                   
                                                 20 
---------------------Page 21---------------------

                                                                                                            

 
        87.     As with the gift cards account, Banks and Parker fraudulently built up 
approximately AUD $2.25 million in excess reserve balances in FY2008 in accounts related to 
employee bonuses and a restructuring.  In violation of GAAP, they accrued AUD $590,000 for 
bonuses when CSC Australia had no obligation or intention to pay the bonuses and AUD $1.65 
million for restructuring costs despite not having a formal management restructuring plan and not 
                                          25
having notified the affected employees.        Banks and Parker released most of the     bonus and 
restructuring accruals  in Q1FY2009    , which boost  ed  the subsidiary’s earnings. 
         
        88.     Banks and Parker also created excess accruals in CSC Australia’s labor accounts in 
each quarter in FY2008.  CSC Australia estimated labor costs each month and accrued for those 
expected costs.  Though they knew CSC Australia’s actual labor costs were significantly lower 
than the subsidiary had estimated, Banks and Parker maintained those excess amounts in the labor 
account for future use.  Banks and Parker created additional excess accruals in CSC Australia’s 
labor accounts by reserving for fictitious training costs.  These improper labor accruals totaled 
AUD $5.4 million by year-end FY2008.  Banks and Parker released AUD $3.5 million of these 
accruals — and Parker released the remaining AUD $1.9 million in Q1FY2009 to improve CSC 
Australia’s reported results. 
         
B.      CSC Australia’s Failure to Record Expenses as Required 
         
        89.     Banks and Parker further misstated CSC’s Q1FY2009 earnings by failing to record 
costs as required.  GAAP permitted CSC Australia to capitalize “contract acquisition costs” – i.e. 
                                                                   26
expenses the company incurred in attempting to win business.           However, if CSC Australia were 
                                                                                                      27
unable to win this business, GAAP required the company to expense these costs           in that period .   In 
Q1FY  20 09, Banks and Parker knew CSC Australia had failed to win a contract with a potential 
customer on a project that had AUD $1.5 million in contract acquisition costs.  Nevertheless, CSC 
Australia did not expense the AUD $1.5 million as GAAP re        quired.  

                          CSC’s Accounting Fraud in the Nordic Region 

        90.     During FY2010, finance personnel in CSC’s Nordics region fraudulently overstated 
the region’s operating results.  Former Nordics Finance Director Paul Wakefield, and Nordics 
Finance Managers Chris Edwards and Claus Zilmer improperly accounted for client disputes; 
overstated assets; and failed to record expenses as required.  This fraud overstated CSC’s 

                                                 
25
        GAAP requires management to commit to a plan of termination in order to record a termination reserve.  
See ASC 420-10-25-4. 
 
26
        See ASC 605-20-25-4 and ASC 310-20-35-2; see also SAB Topic 13.A.3(f). 
 
27
        Id. 
 

                                                      
                                                    21 
---------------------Page 22---------------------

                                                                                                                

consolidated   operating income by    5% in Q1FY2010, 3% in Q2FY2010,            4% in Q3FY2010, and 7% 
in Q4FY2010  . 
         
A.      CSC’s Improper Accounting for Client Disputes 
         
        91.     By improperly accounting for a settlement with a Danish client, CSC overstated its 
operating income by $9 million in Q4FY2010.  The client had agreed to forgo legal action against 
CSC if the company gave it $165,000 in cash and $9 million in service credits.  In February 2010, 
the Director of CSC Nordics’ Denmark Public Sector and the client signed three agreements:  a 
settlement agreement reflecting the cash payment and two side agreements reflecting the much 
larger service credits.   
 
                                                                                                             28
        92.     GAAP required CSC to record the entire $9,165,000 as an expense in Q4FY2010.                     
However, CSC did not do so because the Director concealed the connection between the three 
agreements.  The Director told local in    - house counsel that the    settlement agreement and two side 
agreements were unrelated.  When an early version of the settlement agreement referenced the 
price credits, he directed the attorney to remove that reference.  As a consequence of this 
misrepresentation, CSC expensed only         the $165,000 portion of the settlement, thereby overstating 
its operating income by $9 million.      
         
        93.      CSC also overstated its unbilled receivables in Q3FY2010 and Q4FY2010 in 
connection with another client dispute.  In June 2009, a client terminated CSC Nordics’ work on a 
project that CSC had forecast would generate $900,000 in revenue.  CSC Nordics asserted that the 
client was liable for the $900,000.  Though the client had not agreed to pay this amount, Zilmer 
recorded $900,000 as an unbilled receivable relating to this claim in November 2009.  This 
violated GAAP requirements for gain contingencies and improperly increased CSC’s operating 
                                        29
income by $900,000 in Q3FY2010.           
         
        94.      In Q4FY2010, CSC Nordics agreed to accept only $90,000 from the client to 
resolve this claim.  Zilmer, who was responsible for the accounting for this transaction, received a 
copy of the settlement agreement during that period.  However, Zilmer waited to write-off the 
$810,000 in uncollectable revenue until after CSC had closed its books for FY2010, thereby 
overstating the company’s results. 
         
B.      CSC Nordics Manipulates its Earnings by Overstating the Value of an Asset 
         

                                                 
28
        GAAP provides that a loss contingency is recorded if the loss is probable and reasonably estimable.  Both 
of these conditions were clearly met with the signed side agreements.  See ASC 450-20-25-2. 
 
29
        GAAP   generally prohibits recording gain contingencies in financial statements.  See ASC 450-30-25-1 
 

                                                        
                                                      22 
---------------------Page 23---------------------

                                                                                                          

        95.     In Q3FY2010, CSC overstated its income by over $4 million by failing to write-
down the value of an asset as required by GAAP.  In October 2009, CSC Nordics contracted with a 
vendor to exchange one of the company’s mainframe computers.  At that time, CSC Nordics 
valued the old mainframe at its net book value (cost minus accumulated depreciation) of $5.2 
million though its fair market value was only a fraction of that amount.  When CSC Nordics 
disposed of this mainframe in the exchange transaction, GAAP required the company to record a 
                          30
$4.5 million write-down.       
 
        96.     To avoid this result, CSC Nordics and the vendor entered into a sham arrangement 
that instead resulted in a gain from the transaction.  Rather than issue an invoice to CSC Nordics 
for the true value of the new mainframe, the vendor significantly over-charged CSC Nordics, then 
gave the company a credit note for the difference.  CSC Nordics personnel then used the credit 
note (which was for $5.6 million) to offset the $5.2 million write-down of the old mainframe.  This 
resulted in the company improperly recording a $400,000 gain from the deal, rather than a $4.5 
million loss as required by GAAP.   
         
C.     The Improper Capitalization of Expenses 
         
        97.     Throughout FY2010, CSC Nordics improperly overstated its income by failing to 
record expenses associated with certain labor costs.  These costs involved compensation the 
company paid to employees who were not working on any company projects (“bench labor”).  
Consistent with GAAP, CSC Nordics originally expensed the compensation it paid to these 
employees.  To improve its operating results, however, CSC Nordics later reversed these expenses.  
                                                                                                       31
With Wakefield’s approval, Zilmer improperly capitalized bench labor costs totaling $8.2 million,         
significantly reducing CSC Nordics’ FY2010 expenses and artificially improving CSC’s operating 
income.   
 
        98.     In addition, Wakefield, Zilmer, and Edwards improperly capitalized various other 
                                           32
expenses using “prepaid” asset accounts.      For example, Wakefield manipulated CSC Nordics’ 
results in Q3FY2010 by directing that $1.4 million in office moving and capitalized server costs, 
which GAAP required the company to expense, be moved to a prepaid asset account to be 
                     33
amortized over time.     In Q4FY2010, Zilmer improperly overstated CSC Nordics’ income simply 
                                                 
30
        GAAP provides that the cost of a nonmonetary asset acquired in exchange for another nonmonetary asset is 
the fair value of the asset surrendered to obtain it.  See ASC 845-10-30-1. 
 
31
        In violation of GAAP, Zilmer did this by improperly recording bench labor costs as “transition and 
transformation costs.”  Under CSC policy, legitimate transition and transformation costs were capitalizable.   
 
32
        By the end of FY2010, CSC Nordics had over $30 million in prepaid assets that were unsupported.   
 
33
        GAAP prohibits recording current period expenses as prepaid expenses.  See ASC 340-10-5-4, “Other 
Assets and Deferred Costs” (defining prepaid expenses as a category of assets that are paid in advance of their use or 
consumption and providing that prepaid expenses should be deferred and expensed over time in the period in which 
they are utilized).   
 
                                                     
                                                   23 
---------------------Page 24---------------------

                                                                                                      

by reversing a journal entry that had properly expensed $1.4 million in contract costs, and re-
recording these costs as prepaid assets on the company’s balance sheet.  Edwards also improperly 
recorded current period costs in prepaid accounts, and mislabeled journal entries to make it appear 
                                                                                          34
as though those costs were prepaid assets that CSC could amortize over multiple periods.     
        
            Laphen’s and Mancuso’s Bonuses and Incentive-Based Compensation 
        
       99.    The misconduct described above resulted in material misstatements to CSC’s 
financial statements in FY2010, FY2011, and FY2012.  CSC was required to restate its financial 
statements in those periods.  During the 12-month periods that followed the filing of these periodic 
reports, Laphen and Mancuso received bonuses and incentive-based compensation.  Neither 
Laphen nor Mancuso has reimbursed those amounts to CSC. 
 
                                          VIOLATIONS 

       100.   Securities Act Section 17(a)(1), Exchange Act Section 10(b) and Rule 10b-5 
thereunder prohibit fraudulent conduct in the offer or sale of securities and in connection with the 
purchase or sale of securities. 
 
       101.   Securities Act Section 17(a)(2) prohibits any person from obtaining money or 
property in the offer or sale of securities by means of any untrue statement of a material fact or any 
omission to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in light of the 
circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. 
        
       102.   Securities Act Section 17(a)(3) prohibits any person from engaging in any 
transaction, practice, or course of business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit 
upon the purchaser in the offer or sale of securities. 
        
       103.   Exchange Act Section 13(a) and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder require that 
every issuer of a security registered pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12 file with the 
Commission, among other things, annual and quarterly reports as the Commission may require, 
and, pursuant to Rule 13a-14, mandate, among other things, that an issuer’s principal executive 
and principal financial officers certify each periodic report. 
        
       104.   Rule 12b-20 under the Exchange Act requires that, in addition to the information 
expressly required to be included in a statement or report filed with the Commission, there shall be 
added such further material information, if any, as may be necessary to make the required 
statements, in light of the circumstances under which they are made not misleading. 
        

                                                                                                                                                             
 
34
       Id. 
 

                                                   
                                                 24 
---------------------Page 25---------------------

                                                                                                         

        105.   Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(A) requires reporting companies to make and 
keep books, records and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their 
transactions and dispositions of their assets. 
         
        106.   Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(B) requires all reporting companies to devise and 
maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance 
with GAAP. 
         
        107.   Exchange Act Section 13(b)(5) prohibits any person from knowingly circumventing 
or knowingly failing to implement a system of  internal accounting controls or knowingly 
falsifying any book, record, or account described in Section 13(b)(2). 
 
        108.   Rule 13b2-1 under the Exchange Act prohibits any person from, directly or 
indirectly, falsifying or causing to be falsified, any book, record, or account subject to Exchange 
Act Section 13(b)(2)(A). 
         
        109.   Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires the chief executive officer 
and chief financial officer of an issuer that is required to prepare an accounting restatement due to 
its material noncompliance, as a result of misconduct, with any financial reporting requirement 
under the securities laws to reimburse the issuer for any bonus or other incentive-based or equity-
based compensation the chief executive officer or chief financial officer received during the 12-
month period following the first public issuance or filing of the financial document embodying 
such financial reporting requirement, and any profits realized from the sale of the issuer’s securities 
during that 12-month period. 
         
        110.   As a result of the conduct described above, CSC violated Securities Act Section 
17(a) and Exchange Act Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) and Rules 10b-5, 12b-
20, 13a-1, and 13a-13. 
 
                                                                               35
        111.   As a result of the conduct described above, Laphen willfully       violated Securities 
Act Sections 17(a)(2) and (a)(3) ,  Exchange Act  Rule  s  13a - 14  and 13b2- 1 , and   Sarbanes- Oxley Act 
Section 304 , and caused CSC’s violations of Exchange Act Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 
13(b)(2)(B) and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder. 
 
        112.   As a result of the conduct described above, Mancuso violated Securities Act 
Sections 17(a)(2) and (a)(3) and Exchange Act Rule 13a-14, and Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 304, 

                                                 
35
        This use of the word “willfully” does not reflect a finding that Laphen acted with the intention to violate the 
law or knowledge that he was doing so.  As used in the governing provisions of law, “willfully” means only that the 
actor “intentionally committed the act which constitutes the violation.”  Tager v. SEC, 344 F.2d 5, 8 (2d Cir. 1965); 
see also Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000).  “There is no requirement that the actor also be 
aware that he is violating one of the Rules or Acts . . . .”  Tager, 344 F.2d at 8. 

                                                     
                                                   25 
---------------------Page 26---------------------

                                                                                                 

and caused CSC’s violations of Exchange Act Section 13(a) and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 
thereunder. 
 
       113.   As a result of the conduct described above, Banks willfully violated Securities Act 
Section 17(a), Exchange Act Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5), and Rules 10b-5(a) and (c) and 13b2-1 
thereunder, and willfully aided and abetted and caused CSC’s violations of Securities Act Section 
17(a), Exchange Act Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) and Rules 10b-5, 13a-1, 
and 13a-13 thereunder. 
        
       114.   As a result of the conduct described above, Zilmer violated Exchange Act Rule 
13b2-1 and caused CSC’s violations of Exchange Act Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) 
and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder. 
        
       115.   As a result of the conduct described above, Wakefield willfully violated Securities 
Act Section 17(a), Exchange Act Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5), and Rules 10b-5(a) and (c) and 
13b2-1 thereunder, and willfully aided and abetted and caused CSC’s violations of Securities Act 
Section 17(a), Exchange Act Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) and Rules 10b-5, 
13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder. 
 
                               CSC’S REMEDIAL EFFORTS 

       In determining to accept CSC’s Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts 
undertaken by CSC and cooperation afforded the Commission staff in connection with the 
misconduct in the Nordic region and Australia.   

                                              IV. 
                                                 
       Respondent CSC has undertaken to: 
 
       A.     Retain, at CSC’s expense within 30 days of issuance of this Order, qualified 
independent ethics and compliance consultant (the “Consultant”) with extensive experience in 
developing, implementing and overseeing organizational compliance and ethics programs, not 
unacceptable to the staff, to conduct an ethics and compliance program assessment focused on 
the components of the program delineated in (1)-(3) below.  The Consultant shall also have 
expertise in, or retain someone with expertise in, internal accounting controls and public 
company financial reporting as well as percentage of completion accounting.  Taking into 
account the Company’s remedial actions to date, CSC shall cause the Consultant to analyze 
whether the components of CSC’s ethics and compliance program as they relate to the areas 
described in (1)-(3) below have been implemented successfully and are having the desired 
effects.  The Consultant will determine whether the culture is supportive of ethical and compliant 
conduct, including strong, explicit, and visible support and commitment by the Board and senior 
management.  In discharging this undertaking, the Consultant shall: 

                                                 
                                               26 
---------------------Page 27---------------------

                                                                                                  

               1.     evaluate and assess the effectiveness of the internal accounting controls 
and financial reporting policies and procedures, including but not limited to: 

                      a.      whether CSC’s internal accounting controls are sufficient to 
provide reasonable assurances that the company is maintaining fair and accurate books, records 
and accounts, with particular emphasis on whether they are designed to address the integrity of 
its revenue accounting and ensure consistent accuracy and integrity given the global nature of 
CSC’s business; 

                      b.     whether CSC has specific accounting and financial reporting 
controls and procedures sufficient to ensure that all accounting models comply with applicable 
accounting rules and policies, and updated revenue accounting models are prepared as required.  

               2.     evaluate and assess whether CSC has disclosure controls and procedures 
designed to ensure that all material information necessary to understand CSC’s financial 
condition and operating results, including material operational risks, uncertainties, and trends, 
are appropriately disclosed on a timely basis.  The review shall include, but not be limited to, 

                      a.      whether the work of CSC’s delivery assurance group receives 
appropriate visibility and consideration for disclosure purposes; 

                      b.     whether CSC’s disclosure committee is sufficiently independent to 
ensure broad and robust consideration of all potentially material operational risks and 
uncertainties; and  

                      c.      whether CSC’s corporate culture has any impact (positive or 
negative) on the company’s ability to comply fully with its disclosure obligations. 

               3.     evaluate, for purposes of analyzing the areas addressed above in (1) and 
(2), whether there are proper resources, oversight and independence of the compliance and ethics 
function, including seniority of corporate executives responsible for implementation and 
oversight, reporting lines, autonomy and independence, compensation and rewards, consistent 
discipline, resources, and access to information and personnel.  The review shall include 
sufficiency of training and guidance, including regarding anti-retaliation and whistleblowing. 

       B.     Provide the Consultant with complete access and resources to review key 
documents (e.g., business principles, Code of Conduct, policies and procedures, risk 
assessments, performance evaluation forms, relevant internal training materials and internal 
communications).  In reviewing the creation, administration and implementation of the 
compliance and ethics program as it relates to the areas addressed in ¶ A, the Consultant shall 
conduct an assessment survey and interview relevant personnel.  The assessment need not be a 
comprehensive review of all business lines, activities and markets but can use a risk-based 
approach.  The Consultant shall consider, however, the breakdown of internal controls in 
multiple markets and continents during the relevant time period of this action; 

                                                 
                                               27 
---------------------Page 28---------------------

                                                                                                  

       C.     Provide a report to the Commission staff and CSC’s General Counsel and Chief 
Ethics and Compliance Officer, as described below, regarding the Consultant’s findings and 
recommendations; 

       D.     Provide a copy of the engagement letter detailing the Consultant’s responsibilities 
to Stephen L. Cohen, Associate Director, Division of Enforcement, U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549; 

       E.     Cooperate fully with the Consultant, including providing the Consultant with 
access to its files, books, records and personnel as reasonably requested for the above-described 
review except to the extent such files, books, or records are protected from disclosure by any 
applicable protection or privilege such as the attorney-client privilege or the attorney work 
product doctrine.  To the extent that the Consultant believes that documents are being withheld 
unreasonably, CSC shall work cooperatively with the Consultant to resolve the matter, and if 
they are unable to reach agreement, the Consultant shall promptly notify the Commission staff.  
To ensure the independence of the Consultant, CSC shall not have the authority to terminate the 
Consultant without prior written approval of the Commission’s staff and shall compensate the 
Consultant and persons engaged to assist the Consultant for services rendered pursuant to this 
Order at their reasonable and customary rates; 

       F.     Require the Consultant to report to the Commission staff on his/her activities as 
the staff shall request; 

       G.     Permit the Consultant to engage such assistance, clerical, legal or expert, as 
necessary and at reasonable cost, to carry out his/her activities, and the cost, if any, of such 
assistance shall be borne exclusively by CSC; 

       H.     Require, within 120 days of the issuance of this Order unless otherwise extended 
by the Commission staff for good cause, the Consultant to complete the review and report to the 
Commission staff and CSC’s General Counsel and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer 
concerning: 

              1.     the scope and methodologies used by the Consultant in order to complete 
the review; 

              2.     CSC’s compliance with the review; 

              3.     the adequacy of CSC’s existing policies, practices and procedures 
regarding the matters assessed; and 

              4.     the Consultant’s recommendations, if necessary, regarding modification or 
supplementation of CSC’s policies, practices and procedures related to the matters assessed (the 
“Recommendations”). 

                                                 
                                               28 
---------------------Page 29---------------------

                                                                                                  

       I.      Adopt and implement, within 120 days of CSC’s receipt of the 
Recommendations, all of the Recommendations; provided, however, that as to any 
Recommendation that CSC considers to be, in whole or in part, unduly burdensome or 
impractical, CSC may submit in writing to the Consultant and the Commission staff (at the 
address set forth above), within 60 days of receiving the Recommendations, an alternative 
policy, practice or procedure designed to achieve the same objective or purpose.  CSC and the 
Consultant shall then attempt in good faith to reach an agreement relating to each 
Recommendation that CSC considers to be unduly burdensome or impractical and the Consultant 
shall reasonably evaluate any alternative policy, practice or procedure proposed by CSC.  Such 
discussion and evaluation shall conclude within 90 days after CSC’s receipt of the 
Recommendations, whether or not CSC and the Consultant have reached an agreement.  Within 
14 days after the conclusion of the discussion and evaluation by CSC and the Consultant, CSC 
shall require that the Consultant inform CSC and the staff (at the address set forth above) of 
his/her final determination concerning any Recommendation that CSC considers to be unduly 
burdensome or impractical.  CSC shall abide by the determinations of the Consultant and, within 
60 days after final agreement between CSC and the Consultant or final determination by the 
Consultant, whichever occurs first, CSC shall adopt and implement all of the Recommendations 
that the Consultant deems appropriate;  

       J.      Within 14 days of CSC’s adoption of all of the Recommendations that the 
Consultant deems appropriate, CSC’s General Counsel and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer 
shall certify in writing to the staff (at the address set forth above) that CSC has adopted and 
implemented all of the Consultant’s Recommendations and that CSC has established policies, 
practices and procedures that are consistent with the findings of this Order; 

       K.     Require the Consultant to enter into an agreement that provides that, for the 
period of engagement and for a period of two years from completion of the engagement, the 
Consultant shall not enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other 
professional relationship with CSC or any of their present or former affiliates, directors, officers, 
employees or agents acting in their capacity as such.  The agreement will also provide that the 
Consultant will require that any firm with which he/she is affiliated or of which he/she is a 
member, and any person engaged to assist the Consultant in the performance of his/her duties 
under this Order shall not, without the prior written consent of the Commission staff, enter into 
any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with 
CSC, or any of their present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees or agents acting in 
their capacity as such, for the period of the engagement and for a period of two years after the 
engagement; 

       L.     Certify in writing to the Commission staff (at the address set forth above), in the 
second year following the issuance of this Order, that CSC has established and continues to 
maintain policies, practices and procedures consistent with the findings of this Order; 

                                                 
                                               29 
---------------------Page 30---------------------

                                                                                                    

CSC may apply to the   Commission staff for an extension of the deadlines described above before 
their expiration, and upon a showing of good cause by CSC, the Commission staff may, in its 
sole discretion, grant such extensions for whatever time period it deems appropriate;  
 
                                                V. 
                                                  
       In connection with this action and any related judicial or administrative proceeding or 
investigation commenced by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party, 
Respondents Laphen, Mancuso, and Wakefield (i) agree to appear and be interviewed by 
Commission staff at such times and places as the staff requests upon reasonable notice; (ii) will 
accept service by mail or facsimile transmission of notices or subpoenas issued by the 
Commission for documents or testimony at depositions, hearings, or trials, or in connection with 
any related investigation by Commission staff; (iii) appoint Respondents’ undersigned attorneys 
as agents to receive service of such notices and subpoenas; (iv) with respect to such notices and 
subpoenas, waive the territorial limits on service contained in Rule 45 of the Federal Rules of 
Civil Procedure and any applicable local rules, provided that the party requesting the interview or 
testimony reimburses Respondents’ travel, lodging, and subsistence expenses at the then-prevailing 
U.S. Government per diem rates; and (v) consent to personal jurisdiction over Respondents in any 
United States District Court for purposes of enforcing any such subpoena. 
 
       In determining whether to accept Laphen’s, Mancuso’s, and Wakefield’s Offers, the 
Commission has considered these undertakings. 
 
                                                VI. 
 
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
 
        Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Exchange Act, and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, it is hereby ORDERED, 
effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.     CSC cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future 
violations of Securities Act Section 17(a), Exchange Act Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 
13(b)(2)(B), and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder. 

       B.     Laphen cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future 
violations of Securities Act Sections 17(a)(2) and (a)(3), Exchange Act Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B), Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-13, 13a-14, and 13b2-1 thereunder, and 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 304. 

       C.     Laphen is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant. 

                                                  
                                                30 
---------------------Page 31---------------------

                                                                                                    

       D.      After three years from the date of this Order, Laphen may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief 
Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such an 
application must satisfy the Commission that Laphen’s work in his practice before the Commission 
will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company for which he 
works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the Commission in this 
capacity; and/or 
                
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
                
                      (a)     Laphen, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
                
                      (b)     Laphen, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of or 
potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that 
the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)     Laphen has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has 
complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
                       
                      (d)     Laphen acknowledges his responsibility, as long as he appears or 
practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all requirements of 
the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to 
registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
 
       E.     The Commission will consider an application by Laphen to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, if 
state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an 
application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in 
addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Laphen’s character, integrity, 
professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

       F.     Mancuso cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future 
violations of Securities Act Sections 17(a)(2) and (a)(3), Exchange Act Section 13(a) and Rules 
12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-13, and 13a-14 thereunder, and Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 304. 

                                                  
                                                31 
---------------------Page 32---------------------

                                                                                                   

       G.     Zilmer cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future 
violations of Exchange Act Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13, 
and 13b2-1 thereunder. 

       H.     Banks cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future 
violations of Securities Act Section 17(a), Exchange Act Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 
13(b)(2)(B), and 13(b)(5), and Rules 10b-5, 13a-1, 13a-13, and 13b2-1 thereunder. 

       I.      Banks be, and hereby is, prohibited for four years from the date of this Order from 
acting as an officer or director of any issuer that has a class of securities registered pursuant to 
Section 12 of the Exchange Act or that is required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the 
Exchange Act. 

       J.      Banks is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant. 

       K.     After four years from the date of this Order, Banks may request that the Commission 
consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) 
to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

                1.    a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Banks’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
                
                      (a)     Banks, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, 
is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance 
with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
                       
                      (b)     Banks, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of 
or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)     Banks has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has 
complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
                       

                                                  
                                                32 
---------------------Page 33---------------------

                                                                                                     

                       (d)    Banks acknowledges his responsibility, as long as he appears or 
practices before the Commission as   an independent accountant, to comply with all requirements 
of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to 
registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
                
       L.     The Commission will consider an application by Banks to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his practicing certificate is current, and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand.  
However, if licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Banks’s character, 
integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

       M.     Wakefield cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Securities Act Section 17(a), Exchange Act Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 
13(b)(2)(B), and 13(b)(5), and Rules 10b-5, 13a-1, 13a-13, and 13b2-1 thereunder. 

       N.     Wakefield be, and hereby is, prohibited for three years from the date of this Order 
from acting as an officer or director of any issuer that has a class of securities registered pursuant to 
Section 12 of the Exchange Act or that is required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the 
Exchange Act. 

       O.     Wakefield is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission 
as an accountant. 

       P.     After three years from the date of this Order, Wakefield may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief 
Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

               1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Wakefield’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
                
                       (a)    Wakefield, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
                        

                                                   
                                                 33 
---------------------Page 34---------------------

                                                                                                   

                      (b)     Wakefield, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)     Wakefield has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
                       
                      (d)     Wakefield acknowledges his responsibility, as long as he appears 
or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
                
       Q.     The Commission will consider an application by Wakefield to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his practicing certificate is current, and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and 
Wales.  However, if licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the 
Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may 
include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating 
to Wakefield’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice 
before the Commission. 

       R.     Within 7 days of the entry of this Order, CSC shall pay a civil money penalty of 
$190,000,000; Laphen shall pay a civil money penalty of $750,000; Mancuso shall pay a civil 
money penalty of $175,000; and Banks shall pay disgorgement of $10,990, which represents 
profits gained as a result of the conduct described herein, and prejudgment interest of $2,400, to the 
Securities and Exchange Commission.  If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall 
accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600 or 31 U.S.C. § 3717.   

       S.     Payments must be made in one of the following ways:   

               (1)    Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, 
                      which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon 
                      request;  
                
               (2)    Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
                
               (3)    Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
                                 Enterprise Services Center 

                                                  
                                                34 
---------------------Page 35---------------------

                                                                                                   

                                 Accounts Receivable   Branch  
                                 HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ     -341  
                                 6500 South MacArthur Boulevard     
                                 Oklahoma City, OK 73169     
 
       T.     Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter 
identifying the Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy 
of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Stephen L. Cohen, Associate Director, 
Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE, Washington, DC 
20549. 

       U.     Within 7 days of entry of this Order, Laphen shall pay CSC $3,771,000 and 
Mancuso shall pay CSC $369,100 pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 304.  Laphen and 
Mancuso shall deliver proof of satisfying payment to Stephen L. Cohen, Associate Director, 
Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE, Washington, DC 
20549. 

       V.     Pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, a Fair 
Fund is created for the civil money penalties referenced in paragraph R above.  Regardless of 
whether any such Fair Fund distribution is made, amounts ordered to be paid as civil money 
penalties pursuant to this Order shall be treated as penalties paid to the government for all 
purposes, including all tax purposes.  To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, each 
Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor Action, Respondent shall not argue that it/he is 
entitled to, nor shall it/he benefit by, offset or reduction of any award of compensatory damages by 
the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”).  
If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, each Respondent agrees 
that it/he shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the 
Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the Securities and 
Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil penalty and shall 
not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes 
of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a private damages action brought against any 
Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based on substantially the same facts as 
alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this proceeding. 

                               

                                                  
                                                35 
---------------------Page 36---------------------

                                                                                                      

       W.      Respondent CSC shall comply with the undertakings enumerated above in Section 
IV. 

 
                    
       By  the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                      Brent J. Fields 
                                                      Secretary 

                                                   
                                                 36 
