---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                      the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 9032 / May 26, 2009 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 59973 / May 26, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2974 / May 26, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13485 
                                              ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
In the Matter of                             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO SECTION 
                                             8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 AND 
      CSK AUTO CORPORATION,                  SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                             EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING 
Respondent.                                  FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-
                                              DESIST ORDER  
 
 
 
                                               
 
                                          I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act 
of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 
Act”), against CSK Auto Corporation (“CSK” or “Respondent”). 
                                            
                                          II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21C of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1
                                                                                that:  
        
                                           Summary 
  
        This case involves a financial reporting fraud at CSK during the company’s fiscal years 
2002, 2003, and 2004.  Specifically, CSK, through its former chief operating officer, former chief 
financial officer, former controller, and former director of credits and receivables (all of whom 
left CSK in 2006), materially overstated the company’s income by (i) failing to write off vendor 
allowance receivables when they knew, or should have known, the receivables were 
uncollectible, and (ii) improperly recognizing certain vendor allowances during fiscal year 2003.  
CSK’s failure to write off vendor allowances and improper recognition of vendor allowances in 
2003 were contrary to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”).  As a result of its 
failure to write off uncollectible vendor allowance receivables and over recognition of vendor 
allowances, CSK filed false financial statements materially overstating its pre-tax income for 
fiscal year 2002 by approximately 47%, or $11 million, fiscal year 2003 by approximately $34 
million, thereby reporting pre-tax income instead of a pre-tax loss, and fiscal year 2004 by 
approximately 65%, or $21 million. 
 
                                          Respondent 
 
       1.     CSK Auto Corporation is a Delaware corporation with its principal executive 
offices in Phoenix, Arizona.  CSK’s common stock was registered with the Commission 
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and listed on the New York Stock Exchange.  On 
July 11, 2008, CSK was acquired by another publicly traded company, O’Reilly Automotive Inc.  
On July 15, 2008, the NYSE filed a Form 25 delisting and deregistering from Section 12(b) 
CSK’s common stock.  On July 31, 2008, CSK filed a Form 15 deregistering its common stock 
from Section 12(g) of the Securities Act.  CSK is currently a wholly owned subsidiary of 
O’Reilly.2
           

                                         Background 
        
       2.           As a retailer of automotive products, CSK purchased products from vendors that 
manufacture automotive parts and accessories.  During CSK’s fiscal years 2002, 2003, and 2004, 
CSK received vendor allowances from most of its vendors.  Vendor allowances are a form of 
financial support that a vendor provides CSK, either by paying CSK or allowing CSK to deduct 
vendor allowance amounts from amounts CSK pays the vendor for goods, to support CSK’s efforts 
to promote and advertise the vendor’s products.  Although CSK had various vendor allowance 
                                                 
1
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
 
2
 All of the conduct that gave rise to this proceeding took place before O’Reilly acquired CSK.  
The conduct described in this Order occurred before 2006.  O’Reilly acquired CSK in 2008. 
                                               2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

programs, its largest and most important was its Let’s Work Together program (“LWT”).  
Typically, the LWT allowance agreements covered a one-year period, which CSK referred to as 
the “program year.”  The LWT allowance agreements varied from vendor to vendor, but in general 
CSK earned allowances as a (i) set dollar amount, (ii) percentage of the amount CSK spent to 
purchase the vendor’s product, or (iii) certain number of cents per item CSK purchased from the 
vendor.    
        
       3.           CSK recognized LWT allowances ratably, on a monthly basis, based on its estimate 
of the total allowances it expected to receive for the entire program year.  CSK purported to base 
its estimate on the LWT agreement’s terms and CSK’s expected total purchases from each vendor 
during the program year.   
        
       4.           Each LWT program year had its own account receivable.  When CSK recognized 
LWT allowances during a program year, it increased the corresponding program year’s account 
receivable.  In general, CSK recognized vendor allowances as a reduction to cost of sales, thereby 
increasing the company’s pre-tax income.  When CSK collected vendor allowances for a particular 
program year, GAAP required that CSK reduce the outstanding receivable for that same program 
year. 
        
       5.           During fiscal years 2002, 2003, and 2004, CSK knew that it could not collect all 
of the vendor allowances it had previously recognized.  GAAP required CSK to write off an 
outstanding receivable once it is probable it will not be collected and the amount of the loss can 
be reasonably estimated.  Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5 (“SFAS No. 5”), 
Accounting for Contingencies Paragraph 8.  Contrary to GAAP, CSK failed to write off its 
uncollectible vendor allowances receivables. 
        
       6.           As a result, large unpaid amounts, or accounts receivable, built up on CSK’s 
books.  Instead of writing off these uncollectible amounts and taking the requisite reduction to 
earnings as required by GAAP, CSK hid the deficiencies by (i) improperly moving vendor 
allowances earned and collected for later program years to the prior program year’s accounts 
receivable, referred to within CSK as “filling the bucket,” and (ii) incorrectly accounting for 
amounts paid back to vendors.  Through this conduct, CSK avoided writing off tens of millions 
of dollars in uncollectible receivables.  CSK “filled the bucket” by (i) making baseless journal 
entries reducing the account receivable for the earlier LWT program year with an offsetting 
increase to the account receivable for a later program year, and (ii) applying vendor allowances 
earned and collected during a later LWT program year to an earlier LWT program year’s 
receivable.   
        
       7.           CSK also failed to write off vendor allowances it had to pay back to its vendors 
because the company had over-collected for prior periods.  Instead of writing off amounts CSK 
had to pay back, which would reduce its pre-tax income, the company increased a later LWT 
program year’s account receivable, making it appear to have collected an older account 
receivable when all CSK had done was move the outstanding receivable balance to a more recent 
year. 
        

                                               3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       8.           CSK failed to write off approximately $11 million of uncollectible receivables 
during fiscal 2002, approximately $24 million of uncollectible receivables during fiscal year 2003, 
and approximately $21 million of uncollectible receivables during fiscal year 2004.   
        
       9. In addition, during    fiscal year 2003, CSK improperly recognized approximately $10 
million in vendor allowances that either had not been earned or should have been applied to an 
outstanding account receivable.   
        
       10.        During the summer of 2005, CSK issued approximately $15 million in debit memos 
to its vendors to collect LWT allowances that CSK knew it had already collected.  When the 
vendors complained and CSK had to pay them back, some of the credit memos CSK issued 
intentionally misrepresented the reasons for the paybacks. 
        
       11.        Throughout this time, CSK failed to implement internal accounting controls relating 
to its inventory, cost of sales, and revenue accounts that were sufficient to provide reasonable 
assurances that these accounts were accurately stated in accordance with GAAP.       
        
       12.        Because of the vendor allowance scheme, CSK filed false financial statements 
materially overstating its pre-tax income for fiscal year 2002 by approximately 47%, or $11 
million, fiscal year 2003 by approximately $34 million, thereby reporting pre-tax income instead of 
a pre-tax loss, and fiscal year 2004 by approximately 65%, or $21 million.  
        
       13.        While the false financial statements were outstanding, CSK engaged in several 
private debt offerings.  In January 2004, CSK issued $225 million of 7% Senior Subordinated 
Notes.  In August 2005, CSK completed a $125 million issuance of 3 3/8% senior exchangeable 
notes.  In December 2005, CSK issued $100 million of 4 5/8% senior exchangeable notes.  CSK’s 
materially false financial statements filed with its Forms 10-K for fiscal years 2003 and 2004 were 
incorporated by reference in the Form S-3 and Form S-4 Registration Statements filed with the 
Commission during fiscal years 2004 and 2005.    
        
       14.        As a result of the conduct described above, CSK violated Section 17(a) of the 
Securities Act, which prohibits fraudulent conduct in the offer or sale of securities, and Section 
10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in 
connection with the purchase or sale of securities.  
         
       15.        As a result of the conduct described above, CSK also violated Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 12b-20 thereunder, which require every issuer of a security 
registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act file with the Commission information, 
documents, and annual reports as the Commission may require, and mandate that periodic reports 
contain such further material information as may be necessary to make the required statements not 
misleading. 
        
       16.        As a result of the conduct described above, CSK also violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) 
of the Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to make and keep books, records, and 

                                                4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their transactions and dispositions 
of their assets.  
         
        17.        Lastly, as a result of the conduct described above, CSK also violated Section 
13(b)(2)(B), which requires all reporting companies to devise and maintain a system of internal 
accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as 
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles. 
         
                                          CSK’s Remedial Efforts 
                                                          
        In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts 
promptly undertaken by Respondent and cooperation afforded the Commission staff. 
 
                                                       IV. 
                                                          
         In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
         Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
              A.          Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Respondent cease and desist from 
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities 
Act. 
 
              B.          Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent cease and desist from 
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 10(b), 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, and 13a-1 thereunder. 
 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth M. Murphy 
       Secretary 

                                                         5 
