---------------------Page 1---------------------

                         UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                   Before the 
                  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 9919 / September 18, 2015 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 75949 / September 18, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3701 / September 18, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16339 
 
                                        
In the Matter of                       ORDER  MAKING FINDINGS AND 
                                       IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS  AND A 
 JOHN BRINER, ESQ.,                    CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER  PURSUANT 
 DIANE DALMY,  ESQ.,                   TO SECTION  8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT 
 DE JOYA GRIFFITH, LLC ,               OF 1933 AND SECTION S 4C AND 21C OF 
 ARTHUR DE JOYA,  CPA,                 THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 
 JASON GRIFFITH,  CPA,                 1934, AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
 CHRIS WHETMAN,  CPA,             COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE 
 PHILIP ZHANG,  CPA,                                    
 M&K CPAS, PLLC,  
 MATT MANIS,  CPA, 
 JON RIDENOUR,  CPA, and 
 BEN ORTEGO , CPA, 
 
Respondent s. 
 
 
 
 
                                            
                                       I.  
 
      On January 15, 2015, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deeming 
it appropriate, instituted public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings pursuant to 
Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice 
against Ben Ortego (“Ortego” or “Respondent”).  
 

                                         
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               II. 
                                                  
       Respondent has submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”), which the Commission has 
determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings 
brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without 
admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and 
the subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of 
this Order, as set forth below. 
 
                                               III. 
                                                  
                                                                                1
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that: 
 
                                        RESPONDENT 

       1.      Ortego, 35, of Houston, Texas, is a CPA licensed in the state of Texas and, for the 
relevant time period, a partner of M&K. 

                        RELEVANT ENTITIES AND INDIVIDUALS 

       2.      John Briner (“Briner”), 35, is an attorney and a Canadian citizen who resides in 
Vancouver, British Columbia.  Briner’s law firm was MetroWest Law Corporation (“MetroWest”).  
Briner also controlled Jervis Explorations Inc. (“Jervis”), a British Columbia corporation.  In 2010, 
to resolve a Commission action against him alleging a pump-and-dump and market manipulation 
scheme, Briner consented to the entry of a federal court judgment that enjoined him from violating 
the antifraud and securities registration provisions of the federal securities laws; barred him for five 
years from participating in penny stock offerings; and ordered him to disgorge ill-gotten gains of 
$52,488.32 plus prejudgment interest and pay a civil penalty of $25,000.  SEC v. Golden Apple Oil 
and Gas, Inc., et al., 09-Civ-7580 (S.D.N.Y.) (HB).  The Commission subsequently suspended 
Briner from appearing or practicing before it as an attorney, with a right to apply for reinstatement 
after five years.  John Briner, Exchange Act Release No. 63371, 2010 WL 4783445 (Nov. 24, 
2010). 

       3.      Diane Dalmy (“Dalmy”), 58, is an attorney who resides in Denver, Colorado and is 
admitted to practice law in Colorado.  Dalmy issued opinion letters for the issuers identified below. 

       4.      Jervis is a British Columbia corporation whose sole director is John Briner.  Jervis 
purportedly sold certain British Columbia mineral claims to each of the issuers. 

       5.      M&K CPAS, PLLC (“M&K”) is a registered public accounting firm based in 
Houston, Texas.  For all relevant times, Ortego was a partner of M&K. 

       6.      Chum Mining Group Inc. (“Chum”) is a Nevada corporation organized in June 
2012.  On November 30, 2012, Chum filed a Form S-1 registration statement with the Commission 

                                                 
       1
         The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                                  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

seeking to register management’s common shares for resale in a $20,000 public offering.  Its 
registration statement states that it has its principal offices in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. 
        
       7.      Eclipse Resources Inc. (“Eclipse”) is a Nevada corporation organized in May 
2012.  On December 3, 2012, Eclipse filed a Form S-1 registration statement with the Commission 
seeking to register management’s common shares for resale in an $18,000 public offering.  Its 
registration statement states that it has its principal offices in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.   
        
       8.      PRWC Energy Inc. (“PRWC”) is a Nevada corporation organized in May 2012.  
On December 6, 2012, PRWC filed a Form S-1 registration statement with the Commission 
seeking to register management’s common shares for resale in a $20,000 public offering.  Its 
registration statement states that it has its principal offices in Salt Lake City, Utah. 
        
       9.      The issuers identified in paragraphs 6 through 8 are collectively defined herein as 
the “Issuers.” 
        
              ORTEGO CONDUCTED MATERIALLY DEFICIENT AUDITS 

       Background 

       10.    In or about November 2011, Briner contacted M&K to conduct audits of certain 
 issuers’ financial statements that were to be included in Form S-1 registration statements.  Ortego 
 was the engagement partner for the Issuers’ audits. 

       11.    Ortego knew that Briner did the accounting and created the financial statements to 
 be used in the Form S-1 registration statements for each of the Issuers.  Ortego also knew that 
 Briner maintained all of the Issuers’ purported funds “in trust” in an account Briner controlled (the 
 “Master Trust Account”). 

       12.    Briner and his assistant were the exclusive contacts between M&K and each 
 Issuer’s officer.  Ortego did not directly communicate with any of the Issuers’ officers.  Ortego 
 knew that Briner provided all of the information concerning the Issuers and all of the supporting 
 evidence for their audits.   

       13.    The Issuers two largest transactions consisted of the officer’s purchase of Issuer 
 stock for $30,000 and the Issuer’s purchase of British Columbia mineral claims for between 
 $7,500 and $8,500 from Jervis. 

       14.    Ortego conducted the Issuers’ audits, including auditing the above transactions, and 
 consented to the inclusion of M&K’s audit report in each of the Issuers’ Form S-1 registration 
 statements filed with the Commission.  M&K was paid a total of $49,500 in fees for the audits, 
 including $9,900 for the Issuers’ audits.  Each audit report stated that “[w]e conducted our audit in 
 accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United 
 States)” and that the financial statements present the Issuers’ financial position “in conformity 
 with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.” 

                                                  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       Ortego Failed to Detect Red Flags in Accepting 
       and Continuing with the Issuers as Clients 

       15.    Under PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 12 (Identifying and Assessing Risks of 
Material Misstatement) (“AS 12”), auditors should “evaluate whether information obtained from 
the client acceptance and retention evaluation process or audit planning activities is relevant to 
                                                  2
identifying risks of material misstatement” (¶ 41).  

       16.    Also, auditors must meet PCAOB standard AU Section 230 (Due Professional Care 
in the Performance of Work) (“AU 230”), which requires that auditors “exercise professional 
skepticism” (at .07), “consider the competency and sufficiency of the evidence” (at .08), and 
“neither assume[] that management is dishonest nor assume[] unquestioned honesty” (at .09). 

       17.    M&K’s policy called for “background checks on all significant owners and chief 
executives.”  In practice, such check consisted of a simple Internet search.     

       18.    Ortego failed to sufficiently question or otherwise investigate the Issuers’ 
management, which would have revealed Briner’s undisclosed role as a control person.  Nor did he 
conduct a background check of Briner or Dalmy, which at minimum would have turned up, among 
other things, the Commission’s complaint alleging fraud and suspension order against Briner, and 
that Briner had been on the OTC Market’s Prohibited Attorney List since March 15, 2006, and that 
Dalmy had also been on the list since September 25, 2009. 

       19.    Upon referring the Issuers, Briner’s assistant provided M&K with the names of the 
officers, the inception dates, and the year-end dates for each of the Issuers.  From this, Ortego was 
on notice that the three Issuers were incorporated the same day or within one day of each other 
(May 31, 2012 or June 1, 2012).   

       20.    This information should have at least caused Ortego to question why the Issuers’ 
dates of incorporation appeared to be coordinated.  Ortego failed to ask any questions with respect 
to this information. 

       21.    For the above reasons, Ortego failed to meet AS 12 and AU 230. 

       Ortego Failed to Obtain an Understanding of the Issuers 

       22.    Under AS 12, auditors should “obtain an understanding of the company and its 
environment . . . to understand the events, conditions, and company activities that might reasonably 
be expected to have a significant effect on the risks of material misstatement,” including “[t]he 
nature of the company” (¶ 7.b.) and “[t]he company’s objectives and strategies and those related 
business risks that might reasonably be expected to result in risks of material misstatement” (¶ 
7.d.).  Further, obtaining an understanding of the nature of the company includes understanding 
“[t]he company’s organizational structure and management personnel; [t]he sources of funding of 
the company’s operations and investment activities, including the company’s capital structure[, 
t]he company’s operating characteristics, including its size and complexity” (¶ 10), and “an 
                                                 
       2
         The PCAOB standards referenced herein are the standards that were in effect during the 
time of   relevant conduct. 

                                                   
---------------------Page 5---------------------

understanding of internal control includes evaluating the design of controls that are relevant to the 
audit and determining whether the controls have been implemented” (¶ 20). 

       23.    Additionally, auditors must meet AU 230, which requires that auditors “exercise 
professional skepticism” (at .07) and engagement partners “should be knowledgeable about the 
client” and are responsible for the “supervision of[] members of the engagement team” (.06). 

       24.    Ortego failed to obtain a sufficient understanding of the Issuers.  What little 
understanding of the Issuers he obtained came almost entirely from draft Form S-1 registration 
statements and responses to certain questionnaires from the Issuers, both provided by Briner.  
Ortego did not obtain an understanding of the Issuers through direct communication with the 
Issuers’ officers.   

       25.    In obtaining an understanding of the Issuers, Ortego did not question the substantial 
similarities among the Issuers.  The Issuers filed three nearly identical Form S-1 registration 
statements.  Using almost exactly the same language, each stated the following: (1) the Issuers are 
not blank check companies; (2) the Issuers’ officers purchased Issuer stock for $30,000; (2) the 
Issuers purchased British Columbia mineral claims from Jervis; (3) Jervis supplied nearly all the 
Issuers’ with their business plans; (4) the officers “solely” control the company; (5) the officers 
planned to devote only 4 to 5 hours each week to the business; and (6) the officers have not 
inspected the land comprising the mineral claims.   

       26.    Despite reviewing all three of the Issuers’ registration statements within a six-week 
period, Ortego did not raise any concern about the similarities among the registration statements, or 
perform any enhanced procedures to respond to the level of risk presented. 

       27.    For the above reasons, Ortego failed to meet AS 12 and AU 230.   

               Ortego Failed to Properly Audit the Issuers’ Cash 

       28.      Under PCAOB standard AU Section 330 (The Confirmation Process) (“AU 330”), 
when “information about the respondent’s [i.e., the person or entity from which a confirmation is 
requested] competence, knowledge, motivation, ability, or willingness to respond, or about the 
respondent’s objectivity and freedom from bias with respect to the audited entity comes to the 
auditor’s attention, the auditor should consider the effects of such information on designing the 
confirmation request and evaluating the results” and, in circumstances where “the respondent is the 
custodian of a material amount of the audited entity’s assets,” the auditor should exercise “a 
heightened degree of professional skepticism” and “should consider whether there is sufficient 
basis for concluding that the confirmation request is being sent to a respondent from whom the 
auditor can expect the response will provide meaningful and appropriate audit evidence” (at .27).  

       29.    Additionally, under PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 15 (Audit Evidence) (“AS 
15”), “[t]he auditor must plan and perform audit procedures to obtain sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence to provide a reasonable basis for his or her opinion” (¶ 4).  To be appropriate, audit 
evidence must be both relevant and reliable in providing support for the conclusions on which the 
auditor’s opinion is based.  “The reliability of evidence depends on the nature and source of the 
evidence and the circumstances under which it is obtained” (¶ 8).  Under PCAOB Auditing 
Standard No. 13 (The Auditor’s Responses to the Risks of Material Misstatement) (“AS 13”), 

                                                  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

“[t]he auditor’s responses to the assessed risks of material misstatement, particularly fraud risks, 
should involve the application of professional skepticism in gathering and evaluating audit 
evidence” (¶ 7). 

       30.    Ortego exhibited no concern about Briner’s handling of the Issuers’ alleged cash.  
Ortego knew that Briner held all of the Issuers’ purported funds in the Master Trust Account and 
that none of the Issuers had their own bank account.  Ortego also knew that Briner was a 
“consultant” to the Issuers and that MetroWest was a law firm.  Ortego did not seek any 
appropriate audit evidence about what, if any, limitations governed Briner’s use of the cash in his 
Master Trust Account.  Nor did he ask for a reconciliation between Briner’s Master Trust Account 
and the schedules Briner provided purportedly showing how much cash in his account was 
attributable to each Issuer. 

       31.    In addition, Ortego violated the above standards by failing to apply professional 
skepticism in gathering and evaluating the evidence obtained, such as Briner’s confirmation of 
Issuer cash, and consider Briner’s “objectivity and freedom from bias with respect to the audited 
entity” in relation to the Issuers’ cash confirmation Briner provided. 

       Ortego Disregarded Red Flags that Briner’s Services to 
       the Issuers Were Not Given Accounting Recognition 

       32.    Under PCAOB standard AU Section 334 (Related Parties) (“AU 334”), transactions 
that are indicative of the existence of related parties include, among other things, “transactions 
[that] are occurring, but are not being given accounting recognition, such as receiving or providing 
accounting, management or other services at no charge” (at .08(f)).  Further, under AS 15, “[i]f 
audit evidence obtained from one source is inconsistent with that obtained from another, or if the 
auditor has doubts about the reliability of information to be used as audit evidence, the auditor 
should perform the audit procedures necessary to resolve the matter and should determine the 
effect, if any, on other aspects of the audit” (¶ 29).  Finally, auditors must exercise professional 
skepticism throughout the course of the engagement consistent with standard AU 230. 

       33.    Ortego failed to question Briner’s fee arrangement with the Issuers.  Instead, he 
relied on legal confirmation letters from Briner that conflicted on their face with what ledgers in 
his possession showed to be true about the services Briner provided.   

       34.    These letters each stated that “[a]s of the date of inception and up to the present 
date, the [Issuers were] not indebted to us for services and expenses (billed or unbilled) of which 
we are aware.”  Ortego knew that Briner provided substantial services to the Issuers, such as, 
among other things, performing accounting functions (paying expenses and recording 
transactions), drafting the Issuers’ registration statements, and preparing the Issuers’ financial 
statements for their registration statements.  Ortego also knew that the Issuers’ financial statements 
and general ledgers did not reflect payment for Briner’s services.  Despite this, Ortego did not ask 
Briner for any invoices, agreements, engagement letters, or any details about his fee arrangements 
with the Issuers.  Nor did he conduct any related party analysis. 

       35.    For the above reasons, Ortego failed to meet AU 334, AS 15, and AU 230. 

                                                   
---------------------Page 7---------------------

       Ortego Did Not Investigate the Issuers’ Failures to Account For Audit Fees 

        36.   Under AS 15, “[t]he auditor must plan and perform audit procedures to obtain 
sufficient appropriate audit evidence to provide a reasonable basis for his or her opinion” (¶ 4).  In 
doing so, the auditor must exercise professional skepticism throughout the course of the 
engagement consistent with AU 230. 

        37.   Additionally, under PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 14 (Evaluating Audit Results) 
(“AS 14”), the “auditor should take into account all relevant audit evidence, regardless of whether 
it appears to corroborate or to contradict the assertions in the financial statements” (¶ 3) and should 
take into account “[t]ransactions that are not recorded in a complete or timely manner or are 
improperly recorded as to amount, accounting period, classification, or company policy” 
(Appendix C, C1.a.(1)). 

        38.   Ortego did not question the Issuers’ failures to account for audit fees paid during 
the audit period, or failures to account for audit fees paid during the subsequent events period. 

        39.   Specifically, Ortego failed to investigate conflicting evidence regarding the audit 
fees received for the Issuers: Chum, Eclipse, and PRWC.  Even though M&K received $9,900 on 
August 14, 2012 from Briner to cover the Issuers’ audit fees ($3,300 each), Ortego did not question 
why Briner accounted only for the payment he made for Chum in the schedules he provided and 
not the payments he made for Eclipse and PRWC.  Ortego was the engagement partner for all three 
Issuers.  Yet he did not investigate this discrepancy. 

        40.   For the above reasons, Ortego failed to meet AS 14, AS 15, and AU 230. 

       Ortego Failed to Detect Basic Accounting Errors and Inconsistencies 
       Between the Financial Statements and the Registration Statements 

       41.    Under AU 230, “[a]n auditor should possess ‘the degree of skill commonly 
possessed’ by other auditors and should exercise it with ‘reasonable care and diligence’ (that is, 
with due professional care)” (at .05). 

       42.    During the audits, the Ortego failed to detect inconsistencies between the financial 
statements and information contained in other parts of the registration statements.  Specifically, in 
the Eclipse Form S-1 registration statement, the NOL listed in Note 2 on page F-7 as $11,175 is 
not consistent with Note 7 on page F-11, which lists the NOL as $2,675.  Additionally, in the 
Chum Form S-1 registration statement, the NOL listed in Note 2 on page F-7 as $10,175 is not 
consistent with the table in Note 7 on page F-12, which lists the net loss before taxes as $2,675.  
These errors may constitute material misstatements and reflect Ortego’s apparent lack of due care 
in conducting the Issuers’ audits. 

       43.    For these reasons, Ortego failed to meet AU 230. 

       Ortego Disregarded Red Flags that the Issuers’ 
       Stock Sales to Their Officers Were Shams 

       44.    Under PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 10 (Supervision of the Audit Engagement) 

                                                  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

(“AS 10”), the engagement partner “is responsible for proper supervision of the work of 
engagement team members and for compliance with PCAOB standards” (¶ 3) and should “[d]irect 
engagement team members to bring significant accounting and auditing issues arising during the 
audit to the attention of the engagement partner or other engagement team members performing 
supervisory activities so they can evaluate those issues and determine that appropriate actions are 
taken in accordance with PCAOB standards” (¶ 5 b.). 

       45.    Briner provided an M&K staff member with schedules for each of the Issuers 
(prepared by Briner) purportedly listing all transactions that the M&K staff member reviewed (the 
same person reviewed the audit evidence for all of the Issuers’ audits).   

       46.    Each of the schedules appeared to indicate that individuals or entities named “Luke 
Pretty” or “Dhaliwal” supplied the funds to pay for the officers’ stock purchases and characterized 
these transactions as “investments.”  The Issuers’ registration statements and stock purchase 
agreements (also reviewed by the same M&K staff member referred to above), by contrast, 
indicated that the Issuers’ respective officers paid for and purchased the Issuers’ stock. 

       47.    Additionally, these schedules contained contradictions, such as dates listed for stock 
purchases that occurred (1) before the Issuers were incorporated or (2) after the Issuers purchased 
their mineral claims.   

       48.    Ortego disregarded these inconsistencies and contradictions in the audit evidence in 
violation of AS 15, AS 12, and AU 230.  Ortego also failed to meet AS 10 by failing to direct the 
M&K staff member reviewing the audit evidence to bring significant accounting and auditing 
issues to his attention and by otherwise failing to supervise the M&K Issuers’ audits. 

   ORTEGO VIOLATED SECTION 17(a) OF THE SECURITES ACT, RULE 2-02 OF 
   REGULATION S-X, AND ENGAGED IN IMPROPER PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT 
 
       49.    As a result of the conduct described above, Ortego violated Sections 17(a)(2) and 
(3) of the Securities Act by claiming that the audits he conducted the Issuers audits in accordance 
with PCAOB standards when in fact he did not. 

       50.    Additionally, for failing to meet the PCAOB audit standards identified above in 
auditing the Issuers, Ortego engaged in improper professional conduct pursuant to the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) by each engaging in at least one instance of 
highly unreasonable conduct or at least two instances of unreasonable conduct under Rule 
102(e)(1)(iv).  Ortego also caused violations of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X by consenting 
to the provision of audit reports included in the Issuers’ Form S-1 Registration statements that state 
that the Issuers’ audits were conducted in accordance with PCAOB standards when in fact they 
were not.   

       51.    Further, as described above, Ortego willfully violated Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of 
the Securities Act thereby engaging in conduct subject to the Commission’s Rules of Practice Rule 
102(e)(1)(iii). 

                                                 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

                                  COMMISSION FINDINGS 

       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent: 

       A.     willfully violated Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act;  

       B.     engaged in improper professional conduct pursuant to Section 4C(a)(2) of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice;  

       C.     caused violations of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X; and  

       D.     willfully violated Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act thereby engaging 
in conduct subject to Section 4C(a)(3) of the Exchange Act and Practice Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice. 

                                               IV. 
        
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Ortego’s Offer. 
        
       Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Exchange Act, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
        
       A.     Respondent shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
any future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act and Rule 2-02(b)(1) of 
Regulation S-X. 

       B.     Respondent is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission 
as an accountant. 

       C.     After  three  years from the date of this Order,  Respondent  may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief 
Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as:      

                      1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such an 
application  must  satisfy  the  Commission  that  Respondent’s  work  in  his  practice  before  the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company for 
which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the Commission 
in this capacity; and/or 
        
                      2.      an  independent  accountant.    Such  an  application  must  satisfy  the 
Commission that: 
             
                              (a)    Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated,  is  registered  with  the  Public  Company  Accounting  Oversight  Board  (“Board”)  in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
        

                                                  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

                             (b)     Respondent,  or  the  registered  public  accounting  firm  with 
which he is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any 
criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
        
                             (c)     Respondent  has  resolved  all  disciplinary  issues  with  the 
Board, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board 
(other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
        
                             (d)     Respondent  acknowledges  his  responsibility,  as   long  as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply 
with  all  requirements  of  the  Commission  and  the  Board,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
        
       D.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has resolved 
all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, if state 
licensure is dependent  on  reinstatement  by  the  Commission, the  Commission  will  consider  an 
application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition 
to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, 
professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
        
       E.     Respondent shall, within  10  days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money 
penalty in the amount of $50,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the 
general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).   If timely 
payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717.  Payment must 
be made in one of the following ways:   
        
              (1)     Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
        
              (2)     Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
               
              (3)     Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and hand-
delivered or mailed to:  
        
       Enterprise Services Center 
       Accounts Receivable Branch 
       HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
       6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
       Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
        
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 

                                                 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

Ortego as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of 
the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Lara Shalov Mehraban, Division of 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 200 Vesey Street, NY 10281. 
        
       F.     Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be 
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To preserve 
the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor Action, he 
shall not argue that he is entitled to, nor shall he benefit by, offset or reduction of any award of 
compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil penalty in this 
action (“Penalty Offset”).  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, 
Respondent agrees that he shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty 
Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to 
the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil 
penalty  and  shall  not  be  deemed  to  change  the  amount  of  the  civil  penalty  imposed  in  this 
proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a private damages 
action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based on substantially 
the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this proceeding. 
 
                                                V. 
                                                  
       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S. C. §523, that the findings in this Order are true and admitted 
by Respondent, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other 
amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree or 
settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by 
Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set 
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 
        
        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
                                                             Brent J. Fields 
                                                             Secretary 

                                                  
