---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
       
       
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 9714 / January 28, 2015 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 74161 / January 28, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3622 / January 28, 2015  
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16363  
       
                                            ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE -AND-
In the Matter of                            DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
                                            SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT 
FIRST N ATIONAL C OMMUNITY                  OF 1933 AND SECTION 21C OF THE 
BANCORP INC. AND W ILLIAM LANCE,            SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, 
                                            MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING  A 
Respondent s.                               CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER  
       
              
                                           I.  
       
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act 
of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 
Act”), against First National Community Bancorp Inc. (“FNCB”) and William Lance (“Lance”).  
                                                
                                           II. 
       
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21C of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
       

                                             
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                    

                                               III. 
        
                                                                                 1
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds    that:    
                       
                                          SUMMARY 
                                                      
       1.      First National Community Bancorp (“FNCB” or “the Company”), the holding 
company of First National Community Bank located in Dunmore, Pennsylvania, materially 
understated the provision for other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI” or “losses”) for its 
investment securities portfolio in FNCB’s financial statements filed with its Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31, 2009 (“2009 Annual Report”) and quarterly reports 
on Form 10-Q for the first and second quarters of 2010.        
        
       2.      In 2009, FNCB’s investment securities portfolio included certain pooled trust 
preferred securities, and other securities.  Pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles 
(“GAAP”), FNCB was required to report in its financial statements filed with the Commission the 
amount of OTTI on the securities in its investment portfolio.  FNCB’s methodology for 
determining the amount of OTTI did not comply with GAAP and, as a result, FNCB understated 
OTTI for the relevant reporting periods.      
        
       3.      During 2009, FNCB’s former Principal Financial Officer, William Lance, was 
responsible for establishing and maintaining accounting policies and procedures to ensure that 
FNCB calculated OTTI in accordance with GAAP.  Lance, however, failed to establish and 
maintain the necessary policies and procedures and, as a result, he caused FNCB to record 
materially understated OTTI in its 2009 annual financial statement filed with the Commission.  
The material understatement of OTTI at year-end 2009 also resulted in FNCB reporting materially 
misstated OTTI in its quarterly reports for the first and second quarters of 2010.  Lance, however, 
had resigned from FNCB prior to the preparation and filing of the quarterly reports Form 10-Q for 
the period ended March 31, 2010 and June 30, 2010.  
  
       4.      On October 27, 2010, FNCB disclosed that the Company’s 2009 Annual Report 
and the financial statements filed for the quarters-ended March 31, 2010 and June 30, 2010, should 
no longer be relied upon.  FNCB further disclosed that the previously filed financial statements 
contained errors relating to, among other things, the accounting for OTTI on certain investment 
securities.  On December 2, 2011, over a year later, FNCB filed restated financial statements for 
the year-ended December 31, 2009 (“2009 Restatement”), which provided for additional pre-tax 
losses of $31.5 million, increasing the originally reported net loss before income taxes of $21.4 
million to $52.9 million.  FNCB also concluded that its disclosure controls and procedures and 
internal controls over financial reporting of OTTI losses during the relevant reporting period were 
materially deficient.     
        

                                                 
1
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offer of Settlement and are not binding on 
any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   

                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                                        

       5.      In the 2009 Restatement, FNCB increased OTTI losses by $14.4 million for a 
reported total of $20.6 million - more than 230 percent over the originally reported $6.2 million 
OTTI amount.  Approximately $13.6 million of the $14.4 million increase was attributed 
specifically to the flawed methodology used by FNCB for the original OTTI valuations.  
        
       6.      In August 2010, approximately two months before FNCB publically announced 
its intention to restate its financial statements, FNCB sold 100,000 shares of unregistered stock to 
a private investor.  The subscription agreement used in the sale incorporated by reference the 
materially misstated financial statements for year-end 2009 and the first quarter of 2010.   
        
       7.      As a result, FNCB violated several provisions of the federal securities laws, 
including the reporting, internal controls, and books and records provisions.  Lance was a cause of 
FNCB’s reporting, internal controls, and books and records violations with regard to the 2009 
Annual Report. 
                                                        
                                             RESPONDENTS 
                                                        
       8.      First National Community Bancorp Inc. (“FNCB”), the holding company of First 
National Community Bank, is located in Dunmore, Pennsylvania.  FNCB’s common stock is 
registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act, and currently 
trades under the symbol “FNCB” and is quoted on the OTCQB. 
        
       9.      William Lance (“Lance”) was the Principal Financial Officer (“PFO”) and 
Executive Vice President at FNCB in 2009.  Lance resigned from FNCB in February 2010.   
        
                                                   FACTS 
                                                        
       A.     FNCB’s Assets in 2009 Included a Portfolio of Investment Securities For  
               Which an Analysis of OTTI was Required Pursuant to GAAP.  
 
       10.    As of December 31, 2009, FNCB’s investment securities portfolio was valued at 
$273.6 million.  The portfolio was comprised of pooled trust preferred securities that were 
                                                           2
marketed as Preferred Term Securities, Ltd.  (“PreTSLs),     as well as U.S. Government agency 
securities, tax- exempt obligations of states and political subdivisions, government sponsored 
agency and private label collateralized mortgage obligations, r esidential mortg age - backed 
securities, and   corporate debt and equity securities.     

       11.     The PreTSLs in FNCB’s investment portfolio were reported as available-for-sale 
securities (“AFS”).  AFS are reported at fair value with net unrealized gains and losses included 

                                                 
2
       “PreTSLs” are a proprietary product developed and marketed by two broker-dealers.  They are 
collateralized debt obligations created by pooling and securitizing trust preferred securities issued by community 
and regional banks and thrifts, insurance companies, and/or real estate investment subsidiaries. 
 

                                                   3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                                                                                                  

                                                                                                           3
in accumulated other comprehensive income, which is a component of shareholders’ equity.  

When the fair value of FNCB’s PreTSLs declined below their amortized cost, FNCB was required 

to assess whether the decline in fair value was other than temporary.  GAAP requires that an OTTI 

loss be recognized in the statement of operations when the present value of cash flows expected to 
                                                                4
be collected from a security is below its amortized costs.         In other words, t o determin   e  whether  the 

decline  in fair value of its PreTSLs was    other  - than  - temporary, FNCB needed to assess whether 

these securities had experienced a credit loss as a result of a decrease in expected cash flows           to be 

received on the securities  .   To measure credit losses to be recogniz     ed in the statement of 

operations, GAAP requires      the holder of a security   to estimate expected future cash flows       

consider ing  all available information rel  evant   to the collectability of the security, including 
                                                                                                        5
information   about past events, current conditio    ns, and reasonable and supportable forecasts       .     

         

        12.      Banks and other financial institutions may retain consultants to create models to 

calculate the present value of expected cash flows which are used to estimate the amount of OTTI 

to be recognized for investment securities.  In order for the models used by valuation experts to 

measure OTTI in a manner consistent with GAAP, the selection of the assumptions to estimate 

expected future cash flows must be reasonable and supportable.  The work of a consultant does not 

relieve a reporting company or its management of the ultimate responsibility for accurately 

reporting the amount of OTTI for its investment securities.   

 

        B.      FNCB’s Methodology for Determining OTTI Losses on the PreTSLs Did Not 

                 Comply with GAAP. 

         

        13.     Lance was responsible for developing and implementing policies and procedures to 

ensure that FNCB recorded OTTI in accordance with GAAP.  Lance failed to do so.  Lance relied 

on OTTI calculations that were not based on reasonable and supportable assumptions in preparing 
                                                              6
the OTTI disclosures in FNCB’s 2009 Annual Report.              

                                                   
3
        ASC 320-10-25 and ASC 320-10-35.  In July 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued the 
FASB Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) as the single source of authoritative nongovernmental U.S. 
generally accepted accounting principles.  The Codification was effective for annual periods ending after September 
15, 2009.  All existing accounting standards documents were superseded.   
 
4
        ASC 320  - 10-35-33C .    
 
5
        AS C 320  - 10-35-33G . 
 
6
        Both prior to and during the time when Lance was supervising the preparation of FNCB’s 2009 Annual 
Report, the staff of the Commission’s Division of Corporation Finance questioned FNCB about its OTTI 
methodology, including the manner in which FNCB chose the assumptions on which it based its OTTI estimates.  In 
particular, in a letter to FNCB dated September 25, 2009, the staff asked FNCB, among other things, to identify all 
of the “key assumptions” that it used, including whether it considered “the specific collateral underlying each 
individual security” (emphasis in the original) and had “different estimates of deferrals and defaults for each 
security,” and explain how FNCB determined that the assumptions were appropriate and consistent with GAAP.  
Lance reviewed the comment letter and coordinated the preparation of FNCB’s response.  The Commission staff 
again wrote to FNCB, in January 2010, prior to Lance’s departure and before FNCB’s 2009 Annual Report had been 
filed, specifically raising concerns about FNCB’s practice of applying the same deferral and default rate to all of the 
 

                                                        4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                                                                                                  

                 
        14.     During 2009 and as of year-end 2009, FNCB used the services of two private 
valuation consultants, Valuation Firm A (“VFA”) and Valuation Firm B (“VFB”) to assist it in 
                                                                    7
estimating OTTI on the PreTSLs in its investment portfolio.           
 
        15 .     VFA was the vendor from       wh om  FNCB had purchased the PreSTL securities.            In 
2009,   VFA offered Lance a selection of pre     - determined assumption scenarios for use with its OTTI 
v aluation model, each representing a different combination of outcomes for, among other things, 
default and deferral rates, loss severity, prepayment speeds, and other factors that are to be taken 
into account in determining OTTI.  The scenarios ranged from            a scenario that resulted in little or 
no impairment (referred to as “Scenario 6,” which, among other things, assumed the lowest default 
rate and the highest recovery rate) to a scenario that yielded significant impairment.  However, it 
was Lance’s responsibility to select for each individual security in FNCB’s portfolio a set of 
assumptions or factors (whether a pre-determined scenario, such as those developed by VFA, or 
some other combination of factors that was appropriate to each security) to be used in measuring 
OTTI for each PreSTL held by FNCB.   
 
        16.      Instead of evaluating what would be reasonable and supportable cash flow 
assumptions for each security prior to each periodic report by appropriately considering the 
characteristics of each security, including the underlying collateral, changes in default and 
deferral rates, and other relevant criteria, Lance chose to apply a single valuation scenario 
provided by VFA – “Scenario 6” – to all of the PreSTLs held by FNCB.  According to Lance, 
Scenario 6 projected defaults based on the long-term historical loss rates for FDIC-insured 
banks, which Lance conceded was “obviously a very low number” and he acknowledged that 
“[l]osses were occurring at a higher rate at that point.”  Lance chose the scenario that yielded the 
least amount of impairment, but testified that he did so based on an expectation that bank failures 
and, therefore, default and deferral rates would not continue at the then-current levels for an 
extended period of time.  Lance did not document his rationale or why he believed such 
assumptions were reasonable and supportable.  Scenario 6, the scenario that Lance selected, was 
applied by VFA to model OTTI for all of the PreTSLs in FNCB’s portfolio as of year-end 2009.    
 
        17.      VFB also calculated OTTI for the PreTSLs held by FNCB at year-end 2009.  
VFB’s model relied upon unreasonable assumptions regarding future cash flows and the timing of 
the liquidation of the collateral related to issuers that had deferred or defaulted.  Lance did not 

                                                                                                                                                             
PreTSLs in FNCB’s portfolio, without regard to, among other things, differences in the collateral underlying each 
PreTSL and other individual characteristics of each security.  In the January 2010 letter, the Commission staff 
commented, “[W]e believe you must look at the specific collateral of each individual security to develop the credit 
deferral/default assumptions for your estimated cash flows and that simply using the same credit default assumption 
. . . for all of your securities is not a reasonable methodology consistent with the guidance.” 
 
7
        FNCB had used VFA to model the amount of impairment of the PreTSLs      since their purchase.  By mid-
2009, in response to questions raised by its regulators, FNCB sought the assistance of a second valuation expert to 
model OTTI impairment   for its securities investments.  FNCB considered both models in determining the amount of 
OTTI to record.  
   

                                                       5  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                                                                                                 

know, and never inquired about, the assumptions that VFB used to model the OTTI for the 
PreTSLs in FNCB’s investment portfolio and, for that reason, was unable to assess whether the 
assumptions used by VFB were reasonable in light of the particular circumstances, and the 
condition of the collateral underlying each, of the securities in question.   
        
       18.    VFB modelled OTTI for the PreTSLs in FNCB’s portfolio using assumptions that it 
chose and concluded that there was no material impairment for all but one of the PreTSLs.  VFB, 
however, calculated a material impairment for the security denominated “PreTSL-XXVIII” and 
provided Lance with a range of potential impairment for that security from $4.1 million to $1.1 
million.  Despite having failed to determine whether the assumptions used by VFB were 
reasonable and supportable, Lance caused FNCB to record the lowest amount of impairment on the 
range: $1.1 million.    
        
       C.     FNCB Recorded Materially Misstated OTTI at Year-End 2009                    
              and Lance Was a Cause of That Failure. 
        
       19.    Lance relied on the analyses provided by VFA and VFB and caused FNCB to 
record OTTI that had been estimated using models that did not include reasonable and supportable 
assumptions and therefore did not estimate OTTI credit losses consistent with GAAP, despite the 
concerns raised by the Commission staff.  As a result, FNCB materially understated OTTI for the 
PreTSLs in FNCB’s portfolio as of year-end 2009.  In the 2009 Restatement, FNCB re-calculated 
estimated future cash flows based on revised assumptions consistent with GAAP requirements and 
as a result recorded an additional OTTI loss of approximately $13.6 million for the PreTSL 
securities, including an additional loss of approximately $5.9 million for PreTSL-XXVIII.  
        
       20.    Lance resigned from FNCB on or about February 11, 2010, a month before FNCB 
filed its 2009 Annual Report with the Commission on March 10, 2010.  However, he was 
primarily responsible for compiling FNCB’s 2009 year-end financial statements that were filed 
with the Annual Report, including with respect to the methodology and calculation of OTTI.  
Lance did not participate in the preparation of FNCB’s quarterly reports for the first and second 
quarters of 2010.   
        
       D.     FNCB Materially Misstated OTTI in its Quarterly Reports for the First and  
              Second Quarters of 2010. 
        
       21.    FNCB materially misstated OTTI in its Form 10-Qs for the quarters ended March 
31, 2010 and June 30, 2010, as a result of the same accounting errors, including the flawed OTTI 
methodology, and books and records and internal control deficiencies that affected the 2009 
Annual Report.  
        
       22.    For the periods ending March 31 and June 30, 2010, the application of FNCB’s 
revised OTTI methodology for the PreTSLs resulted in increased impairment losses.  However, 
FNCB determined that certain of the first quarter losses reflected impairments that had existed as 
of the fourth quarter of 2009.  Accordingly, in its restatement, FNCB recorded a portion of the 
increased losses for the first quarter of 2010 in its restated 2009 Annual Report, rather than in the 

                                               6  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                                                                                                  

restated quarterly report for the first quarter of 2010.   Consequently, net OTTI losses for the first 
quarter of 2010 as restated decreased from $0.9 million to $0.3 million.  For the second quarter of 
2010, however, net OTTI losses as restated increased from $0.6 million to $2.6 million.    
        
       23.    FNCB also revised its prior financial disclosures regarding internal control over 
financial reporting to reflect FNCB’s conclusion that internal control over financial reporting were 
not effective at the time the original financial statements were filed, and that FNCB had failed to 
keep accurate books and records and implement policies and procedures to enable it to prepare 
financial statements for these periods that complied with GAAP.   
 
       E.     FNCB Provided Materially Misstated Financial Statements to an Investor  
              Who Purchased FNCB Stock. 
 
       24.    On August 4, 2010, FNCB sold 100,000 shares of unregistered common stock at 
$3.60 per share to a private investor for a total purchase price of $360,000.  The subscription 
agreement for this sale of securities expressly incorporated by reference the materially misstated 
2009 annual and first quarter 2010 financial statements.   
         
                                            VIOLATIONS 
 
      25.     As a result of the conduct described above: 
 
              a.      FNCB violated Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(a)], 
      and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder [17 C.F.R. §§ 240.12b-20, 240.13a-1, and 
      240.13a-13], which require every issuer of a security registered pursuant to Section 12 of 
      the Exchange Act to file with the Commission information, documents, and annual and 
      quarterly reports as the Commission may require, and mandate that periodic reports 
      contain such further material information as may be necessary to make the required 
      statements not misleading.  
        
              b.      Lance caused FNCB’s violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act [15 
      U.S.C. § 78m (a)], and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-1 thereunder [17 C.F.R. §§ 240.12b-20 and 
      240.13a-1] by failing to ensure that FNCB’s OTTI estimates were based on reasonable 
      and supportable assumptions and by causing FNCB to record materially understated OTTI 
      for a portion of its investment portfolio in its 2009 Annual Report.  
               
              c.      FNCB also violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.  
      § 78m(b)(2)(A)] which requires reporting companies to make and keep books, records, 
      and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their transactions 
      and dispositions of their assets.  
               
              d.      Lance caused FNCB’s violation of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange 
      Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)] by failing to ensure the FNCB made and kept books, 
      records, and accounts which in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflected the amount 
      of OTTI to be recorded at year-end 2009.  

                                                7  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

                                                                                                  

        
              e.      FNCB also violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.                          
      § 78m(b)(2)(B)], which requires all reporting companies to devise and maintain a system 
      of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that 
      transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in 
      accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 
        
              f.       Lance caused FNCB’s violation of Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange 
      Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B)] by failing to devise and maintain a system of internal 
      accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that FNCB’s financial 
      statements, and, in particular its valuation of OTTI, were prepared in accordance with 
      generally accepted accounting principles. 
        
              g.      With respect to FNCB’s sale of stock, FNCB violated Section 17(a)(2) of 
      the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) [15 U.S.C. § 77q(a)(2)], which makes it 
      unlawful for anyone in the offer or sale of securities, to obtain money or property by 
      means of any untrue statement of a material fact or any omission to state a material fact 
      necessary in order to make the statements made, in the light of the circumstances under 
      which they were made, not misleading. 
        
                                               IV. 
                                                 
                                       UNDERTAKING 
 
       Lance has agreed to the following undertaking: 
 
       Lance shall, within ten (10) days of the entry of the Order, make a payment in the nature of 
a penalty in the amount of $20,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  If timely payment 
is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717.  Such payment shall be 
made in one of the following ways:   
 
              1.      Lance may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will 
       provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request; 
 
              2.      Lance may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through 
       the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
 
              3.      Lance may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States 
       postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and hand-
       delivered or mailed to:  
 
       Enterprise Services Center 
       Accounts Receivable Branch 
       HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
       6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 

                                                8  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

                                                                                                  

       Oklahoma City, OK 73169. 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
       Lance as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a 
       copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to: 
        
       Antonia Chion, Associate Director 
       Division of Enforcement 
       Securities and Exchange Commission  
       100 F Street, N.E. 
       Washington, DC 20549-5720. 
        
       In determining whether to accept Lance’s Offer, the Commission has considered this 
undertaking.  Lance agrees that, if he fails to timely comply with this undertaking, the Division of 
Enforcement may petition the Commission to reopen this matter to determine whether additional 
sanctions are appropriate. 
                                                 
                                               V. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in the Respondents’ respective Offers of Settlement. 
        
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
  
       A.     Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and Section 21C of the Exchange Act, 
FNCB cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of 
Sections 17(a)(2) of the Securities Act and Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder.   
        
       B.     Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Lance cease and desist from 
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-1 thereunder.  
        
       C.     FNCB shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money penalty in 
the amount of $175,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  If timely payment is not 
made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717.  Payment must be made in one 
of the following ways:   
 
               1.     FNCB may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will 
       provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
 
               2.     FNCB may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
       through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
 

                                                9  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

                                                                                                 

              3.      FNCB may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States 
       postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and  hand-
       delivered or mailed to:  
 
       Enterprise Services Center 
       Accounts Receivable Branch 
       HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
       6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
       Oklahoma City, OK 73169. 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
       FNCB as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a 
       copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to: 
        
       Antonia Chion, Associate Director 
       Division of Enforcement 
       Securities and Exchange Commission 
       100 F Street, N.E. 
       Washington, DC 20549-5720.  
        
        
       By the Commission. 
        
        
        
                                            Brent J. Fields 
                                            Secretary 
           

                                              10   
