---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                       Before the 

                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
 
 
 SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
 Release No.  9772 / May 15, 2015 
 
 SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
 Release No.  74976 / May 15, 2015 
 
 ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
 Release No.  3656 / May 15, 2015 
 
 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
 File No. 3-15945 
  
 
 
 In the Matter of                           ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND 
                                            IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS, 
      THOMAS A. NEELY, JR.                  CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER, AND 
                                            PENALTIES PURSUANT TO   
 Respondent.                                SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT OF 
                                            1933 AND SECTION 21C OF THE 
                                            SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                                           I. 
 
       On June 25, 2014, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) instituted 
 proceedings pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 
 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Thomas A. Neely, Jr. 
 (“Neely” or  “Respondent”).   
                                           II. 
 
       Respondent has submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has 
 determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings 
 brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party and without 
 admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission's jurisdiction over him and 
 the subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of 
 this Order Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions, Cease- and-Desist Order and 
 Penalties Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21C of the Securities 
 Exchange Act of 1934, as set forth below.
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1 
                                                                               that: 
 
                                          SUMMARY 
 
       This proceeding arises from the misconduct of Thomas A. Neely, Jr., (“Neely”) and others  
while employed by Regions Bank and its parent holding corporation, Regions Financial Corporation 
(“Regions”).  During the quarter ended March 31, 2009, in accordance wit h Regions’ policies and 
procedures, personnel within Regions Bank’s Special Asset Department (“SAD”) initiated the 
procedures to place approximately $168 million of certain commercial loans (the “Loans”) into non-
accrual status.  In March 2009, Neely and others, without adequate justification and supporting 
documentation, took steps to keep the Loans in accrual status.  Such steps by Neely and others to 
evade existing policies and procedures prevented Regions from appropriately measuring impairment 
in accordanc e with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”), rendered Regions’ 
financial statements for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 materially misstated and not prepared in 
conformity wit h GAAP, and evidenced a failure by Regions to maintain a system of internal 
accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that the Loans were recorded as 
necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP. 
 
                                        RESPONDENT 
 
       1.     Thomas A. Neely, Jr., 54, was formerly an Executive Vice President for Regions’ 
Risk Management Credit Division where he reported to the Chief Credit  Officer .  Beginning in 
July 2009, Neely also oversaw Regions’ Risk Analytics Group.  T ogether with the titular head of 
SAD, Neely functionally controlled Regions’ SAD.  Neely’s em   ployment with Regions concluded 
on November 30, 2010.   
         
                                      RELATED ENTITY 
 
       2.     Regions Financial Corporation is a Delaware financial holding corporation 
headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama.  Regions conducts its banking operations through its 
subsidiary Regions Bank, which is a member of the Federal Reserve System.  Regions’ common 
stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Act and trades 
on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “RF.”  As of December 31, 2013, Regions had 
approximately $117 billion in assets. 
                              

                                                           
1
       The fin dings herein  are m ade pursuant to Res pondent’s  Offer of Settlement and are not binding on 
any oth er person  or entity in this   or  any other proceeding.  
 

                                                2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                  
                                             FACTS 
 
                             Regions’ Tracking of Non-Accrual Loans 
 
       3.       Throughout the relevant time-period, including the quarter ended March 31, 2009, 
Regions tracked and recorded its non-performing loans (“NPLs”) as part of both internal 
performance metrics and its regular financial reporting.  NPLs at Regions primarily consisted of 
loans in a non-accrual status.2
                              
 
       4.       Regions’ policies and procedures required that loans be placed on non-accrual status 
when it was determined that payment of all contractual principal and interest was in doubt, or the 
loan was past due 90 days or more as to principal and interest, unless the loan was well-secured and 
in the process of collection.  When a loan was placed in non-accrual status, uncollected interest 
accrued during the current year would be reversed and reduce Regions’ interest income.  In addition, 
placing a loan on non-accrual status served as a trigger for Regions to conside r whether the specific 
loan was impaired and thus how to determine an allowance for loan and lease losses in accordance 
with GAAP. 
 
       5.       Regions’ policies and procedures provided that the decision to recommend a loan for 
non-accrual status was to be made by Relationship Managers (“RMs”) within SAD.  RMs were 
responsible for reviewing loan file details, monitoring payments, and communicating with 
borrowers.  Under Regions’ policies and procedures, RMs typically had the greatest degree of 
knowledge within SAD of the relevant loan status and a borrower’s ability to make payments of 
principal and interest. 
 
       6.       Regions’ policies and procedures required that when RMs initiated an action to 
place a loan on non-accrual status, they would submit a supporting form to their regional manager 
that showed their conclusion and justified how they determined a loan should be placed in non- 
accrual status.  Regions’ policies and procedures then provided for the regional manager to conduct a 
detailed review of the loan with the responsible RM, after which, if appropriate,  the app roval was 
granted by the regional manager. 
 
       7.       Once approval for non-accrual classification was granted by the regional manager, 
Regions’ policies and procedures specified that any subsequent exception to classifying the loan in 
non-accrual status was required to be fully documented and justified on an approved 
“Recommendation to Continue Accrual Status” form. 
 
       8.       Once the RM and the regional manager recommended that a loan should be moved 
to non-accrual status, it was then listed by SAD managers in the Asset Quality Forecast report 
(“AQF”).  The AQF identified which loans had been recommended by the RM and the regional 
manager for being placed on non-accrual status, and it forecasted charge-offs and non-performing 
assets for the quarter. 
 

                                                           
2
       GAAP does not provide guidance regarding placing loans on a non-accrual status. 
                                                 3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       9.     The AQF was a principal forecasting tool of SAD that was prepared under the 
direction of the Respondent and others . The AQF was discussed weekly at meetings regularly 
conducted and attended by the Respondent, the head of SAD , and the Chief Credit Officer.  
Respondent and others also regularly discussed the NPL forecast in presentations to Regions’ 
Executive Council, which consisted of, among others, Regions’ Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) 
and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), in discussing current trends in NPLs. 
 
        10.    SAD, under the control of Respondent and others, had authority over the preparation, 
content, and dissemination of the AQF.  Once a loan recommended for non-accrual status by the 
RMs and regional managers was included on the AQF, the responsible RMs would complete 
information required for a processing list and submit it to Regions’ Risk Analytics Group.  The 
processing list was designed as an electronic record documenting the specific actions for individual 
loans to be formally taken by Regions and reflected in Regions’ accounting systems.  Following 
Neely’s approval, his subordinates would submit the processing list for the identified loans to be 
recorded as non-accrual in Regions’ accounting systems. 
 
                      Respondent’s Misclassificat ion of Loans and Evasion 
          of Regions’ Policies and Procedures during the Quarter Ended March 31, 2009  
 
       11.     As of the beginning of March 2009, Regions’ AQF identified NPLs of 
approximately $1.6 billion.  Neely and others had discussed between themselves the then current 
AQF and NPLs.  The AQF and related NPLs tracking for the quarter were made available to 
Regions’ CEO and CFO. 
 
       12.     On or about March 13, 2009, Neely and others in senior management were 
informed by a subordinate that  an error had resulted in an underreporting of NPLs by an amount 
approximating $200 million, or 13% of the quarter end NPL target that had been communicated to  
Regions’ CEO and CFO. 
 
       13.     On or about March 17, 2009, the Chief Credit Officer was actively tracking and 
calculating how NPLs could be decreased by approximately $200 million so as to more closely 
approach the previously identified NPL target. 
 
        14.    On or about March 17, 2009, Neely suggested to the Chief Credit Officer and the 
head of SAD that a $6.8 million commercial loan be recorded as an accruing loan despite being 
recommended for non-accrual status by the assigned RM and regional manager.  This loan was 
prevented by Neely, without objection from the head of SAD and the Chief Credit Officer, from 
being placed on the AQF or a processing list and was classified by Regions as being in accrual status 
as of March 31, 2009.  Contrary to Regions’ policies and procedures, Neely and others prevented the 
subject loan from being classified as non-accrual without any documentation or justification. 
 
        15.    On or about March 18, 2009, Neely and others instructed subordinates to take 
specific actions to re move from the AQF approximately $150 million of commercial loans that had 
been recommended by the assigned RMs and regional managers, in accordance with Regions’ 
policies and pr  ocedures, as being c lassified as non-accrual.  Neely and others issued such 
instructions to their subordinates without any documentation or justification supporting the 

                                               4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

removal of these loans from the AQF.  The head of   SAD thereafter was m ade aware of and did not 
object to this action by Neely and others.  The ultimate effect of these instructions was the 
improper classification of the Loans, representing approximately $168 million, as being in accrual 
status.  Ha d Regions classified the relevant loans on non-accrual status in accordance with its 
policies, it would have prompted a determination that the identified loans were impaired in 
accordance with GAAP.  That determination would have resulted in Regions recording a higher 
allowance for loan and lease losses. 
 
       16.      On or about March 23, 2009, the Chief Credit  Officer and Neely attended a meeting 
at which they provided inaccurate information regarding NPLs for the quarter to certain senior 
executives, including Regions’ CFO. 
 
       17.     In taking the undocumented and unjustified steps above, Neely  and others 
collectively circumvented Regions’ policies and procedures regarding the classification of loans 
into non-accrual status.  The actions by Neely and others directly resulted in the improper 
classification of the Loans pursuant to Regions’ policies, and further prevented Regions from 
appropriately determining those Loans were impaired in accordance with GAAP at the quarter 
ended March 31, 2009. 
 
       18.      In accordance with Regions’ policies and procedures, the Loans were required to 
have been classified in non-accrual status at the quarter ended March 31, 2009.  Had Regions 
classified the Loans in non-accrual status in compliance with its policies, it would have prompted a 
determination that the Loans were impaired in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting 
Standard No. 114, Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan (“SFAS No. 114”).    3
                                                                                          
 
              Impact of Respondent’s Misconduct on Regions’ Financial State ments 
 
       19.      Respondent circumvented Reg  ions’ internal accounting control s through his  
recording and reporting of the Loans in a manner that was not in accorda nce with Regions’ policies 
and procedures.  As a result, Regions failed to m aintain a system of internal accounting controls 
sufficient to pr ovide reasonable ass urances  that the  Loans were recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP.  
 
       20.      Respondent’s misconduct resulted in Regions’ failing to make and keep books, 
records and accounts in reasonable detail, which accurately and fairly reflected the Loans.  Further , 
Regions’ accounts were made inaccurate through the misconduct of the Respondent. 
 
        21.     The books, records and accounts reflecting the Loans were incorporated into 
 Regions’ consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.    As a result of 
 failing to properly account for the Loans in accordance with GAAP, for the quarter ended March 
 31, 2009, Regions’ income before income taxes was overstated by $16 million, its net income 
 applicable to common shareholders was overstated by approximately $11 million, and its earnings 
                                                           
3
       See SFAS No. 114, which states that “a loan is impaired when, based on current information and 
events, it is probabl e that a creditor will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms 
of the loan agreement” and it requires lenders to measure impairment based on the present value of expected 
cash flows or an observable fair value of the collateral (i.e., an appraisal) if the loan is collateral  dependent. 

                                                 5 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 per common share was overstated by approximately $.02 per share. 
 
       22.      The above misstatements were included in Regions’ April 21, 2009 press release 
included in its Form 8-K dated April 21, 2009 and filed with the Commission on April 21, 2009, in 
its exhibits to its Form 8-K dated May 20, 2009 and filed with the Commission on May 20, 2009, 
in its March 31, 2009 Form 10-Q filed May 11, 2009, and two subsequent amendments to its 
March 31, 2009 Form 10-Q filed on May 13, 2009 and June 9, 2009, in a Form S-4 filed on May 
20, 2009 and in three subsequent amendments to this registration statement on May 22, 2009, June 
4, 2009, and June 9, 2009, and in a Form S-8 filed on August 28, 2009 (collectively, the “Public 
Filings”). 
 
       23.    The Public Filings did not include other information as was necessary to ensure that 
the statements made in the Public Filings were not, under the circumstances, materially misleading. 
 
       24.    The Respondent, in a sub-certification letter signed in April 2009 in connection with 
the preparation of the reports on Form 10-Q above, misled Regions’ Controlle  r and Chief Accounting 
Officer and its Director of Internal Audit, both accountants, regarding Regions’ books, records, 
accounts, and internal controls. 
 
                                         VIOLATIONS 
 
       25.      Section 17(a) of the Securities Act prohibits any person, in the offer or sale of any 
security, from using the means and instrumen talities of interstate commerce and of the mails, direct ly 
or indirectly, to: (a) employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud; (b) obtain money or property 
by means of any untrue statement of a material fact or any omission to state a material fact 
necessary in order to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which they 
were made, not misleading; or (c) engage in any transaction, practice, or course of business which 
operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon the purchaser. 
 
       26.      Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder prohibit fraudulent 
conduct in connection with the purchase or sale of securities. 
 
       27.      Section 20(b) of the Exchange Act makes it unlawful for any person, directly or 
indirectly, to do any act or thing which it would be unlawful for such person to do under the 
Exchange Act or any rule or regulation thereunder through or by means of any other person. 
 
       28.      Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-11, 13a-13 and 12b-20 thereunder, 
requires every issuer of a secur ity registered pursuant t o Section 12 of the Exchange Act to file 
with the Commission information, documents, and current and quarterly reports  as the 
Commission may require, and mandate that current and periodic reports  contain  such  further 
material information as may be necessary to make the required statements not misleading. 
 
       29.       Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires reporting companies to make and 
keep books, recor ds and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their 
transactions and dispositions of their ass ets. 
 

                                                6 
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

       30.     Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires  all repo rting co  mpanies to devise 
and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances 
that transactions are recorded as necessary to per mit preparation of financial statements in 
accordance with GAAP.    
 
       31.     Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act prohibits any person from knowingly 
circumventing or knowingly failing to implement a system of internal accounting controls, and from 
knowingly falsifying any book, record, or account, required under Section 13(b)(2) of the Exchange 
Act. 
 
       32.     Rule 13b2-1 of the Exchange Act prohibits any person from directly or indirectly 
falsifying or causing to be falsified any book, record or account subject to Section 13(b)(2)(A) of 
the Exchange Act. 
 
       33.     Rule 13b2-2 of the Exchange Act prohibits, among other things, officers of issuers 
from directly or indirectly making or causing to be made a materially false or misleading 
statement, or omitting to state any material fact necess  ary in order to make statements made, in 
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading to an 
accountant in connection with any quarterly review  or the preparation or filing of any document or 
report required to be filed with the Comm ission. 
 
       34.     As a result of the Respondent’s misclassification of Loans as in accrual status as of 
the quarter ended March 31, 2009, the Respondent violated Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, 
which prohibits fraudulent conduct in the offer or sale of securities, and Exchange Act Section 
10(b) and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibits fraudulent conduct in connection with the 
purchase or sale of securities. 
 
       35.     As a result of the conduct described above, the Respondent acted through Regions to 
make material misrepresentations in the Public Filings, and as a result, violated Sections 20(b) and 
10(b) of the Exchange Act, and Rule 10b-5 thereunder. 
 
       36.     As a result of the conduct described above, the Respondent caused Regions to 
violate Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-11, 13a-13 and 12b-20 thereunder 
because its financial statements for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, included in current and 
quarterly reports, failed to record the Loans in conformity with GAAP. 
 
       37.     As a result of the conduct described above, the Respondent caused Regions to 
violate Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act because it did not keep books, records or accounts 
that accurately reflected the Loans. 
        
       38.      As a result of the conduct described above, the Respondent caused Regions to 
violate Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act b ecause it failed to maintain a sy stem of internal 
accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that the Loans were recorded as 
necessary to permit preparation of its financial statements in accordance with GAAP. 
 

                                                7 
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

       39.    As a result of the conduct described above, the Respondent violated Section 
13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act when he knowingly circumvented Regions’ system of internal 
accounting controls and knowingly falsified Regions’ books, records, and accounts related to the 
Loans. 
 
       40.    As a result of the conduct described above, the Respondent violated Rule 13b2- 1 of 
the Exchange Act by directly or indirectly falsifying or causing to be falsified Regions’ books, 
records and  accounts  relating  to the  Loans, whi ch were subject to Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the 
Exchange Act. 
 
        41.     As a result of the conduct described above, the Respondent violated Rule 13b2- 2 of 
 the Exchange Act when he directly or indirectly made or caused to be made materially false or 
 misleading state ments, or omitted to state material facts necessary in order to m ake statements 
 made, in light of the circumstances under which such statem ents were made, not misleading to 
 accountants in connection with the pr eparation or filing of docum ents and reports which were 
 required to be filed with the Commission. 
 
                                                IV. 
 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in the Respondent’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
        A.      Respondent Neely cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
 any future violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, including 
 committing or causing any such violations directly or indirectly through or by means of any other 
 person, as prohibited by Section 20(b) of the Exchange Act, and cease and desist from committing 
 or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and 
 Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B), and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a- 
 11, 13a-13, 13b2-1, and 13b2-2 thereunder. 
 
        B.      Respondent Neely be, and hereby is prohibited for a period of five (5) years from 
 entry of this Order, from acting as an officer or director of any issuer that has a class of securities 
 registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act or that is required to file reports pursuant to 
 Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. 
 
        C.      Respondent Neely shall pay a civi l money penalty in the amount of $100,000 to the 
 Securities and Exchange Commission.  Payment shall be made in the following installments: 
 $10,000 is due on the first of the month following entry of this Order, followed by $5,000 within the 
 next 60 day, $5,000 within an additional 60 days, $5,000 within an additional 60 days, and the 
 remaining $75,000 within one year from the issuance of this Order.   If any payment is not made by 
 the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire outstanding balance, plus any additional 
 interest accrued pursuant to 31 U.S.C . § 3717, shall be due and payable immediately, without 
 further application.  Payment must be made in one of the following ways: 
 

                                                8 
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

               (1)    Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
               will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request; 
               (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
               through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or 
               (3)    Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
               States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
               Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to: 
 
                             Enterprise Services Center 
                             Accounts Receivable Branch 
                             HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                             6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                             Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
        Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Thomas A. Neely, Jr. as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these 
proceedings; a cop y of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to M. Graham 
Loomis, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 950 East Paces Ferry 
Road, N.E., Atlanta,  GA 30326-1382. 
 
         
        By the Commission . 
 
 
 
                                           Brent J. Fields 
                                           Secretary 
 

                                               9 
 
