---------------------Page 1---------------------

 

                         UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                   Before the 
                  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 9917 / September 18, 2015 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 75947 / September 18, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3699 / September 18, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16339 
 
                                      ORDER  MAKING FINDINGS AND 
In the Matter of                      IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS  AND A 
                                      CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER  PURSUANT 
 JOHN BRINER, ESQ.,                   TO SECTION  8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT 
 DIANE DALMY,  ESQ.,                  OF 1933 AND SECTION S 4C AND 21C OF 
 DE JOYA GRIFFITH, LLC ,              THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 
 ARTHUR DE JOYA, CPA,                 1934, AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
 JASON GRIFFITH, CPA,              COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE 
 CHRIS WHETMAN,  CPA,                                             
 PHILIP ZHANG,  CPA,                         
 M&K CPAS, PLLC,                                          
 MATT MANIS,  CPA, 
 JON RIDENOUR, CPA, and 
 BEN ORTEGO , CPA, 
 
Respondent s. 
 
 
 
 
                                          
                                        
 
      On January 15, 2015, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deeming 
it appropriate, instituted public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings pursuant to 
Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice 
against De Joya Griffith, LLC (“De Joya”), Arthur De Joya, CPA, Jason Griffith, CPA (“Griffith”), 
and Philip Zhang, CPA (“Zhang”) (together, “Respondents”).  
 

 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 

                                                II. 
                                                  
       Respondents have submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”), which the Commission 
has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings 
brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without 
admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and 
the subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of 
this Order, as set forth below. 
 
                                               III. 
                                                  
                                                                                1
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offer, the Commission finds    that:  
 
                                        RESPONDENTS 

       1.      De Joya is a registered public accounting firm based in Henderson, Nevada.  De 
Joya issued audit reports for nine issuers, as further described below.  For all relevant times, Arthur 
De Joya, Griffith, and Zhang were partners of De Joya. 

       2.      Arthur De Joya, 48, of Las Vegas, Nevada, is a CPA licensed in the state of 
Nevada, a partner of De Joya, and has served as a managing partner of De Joya. 

       3.      Griffith, 37, of Las Vegas, Nevada, is a CPA licensed in the state of Nevada, a 
partner of De Joya, and was a managing partner of De Joya. 

       4.      Zhang, 40, of Las Vegas, Nevada, is a CPA licensed in the state of Nevada and was 
 a partner of De Joya. 

                        RELEVANT ENTITIES AND INDIVIDUALS 

       5.      John Briner (“Briner”), 35, is an attorney and a Canadian citizen who resides in 
Vancouver, British Columbia.  Briner’s law firm was MetroWest Law Corporation (“MetroWest”).  
Briner also controlled Jervis Explorations Inc. (“Jervis”), a British Columbia corporation.  In 2010, 
to resolve a Commission action against him alleging a pump-and-dump and market manipulation 
scheme, Briner consented to the entry of a federal court judgment that enjoined him from violating 
the antifraud and securities registration provisions of the federal securities laws; barred him for five 
years from participating in penny stock offerings; and ordered him to disgorge ill-gotten gains of 
$52,488.32 plus prejudgment interest and pay a civil penalty of $25,000.  SEC v. Golden Apple Oil 
and Gas, Inc., et al., 09-Civ-7580 (S.D.N.Y.) (HB).  The Commission subsequently suspended 
Briner from appearing or practicing before it as an attorney, with a right to apply for reinstatement 
after five years.  John Briner, Exchange Act Release No. 63371, 2010 WL 4783445 (Nov. 24, 
2010). 

       6.      Diane Dalmy (“Dalmy”), 58, is an attorney who resides in Denver, Colorado and is 

                                                 
       1
         The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                                2 
                                                  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 

admitted to practice law in Colorado.  Dalmy issued opinion letters for the issuers identified below. 

       7.      Jervis is a British Columbia corporation whose sole director is John Briner.  Jervis 
purportedly sold certain British Columbia mineral claims to each of the issuers, further described 
below. 

       8.      La Paz Mining Corp. (“La Paz”) is a Nevada corporation organized in November 
2011.  On July 19, 2012, La Paz filed a Form S-1 registration statement with the Commission 
seeking to register management’s common shares for resale in a $20,000 public offering.  On 
September 25, 2012, La Paz filed an amendment to its Form S-1 registration statement.  La Paz’s 
registration statement states that it has its principal offices in Peoria, Arizona. 
        
       9.      Tuba City Gold Corp. (“Tuba City”) is a Nevada corporation organized in June 
2012.  On January 2, 2013, Tuba City filed a Form S-1 registration statement with the Commission 
seeking to register management’s common shares for resale in a $12,000 public offering.  Its Form 
S-1 states that it has its principal offices in Dundas, Ontario, Canada. 
 
       10.    Braxton Resources Inc. (“Braxton”) is a Nevada corporation organized in May 
2012.  On January 2, 2013, Braxton filed a Form S-1 registration statement with the Commission 
seeking to register management’s common shares for resale in a $24,000 public offering.  Its Form 
S-1 states that it has its principal offices in Peoria, Arizona.   
 
       11.    Clearpoint Resources Inc. (“Clearpoint”) is a Nevada corporation organized in 
May 2012.  On January 2, 2013, Clearpoint filed a Form S-1 registration statement with the 
Commission seeking to register management’s common shares for resale in a $16,000 public 
offering.  Its Form S-1 states that it has its principal offices in Peoria, Arizona.   
 
       12.    Gold Camp Explorations Inc. (“Goldcamp”) is a Nevada corporation organized in 
June 2012.  On January 2, 2013, Goldcamp filed a Form S-1 registration statement with the 
Commission seeking to register management’s common shares for resale in a $10,000 public 
offering.  Its Form S-1 states that it has its principal offices in St. Alberta, Alberta, Canada.   
 
       13.    Gaspard Mining Inc. (“Gaspard”) is a Nevada corporation organized in May 
2012.  On January 25, 2013, Gaspard filed a Form S-1 registration statement with the Commission 
seeking to register management’s common shares for resale in a $20,000 public offering.  Its Form 
S-1 states that it has its principal offices in Ocala, Florida.   
 
       14.    Coronation Mining Corp. (“Coronation”) is a Nevada corporation organized in 
May 2012.  On January 25, 2013, Coronation filed a Form S-1 registration statement with the 
Commission seeking to register management’s common shares for resale in a $30,000 public 
offering.  Its Form S-1 states that it has its principal offices in Ocala, Florida.   
 
       15.    Jewel Explorations Inc. (“Jewel”) is a Nevada corporation organized in May 
2012.  On January 25, 2013, Jewel filed a Form S-1 registration statement with the Commission 
seeking to register management’s common shares for resale in a $20,000 public offering.  Its Form 
S-1 states that it has its principal offices in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.   
 

                                                3 
                                                  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 

       16.    Canyon Minerals Inc. (“Canyon”) is a Nevada corporation organized in May 
2012.  On January 25, 2013, Canyon filed a Form S-1 registration statement with the Commission 
seeking to register management’s common shares for resale in a $24,000 public offering.  Its Form 
S-1 states that it has its principal offices in Salt Lake City, Utah. 
        
          RESPONDENTS CONDUCTED MATERIALLY DEFICIENT AUDITS 

       Background 

       17.    Beginning in or about November 2011, Briner contacted De Joya to conduct audits 
of nine issuers’ financial statements that were to be included in Form S-1 registration statements.  
Zhang was the engagement partner for audits of Tuba City, Braxton, Clearpoint, Goldcamp, 
Gaspard, Coronation, Jewel, and Canyon (collectively, the “Issuers”).  Arthur De Joya was the 
engagement quality review partner for audits of Clearpoint and Gaspard.  Griffith (together with 
Zhang and Arthur De Joya, the “De Joya Partners”) was the engagement quality review partner for 
audits of La Paz, Tuba City, Braxton, Goldcamp, Coronation, Jewel, and Canyon. 

       18.    The De Joya Partners knew that Briner did the accounting and created the financial 
statements to be used in the Form S-1 registration statements for each of the Issuers.  The De Joya 
Partners also knew that Briner maintained all of the Issuers’ purported funds “in trust” in an 
account Briner controlled (the “Master Trust Account”). 

       19.    Briner and his assistant were the exclusive contacts between De Joya and each 
Issuer’s officer.  The De Joya Partners did not directly communicate with any of the Issuers’ sole 
officers.  The De Joya Partners knew that Briner provided all of the information concerning the 
Issuers and all of the supporting evidence for their audits.   

       20.    The Issuers two largest transactions consisted of the officer’s purchase of Issuer 
stock for $30,000 and the Issuer’s purchase of British Columbia mineral claims for between $7,500 
and $8,500 from Jervis. 

       21.    Zhang conducted the Issuers’ audits, including auditing the above transactions, and 
consented to the inclusion of De Joya’s audit report in each of the Issuers’ Form S-1 registration 
statements filed with the Commission.  De Joya was paid a total of $37,500 in fees for the audits, 
including the fee for auditing of La Paz.  Each audit report stated that “[w]e conducted our audit in 
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United 
States)” and that the financial statements present the Issuers’ financial position “in conformity with 
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.”  As described below, the audit was so deficient that 
it amounted to no audit at all, and the De Joya Partners ignored red flags.  

       Respondents Failed to Detect Red Flags in Accepting 
       and Continuing with the Issuers as Clients 

       22.    Under PCAOB standard QC Section 20 (System of Quality Control for a CPA 
Firm’s Accounting and Auditing Practice) (“QC 20”), “[p]olicies and procedures should be 
established for deciding whether to accept or continue a client relationship” and “[s]uch policies 
and procedures should provide the firm with reasonable assurance that the likelihood of association 

                                                4 
                                                 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 

                                                                        2
with a client whose management lacks integrity is minimized” (at .14).   

       23.    Under PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 12 (Identifying and Assessing Risks of 
Material Misstatement) (“AS 12”), auditors should “evaluate whether information obtained from 
the client acceptance and retention evaluation process or audit planning activities is relevant to 
identifying risks of material misstatement” (¶ 41). 

       24.    Additionally, under PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 7 (Engagement Quality 
Review) (“AS 7”), among other things, engagement quality review partners, should “evaluate the 
significant judgments made by the engagement team,” (¶ 9) including “consideration of the firm’s 
recent engagement experience with the company and risks identified in connection with the firm’s 
client acceptance and retention process” (¶ 10 a.). 

       25.    Finally, auditors must meet PCAOB standard AU Section 230 (Due Professional 
Care in the Performance of Work) (“AU 230”), which requires that auditors “exercise professional 
skepticism” (at .07), “consider the competency and sufficiency of the evidence” (at .08), and 
“neither assume[] that management is dishonest nor assume[] unquestioned honesty” (at .09). 

       26.    De Joya’s client acceptance policies and procedures in effect at the time it accepted 
the Issuers as clients required very little.  De Joya’s policy instructed its staff to “confirm 
individuals” and, if there was something to report, to “summarize findings, site [sic] sources, and 
email Partner.”  In practice, such check consisted of a simple Internet search.     

       27.    Zhang failed to sufficiently question or otherwise investigate the Issuers’ 
management, which would have revealed Briner’s undisclosed role as a control person.  Nor did he 
conduct a background check of Briner or Dalmy, which at minimum would have turned up, among 
other things, the Commission’s complaint alleging fraud and suspension order against Briner, and 
that Briner had been on the OTC Market’s Prohibited Attorney List since March 15, 2006, and that 
Dalmy had also been on the list since September 25, 2009. 

       28.    Additionally, De Joya’s client acceptance policies and procedures failed to detect 
clues that should have raised concerns.  Upon referring the Issuers, Briner’s assistant provided De 
Joya with the names of the officers, the inception dates, and the year-end dates for each of the 
Issuers.  From this, De Joya was on notice that two of the officers controlled four Issuers.  De Joya 
was also on notice that seven of the nine Issuers were incorporated on the same day or within one 
day of each other (May 31, 2012 or June 1, 2012).   

       29.    This information should have at least caused De Joya and Zhang to question why 
the Issuers’ dates of incorporation appeared to be coordinated.  Zhang failed to ask any questions 
with respect to this information. 

       30.    For the above reasons, De Joya’s client acceptance policies and procedures failed to 
meet QC 20 and, in the course of utilizing these procedures during the engagements at issue, 
Zhang failed to meet AS 12 and AU 230, and Griffith and Arthur De Joya failed to meet AS 7. 

                                                 
       2
         The PCAOB standards referenced herein      are the standards that were in effect during the 
time of relevant conduct. 

                                                 5 
                                                   
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 

       Zhang Failed to Obtain an Understanding of the Issuers 

       31.    Under AS 12, auditors should “obtain an understanding of the company and its 
environment . . . to understand the events, conditions, and company activities that might reasonably 
be expected to have a significant effect on the risks of material misstatement,” including “[t]he 
nature of the company” (¶ 7.b.) and “[t]he company’s objectives and strategies and those related 
business risks that might reasonably be expected to result in risks of material misstatement” (¶ 
7.d.).  Further, obtaining an understanding of the nature of the company includes understanding 
“[t]he company’s organizational structure and management personnel; [t]he sources of funding of 
the company’s operations and investment activities, including the company’s capital structure[, 
t]he company’s operating characteristics, including its size and complexity” (¶ 10), and “an 
understanding of internal control includes evaluating the design of controls that are relevant to the 
audit and determining whether the controls have been implemented” (¶ 20). 

       32.    Additionally, auditors must meet AU 230, which requires that auditors “exercise 
professional skepticism” (at .07) and “should be knowledgeable about the client” and are 
responsible for the “supervision of[] members of the engagement team” (.06). 

       33.    Zhang failed to obtain a sufficient understanding of the Issuers.  What little 
understanding of the Issuers he obtained came almost entirely from draft Form S-1 registration 
statements and responses to certain questionnaires from the Issuers, both provided by Briner.  
Zhang did not obtain an understanding of the Issuers through direct communication with the 
Issuers’ officers.   

       34.    In obtaining an understanding of the Issuers, Zhang did not question the substantial 
similarities among the Issuers.  The Issuers filed eight nearly identical Form S-1 registration 
statements.  Using almost exactly the same language, each stated the following: (1) the Issuers are 
not blank check companies; (2) the Issuers’ officers purchased Issuer stock for $30,000; (2) the 
Issuers purchased British Columbia mineral claims from Jervis; (3) Jervis supplied nearly all the 
Issuers’ with their business plans; (4) the officers “solely” control the company; (5) the officers 
planned to devote only 4 to 5 hours each week to the business; and (6) the officers have not 
inspected the land comprising the mineral claims.   

       35.    Within about a four-week period, Zhang read eight of these registration statements.  
Despite this, Zhang did not raise any concern about the similarities among the registration 
statements, or perform any enhanced procedures to respond to the level of risk presented. 

       36.    For the above reasons, Zhang failed to meet AS 12 and AU 230.   

       The De Joya Partners Failed to Adequately Respond to Concerns 
       that Briner and Dalmy May Have Been Engaging in Fraud 

       37.    In early November 2012, while Zhang was conducting the initial audit for the 
Issuers, a De Joya staff member raised concerns to the De Joya Partners, including Griffith and 
Arthur De Joya, that Briner and Dalmy may be engaging in fraud with respect to the Issuers.   

       38.    Under QC 20, “policies and procedures should provide the firm with reasonable 
assurance that the likelihood of association with a client whose management lacks integrity is 

                                                6 
                                                  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 

minimized” (at .14) and that the firm “[a]ppropriately considers the risks associated with providing 
professional services in the particular circumstances” (at .15 b.). 

       39.    Under AS 12, “[t]he auditor’s assessment of the risks of material misstatement, 
including fraud risks, should continue throughout the audit.  When the auditor obtains audit 
evidence during the course of the audit that contradicts the audit evidence on which the auditor 
originally based his or her risk assessment, the auditor should revise the risk assessment and 
modify planned audit procedures or perform additional procedures in response to the revised risk 
assessments” (¶ 74). 

       40.    Further, under PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 13 (The Auditor’s Responses to the 
Risks of Material Misstatement) (“AS 13”), “[t]he auditor’s responses to the assessed risks of 
material misstatement, particularly fraud risks, should involve the application of professional 
skepticism in gathering and evaluating audit evidence [including] . . . modifying the planned audit 
procedures to obtain more reliable evidence regarding relevant assertions and (b) obtaining 
sufficient appropriate evidence to corroborate management’s explanations or representations 
concerning important matters, such as through third-party confirmation, use of a specialist engaged 
or employed by the auditor, or examination of documentation from independent sources” (¶ 7).     

       41.    Finally, under AS 7, the engagement quality review partner should “evaluate the 
significant judgments made by the engagement team and the related conclusions reached in 
forming the overall conclusion on the engagement,” (¶ 9) including “significant risks identified by 
the engagement team, including fraud risks” (¶ 10.b.). 

       42.    De Joya and Zhang failed to (a) properly consider the risks associated with the 
Issuers’ audits, (b) apply professional skepticism in evaluating audit evidence indicating Briner and 
Dalmy may be engaging in fraud, (c) re-evaluate their risk assessments for the Issuers’ audits in 
light of such evidence, and (d) regarding Arthur De Joya’s and Griffith’s roles as engagement 
quality review partners, appropriately evaluate the engagement teams’ judgments to continue with 
the audits without appropriately re-assessing and responding to the risk of fraud in violation of QC 
20, AS 12, AS 13, and AS 7. 

       43.    On or about November 5, 2012, a De Joya staff member became concerned that 
Briner might be engaging in fraud in connection with the De Joya Issuers.  Her concern stemmed 
from conversations she had with certain Issuers’ officers in which nearly all her questions about 
the Issuers were deferred to Briner.  These conversations caused her to conduct an internet search 
on Briner.  She found, among other things, the Commission’s complaint against him.  Additional 
searches yielded news articles describing Briner and Dalmy as repeat securities fraud offenders. 

       44.    As a result, the De Joya staff member sent four emails over three days sharing the 
negative information she found concerning Briner and Dalmy.  First, on November 5, 2012, she 
sent Zhang and another De Joya partner, who was reviewing an interim financial statement for La 
Paz, an email containing links to the Commission’s complaint against Briner (SEC v. Golden 
Apple Oil and Gas, Inc., et al., 09-Civ-7580 (S.D.N.Y.) (HB)) and a Canadian news article stating, 
among other things, that the British Columbia Securities Commission issued an order (reciprocal to 
the Commission’s order suspending Briner) banning Briner from trading shares in British 

                                                7 
                                                  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 

                                                                                                 3
Columbia or “acting in a management or consultative capacity in any securities related matter.”   
In the email, she asked Zhang and the other De Joya partner to “review the links” and stated that 
she “will call [Zhang] tonight.”   

       45.    Second, that same day, the De Joya staff member sent another email to Zhang and 
the other De Joya partner with a link to an article posted on Pumpsanddumps.com stating that 
Briner and Dalmy “together and apart, the pair has been involved in dozens of schemes on the 
Vancouver market as well as the Pink sheets and OTC Bulletin Board, writing many a dubious 
                                                                             4
legal opinion resulting in millions of dollars lost by thousands of investors.”     

       46.    Third, on November 7, 2012, the De Joya staff member sent yet another email to 
Zhang and the other De Joya partner attaching an article about a De Joya client, MoneyMinding 
International Corp., and its counsel, Dalmy, who was described as having “a reputation for helping 
scoundrel promoters take dubious companies public on the U.S. over-the-counter markets.”  The 
article also specifically mentions De Joya as having “similarly helped many dubious companies go 
                              5
public on the bulletin board.”     

       47.    Finally, the same day, the De Joya staff member forwarded the email and article to 
Griffith stating, “I thought I should forward this to you as well.  I was doing research on Diane 
Dalmy and John Briner as we are working on some of their jobs and that’s how I can [sic] across 
this article.”  Griffith then forwarded her email with the attached article to Arthur De Joya without 
comment. 

       48.    In light of the negative background the De Joya staff member found and the 
officers’ apparent inability to answer questions about the issuers, the staff member found it 
suspicious that Briner and Dalmy were working together on eight of the nine issuers that De Joya 
was auditing.  The staff member discussed her concerns with Zhang.  Zhang then discussed the 
staff member’s concerns with the other De Joya partner and resolved that Zhang would raise them 
with Griffith and Arthur De Joya, which Zhang did.   

       49.    Zhang opened the links in the emails the De Joya staff member sent, printed the 
documents, highlighted relevant portions, and brought them to separate face-to-face meetings with 
Arthur De Joya and Griffith.  At these meetings it was collectively decided that De Joya could 
continue with the engagements because Briner was not appearing before the Commission in 
violation of his suspension.   

       50.    Zhang and Arthur De Joya each informed the De Joya staff member of this decision 
and then continued with the audits without adjusting any audit procedures or taking any additional 
precautions in light of the facts they learned about Briner and Dalmy.  Zhang ultimately signed 

                                                 
       3
         http://www.canadianjusticereviewboard.ca/article    -securities%20lawyer.htm    
        
       4
         http://www.pumpsanddumps.com/2011/06/all        -that -glitters  -is -not -greenwood-gold.html 
        
       5
         http://blogs.vanco uversun.com/2011/03/17/david    -baines  -two -victoria  -startups  -wade -
into -bulletin  -board -swamp/   
        

                                                  8 
                                                   
---------------------Page 9---------------------

 

audit reports containing unqualified opinions for the Issuers and Arthur De Joya and Griffith 
signed off on the Issuers’ audits as Engagement Quality Review partners without taking any 
further action. 

       51.    None of the above purported discussions were documented in any workpaper, or 
otherwise, in violation of PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 3 (Audit Documentation) (“AS 3”), 
which provides that auditors “must document significant findings or issues, actions taken to 
address them (including additional evidence obtained), and the basis for the conclusions reached in 
connection with each engagement” (¶ 12). 

       Zhang Failed to Properly Audit the Issuers’ Cash 

       52.      Under PCAOB standard AU Section 330 (The Confirmation Process) (“AU 330”), 
when “information about the respondent’s [i.e., the person or entity from which a confirmation is 
requested] competence, knowledge, motivation, ability, or willingness to respond, or about the 
respondent’s objectivity and freedom from bias with respect to the audited entity comes to the 
auditor’s attention, the auditor should consider the effects of such information on designing the 
confirmation request and evaluating the results” and, in circumstances where “the respondent is the 
custodian of a material amount of the audited entity’s assets,” the auditor should exercise “a 
heightened degree of professional skepticism” and “should consider whether there is sufficient 
basis for concluding that the confirmation request is being sent to a respondent from whom the 
auditor can expect the response will provide meaningful and appropriate audit evidence” (at .27).  

       53.    Additionally, under PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 15 (Audit Evidence) (“AS 
15”), “[t]he auditor must plan and perform audit procedures to obtain sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence to provide a reasonable basis for his or her opinion” (¶ 4).  To be appropriate, audit 
evidence must be both relevant and reliable in providing support for the conclusions on which the 
auditor’s opinion is based.  “The reliability of evidence depends on the nature and source of the 
evidence and the circumstances under which it is obtained” (¶ 8).  Under AS 13, “[t]he auditor’s 
responses to the assessed risks of material misstatement, particularly fraud risks, should involve the 
application of professional skepticism in gathering and evaluating audit evidence” (¶ 7). 

       54.    Zhang exhibited no concern about Briner’s handling of the Issuers’ alleged cash.  
Zhang knew that Briner held all of the Issuers’ purported funds in the Master Trust Account and 
that none of the Issuers had their own bank account.  Zhang also knew that Briner was a 
“consultant” to the Issuers and that MetroWest was a law firm.  Zhang did not seek any appropriate 
audit evidence about what, if any, limitations governed Briner’s use of the cash in his Master Trust 
Account.  Nor did he ask for a reconciliation between Briner’s Master Trust Account and the 
schedules Briner provided purportedly showing how much cash in his account was attributable to 
each Issuer. 

       55.    In addition, Zhang violated the above standards by failing to apply professional 
skepticism in gathering and evaluating the evidence obtained, such as Briner’s confirmation of 
Issuer cash, and consider Briner’s “objectivity and freedom from bias with respect to the audited 
entity” in relation to the Issuers’ cash confirmation Briner provided. 

                                                9 
                                                  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

 

       Zhang Disregarded Red Flags that Briner’s Services to 
       the Issuers Were Not Given Accounting Recognition 

       56.    Under PCAOB standard AU Section 334 (Related Parties) (“AU 334”), transactions 
that are indicative of the existence of related parties include, among other things, “transactions 
[that] are occurring, but are not being given accounting recognition, such as receiving or providing 
accounting, management or other services at no charge” (at .08(f)).  Further, under AS 15, “[i]f 
audit evidence obtained from one source is inconsistent with that obtained from another, or if the 
auditor has doubts about the reliability of information to be used as audit evidence, the auditor 
should perform the audit procedures necessary to resolve the matter and should determine the 
effect, if any, on other aspects of the audit” (¶ 29).  Finally, auditors must exercise professional 
skepticism throughout the course of the engagement consistent with standard AU 230. 

       57.    Zhang failed to question Briner’s fee arrangement with the Issuers.  Instead, he 
relied on legal confirmation letters from Briner that conflicted on their face with what he knew to 
be true about the services Briner provided.   

       58.    These letters each stated that “[a]s of the date of inception and up to the present 
date, the [Issuers were] not indebted to us for services and expenses (billed or unbilled) of which 
we are aware.”  Zhang knew that Briner provided substantial services to the Issuers, such as, 
among other things, performing accounting functions (paying expenses and recording 
transactions), drafting the Issuers’ registration statements, and preparing the Issuers’ financial 
statements for their registration statements.  Zhang also knew that the Issuers’ financial statements 
and general ledgers did not reflect payment for Briner’s services.  Despite this, Zhang did not ask 
Briner for any invoices, agreements, engagement letters, or any details about his fee arrangements 
with the Issuers.  Nor did he conduct any related party analysis. 

       59.    For the above reasons, Zhang failed to meet AU 334, AS 15, and AU 230. 

       Zhang Disregarded Red Flags that the Issuers’ 
       Stock Sales to Their Officers Were Shams 

       60.    Under AS 15, “[i]f audit evidence obtained from one source is inconsistent with 
that obtained from another, or if the auditor has doubts about the reliability of information to be 
used as audit evidence, the auditor should perform the audit procedures necessary to resolve the 
matter and should determine the effect, if any, on other aspects of the audit” (¶ 29 ).  Under AS 12, 
the auditor should obtain “an understanding of the nature of the company include[ing]…the 
sources of funding of the company’s operations” (¶ 10)  and “[w]hen the auditor obtains audit 
evidence during the course of the audit that contradicts the audit evidence on which the auditor 
originally based his or her risk assessment, the auditor should revise the risk assessment and 
modify planned audit procedures or perform additional procedures in response to the revised risk 
assessments” (¶ 74).  Further, under AS 14, auditors should consider “[t]he sufficiency and 
appropriateness of the audit evidence obtained” (¶ 4.f.).  In meeting these standards, auditors must 
apply professional skepticism and due care consistent with AU 230. 

       61.     Briner provided De Joya with schedules for each of the Issuers that purportedly 
listed all of the Issuer’s transactions (prepared by Briner allegedly reflecting cash attributable to 

                                                10 
                                                   
---------------------Page 11---------------------

 

each Issuer from his Master Trust Account).  Each appeared to indicate that individuals or entities 
named “Hyperion” management, “Luke Pretty,” or “Dhaliwal” supplied the funds to pay for the 
officers’ stock purchases.  As such, these schedules contradicted the Stock Purchase Agreements, 
which all indicated that the officer purchased the Issuer’s stock. 

       62.    For some Issuers, the date listed for the stock purchase was prior to the Issuers’ 
incorporation.   

       63.    For others, the date listed for the stock purchase was after the Issuers purchased 
their mineral claims, which, if true, raises questions as to how the Issuers were able to finance a 
mineral claim purchase before having received the funds necessary to make the mineral claim 
purchase.   

       64.    Despite the contradicting evidence regarding who paid for (and owned) the Issuers’ 
stock, and when the transactions took place, Zhang took no further action with respect to these 
alleged stock purchases. 

       65.    Although Zhang and De Joya staff questioned Briner about who paid for the stock 
purchase, they failed to obtain adequate supporting evidence that resolved this issue.  In or about 
October 2012, De Joya staff requested supporting documentation and a breakdown by Issuer 
identifying who paid for the stock.  Briner replied that the officers borrowed the funds, not only for 
the stock purchase, but also for the Issuers’ mineral claim purchase from Jervis as well.  As 
support, Briner sent copies of three checks: (1) $300,000 from Jagjit Dhaliwal to MetroWest, (2) 
$42,500 from MetroWest to Jervis, and (3) $41,543.75 from an unidentified individual or entity to 
Jervis.  Briner also stated that the $300,000 was really from an entity called Global Investments 
(not Dhaliwal), which purportedly loaned the funds to the officers to incorporate and pay for 
company stock.   

       66.    As Briner’s response did not make clear who paid for the stock, the De Joya staff 
continued to request a breakdown by Issuer of who paid for the stock purchases (and also for the 
mineral claims).  The breakdown Briner provided stated that an individual referred to as Luke 
Pretty paid $15,000 for the mineral claims allegedly purchased by Goldcamp and Tuba City.  And 
that Luke Pretty paid $60,000 for Goldcamp’s and Tuba City’s officers’ purchase of company 
stock.  Global Investments paid the remaining funds to the Issuers.   

       67.    Not satisfied with Briner’s response, on November 27, 2012, Zhang emailed Briner 
asking who paid Jervis for the mineral claims stating “we have received contradicting information 
for this” and that if it was Global Investments “why [is it] not shown in [the] books.”  He also 
asked about Luke Pretty.  But Briner did not provide any additional supporting documentation.  
Nor did Zhang seek clarification from the Issuers’ officers.  

       68.    As a result, Zhang failed to resolve these conflicts or obtain sufficient appropriate 
audit evidence to support De Joya’s opinions and therefore violated PCAOB standards AS 15, AS 
12, and AU 230. 

                                                11 
                                                  
---------------------Page 12---------------------

 

       Zhang Disregarded Red Flags that the Issuers’ 
       Mineral Claim Purchases Were Shams 

       69.    Zhang failed to investigate evidence from Briner that should have caused him to 
question the Issuers’ alleged mineral claim purchases from Jervis.   

       70.    During the audits, Zhang sought information about Briner’s relationship with 
Jervis, in part because all of the Issuers purchased their mineral claims from Jervis.  On or about 
October 25, 2012, Zhang participated in a conference call with Briner to discuss the issue.  
Following the call, Briner provided a letter dated October 26, 2012 stating that he “is only a 
director of Jervis Explorations Inc. [and a]s such he neither holds any ownership interests in that 
company nor is he involved in any decision making process of Jervis Explorations Inc.”  Learning 
that Briner was a director of Jervis and knowing that Briner played a substantial role in the Issuers’ 
affairs should have caused Zhang to obtain evidence to corroborate Briner’s assertions regarding 
the Issuers’ mineral claim purchases from Jervis. 

       71.    Zhang, therefore, violated AU 334 (because Briner appeared to control Jervis and 
Zhang failed to, among other things, “review the extent and nature of business transacted with 
[Jervis] for indications of previously undisclosed relationships” (.08(e))) and AS 13, which states 
that “[t]he auditor’s responses to the assessed risks of material misstatement, particularly fraud 
risks, should involve the application of professional skepticism in gathering and evaluating audit 
evidence.”  (¶ 7)  Zhang also violated AS 15, AS 12, and AU 230 for failing to resolve the conflict 
between Briner’s role as a director of Jervis and his statement that he is not involved in Jervis’s 
decision making. 

       Zhang Failed to Resolve Discrepancies in the Audit 
       Evidence Supporting the Officers’ Fees 

       72.    Zhang accepted evidence that purported to support the officers’ fees that did not in 
fact provide support.  In some instances the evidence also was inconsistent with the schedules for 
the Issuers prepared by Briner purportedly reflecting cash attributable to the Issuers in the Master 
Trust Account.   

       73.    On or about October 28, 2012, a De Joya staff accountant asked for documents 
reflecting the payment of fees to the officers (in the same communication discussed in ¶ 137, 
above).  The next day, Briner’s assistant sent documents reflecting wire transfers from MetroWest 
to, among others, Crown Capital Partners for $6,000 and Strategic Air Consultants for $4,000.  
Although Briner’s assistant indicated that the wire to Crown Capital Partners was for La Paz’s 
officer (for services to three companies), no other documents made this connection and La Paz’s 
officer was not asked whether he was paid his fee.  Briner’s assistant did not state which officer 
was associated with Strategic Air Consultants, and Zhang did not try to find out.  Nonetheless, 
Zhang accepted these documents as support for the officers’ fees. 

       74.    Further, the documents reflecting wire transfers from MetroWest to the officers for 
Canyon and Clearpoint were not consistent with these Issuers’ schedules.  The wire transfers were 
as follows: USD $4,000 to Canyon’s officer and C $4,000 to Jewel’s officer.  But the schedule 
Briner provided for Canyon indicates that its officer was paid USD $3,000, and the schedule for 

                                                12 
                                                  
---------------------Page 13---------------------

 

Jewel indicates that its officer was paid USD $3,000 in U.S. currency.  Moreover, the wire transfer 
documents Briner provided do not indicate when the wire transfers purportedly occurred.  The 
dates of the transactions listed in the schedules, therefore, cannot be compared with the wire 
transfer documents provided. 

       75.    Zhang failed to resolve these conflicts or obtain sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence to support De Joya’s opinions and therefore violated AS 15, AS 12, and AU 230. 

       Zhang and Griffith Failed to Detect Basic Accounting Errors and Inconsistencies 
       Between the Financial Statements and the Registration Statements 

       76.    Under AU 230, “[a]n auditor should possess ‘the degree of skill commonly 
possessed’ by other auditors and should exercise it with ‘reasonable care and diligence’ (that is, 
with due professional care)” (at .05).  Further, under AS 7, an engagement quality review partner 
should “review the financial statements” and “read other information in documents containing the 
financial statements to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission . . . and evaluate 
whether the engagement team has taken appropriate action with respect to any material 
inconsistencies with the financial statements or material misstatements of fact of which the 
engagement quality reviewer is aware” (¶ 10 f. and g.). 

       77.    During the audits and engagement quality reviews, Zhang and Griffith failed to 
detect basic mistakes in the Issuers’ financial statements and inconsistencies between the financial 
statements and information contained in other parts of the registration statements as reflected in the 
chart under Appendix A. 

       78.    Mistakes in the financial statements include, among other things, balance sheets 
that do not foot and conflicts between balance sheets and the notes to the financial statements.  
Inconsistences between the financial statements and other information in the registration 
statements include, among other things, the disclosure of a net loss in the registration statement that 
conflicts with what should be the same disclosure in the Statement of Operations in the financial 
statements.  These errors may constitute material misstatements and reflect Zhang and Griffith’s 
apparent lack of due care in conducting their audits and engagement quality reviews, respectively. 

       79.    For the reasons contained in the chart under Appendix A, Zhang failed to meet AU 
230 and Griffith failed to meet AU 230 and AS 7. 

RESPONDENTS VIOLATED SECTION 17(a) OF THE SECURITES ACT, RULE 2-02 OF 
   REGULATION S-X, AND ENGAGED IN IMPROPER PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT 
 
       80.    De Joya falsely stated in its audit reports filed with each of the nine issuers’ 
registration statements that they “conducted [their] audit in accordance with the standards of the 
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States)” and that the financial statements 
present the Issuers’ financial positions “in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting 
principles.”  Zhang signed or consented to the filings of these audit reports and Authur De Joya and 
Griffith provided concurring approval of issuance. 

       81.    Additionally, De Joya and the De Joya Partners failed to meet the PCAOB 
standards discussed herein. 

                                               13 
                                                 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

 

       82.    For these false reports, De Joya and the De Joya Partners collected a total of 
$37,500 in fees.  

       83.    De Joya and the De Joya Partners knew, or were reckless in not knowing, that each 
of the Issuers for which they provided audit reports was a device, scheme, or artifice to defraud in 
violation of Section 17(a)(1) of the Securities Act.  Further, by providing such reports, De Joya and 
the De Joya Partners acted unreasonably and caused the Issuers’ violations of Sections 17(a)(1), 
(2), and (3) of the Securities Act.  De Joya and the De Joya Partners also violated Sections 17(a)(2) 
and (3) of the Securities Act by falsely claiming that their audits complied with PCAOB standards. 

       84.    Additionally, for failing to meet the PCAOB audit standards identified above in 
auditing the Issuers, De Joya and the De Joya Partners engaged in improper professional conduct 
pursuant to the Commission’s Rules of Practice Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) by each engaging in at least one 
instance of highly unreasonable conduct or at least two instances of unreasonable conduct under 
Rule 102(e)(1)(iv).  Further, De Joya violated Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X by providing 
audit reports included in the Issuers’ Form S-1 Registration statements that falsely state that the 
Issuers’ audits were made in accordance with PCAOB standards.  The De Joya Partners caused De 
Joya’s violations of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X by consenting to the filing of these audit 
reports. 

       85.    Further, as described above, De Joya and the De Joya Partners willfully violated 
Sections 17(a)(1), (2), and (3) of the Securities Act thereby engaging in conduct subject to the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice Rule 102(e)(1)(iii). 

                                  COMMISSION FINDINGS 

       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that: 

       A.     Respondents willfully violated Sections 17(a)(1), (2), and (3) of the Securities Act;  

       B.     Respondents engaged in improper professional conduct pursuant to Section 
4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice;  

       C.     De Joya violated Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X;  

       D.     the De Joya Partners caused violations of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X; and  

       E.     Respondents willfully violated Sections 17(a)(1), (2), and (3) of the Securities Act 
thereby engaging in conduct subject to Section 4C(a)(3) of the Exchange Act and Practice Rule 
102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 

                                               IV. 
        
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offer. 
        
       Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Exchange Act, it is hereby ORDERED that: 

                                                14 
                                                  
---------------------Page 15---------------------

 

        
       A.     Respondents shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
any future violations of Sections 17(a)(1), (2), and (3) of the Securities Act and Rule 2-02(b)(1) of 
Regulation S-X. 

       B.     Respondent De Joya is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant. 

       C.     After five years from the date of this Order, De Joya may request that the 
Commission consider its reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief 
Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as an independent 
accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that: 

               a)      De Joya is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board 
(“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be 
effective.  However, if registration with the Board is dependent upon reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider the application on its other merits; 

               b)     De Joya has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify 
any criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that 
would indicate that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

               c)      De Joya has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has 
complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and  

               d)     De Joya acknowledges its responsibility, as long as it appears or practices 
before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all requirements of the 
Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, 
inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   

       D.     The Commission will consider an application by De Joya to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that its state CPA license is current and he has resolved 
all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, if state 
licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an 
application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition 
to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, 
professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

       E.     Respondent De Joya shall pay disgorgement of $37,500.00 and prejudgment interest 
of $2,903.79, and a civil penalty of $18,750.00, for a total of $59,153.79, to the Securities and 
Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to 
Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3), which shall be paid in the following installments: (1) $14,788.44 
within 10 days of the entry of this Order; (2) $14,788.44 within 120 days of the entry of this Order; 
(3) $14,788.44 within 210 days of the entry of this Order; and (4) $14,788.47 within 300 days of 
entry of this Order.  If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC 
Rule of Practice 600 or 31 U.S.C. § 3717. 

                                                15 
                                                   
---------------------Page 16---------------------

 

       F.     Respondent Zhang is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant. 

       G.     After five years from the date of this Order, Zhang may request that the Commission 
consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) 
to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

               a)      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
of  any  public  company’s  financial  statements  that  are  filed  with  the  Commission.    Such  an 
application must satisfy the Commission that Zhang’s work in his practice before the Commission 
will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company for which he 
works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the Commission in this 
capacity; and/or 

               b)     an   independent   accountant.      Such   an   application   must   satisfy   the 
Commission that: 

                       i.      Zhang, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      ii.      Zhang, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of or 
potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that the 
respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      iii.      Zhang has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has 
complied  with  all  terms  and  conditions  of  any  sanctions  imposed  by  the  Board  (other  than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      iv.      Zhang acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Zhang appears or 
practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all requirements of 
the  Commission  and  the  Board,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  all  requirements  relating  to 
registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   

       H.     The Commission will consider an application by Zhang to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has resolved 
all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, if state 
licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an 
application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition 
to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Zhang’s character, integrity, 
professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

       I.      Respondent Zhang shall pay a civil penalty of $25,000.00, to the Securities and 
Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to 
Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3), which shall be paid in the following installments:  $5,000.00 
within 10 days of the entry of this Order, and $20,000.00 in four installments of $5,000.00 due on 
October 1, 2015, January 1, 2016, April 1, 2016, and one year from entry of this Order.    If timely 

                                                16 
                                                  
---------------------Page 17---------------------

 

payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717. 

       J.      Respondent Griffith is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant. 

       K.     After  three  years  from  the  date  of  this  Order,  Griffith  may  request  that  the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief 
Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

               a)      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
of  any  public  company’s  financial  statements  that  are  filed  with  the  Commission.    Such  an 
application must satisfy the Commission that Griffith’s work in his practice before the Commission 
will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company for which he 
works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the Commission in this 
capacity; and/or 

               b)     an   independent   accountant.      Such   an   application   must   satisfy   the 
Commission that: 

                       i.      Griffith, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                       ii.      Griffith, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of or 
potential defects in Griffith’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that Griffith 
will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      iii.      Griffith has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has 
complied  with  all  terms  and  conditions  of  any  sanctions  imposed  by  the  Board  (other  than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      iv.      Griffith  acknowledges his responsibility, as long as  he  appears or 
practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all requirements of 
the  Commission  and  the  Board,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  all  requirements  relating  to 
registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   

       L.     The Commission will consider an application by Griffith to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has resolved 
all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, if state 
licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider his 
application on other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to 
the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Griffith’s character, integrity, 
professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

       M.     Respondent Arthur De Joya is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before 
the Commission as an accountant. 

                                                17 
                                                   
---------------------Page 18---------------------

 

       N.     After three years from the date of this Order, Arthur De Joya may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief 
Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

               a)      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
of  any  public  company’s  financial  statements  that  are  filed  with  the  Commission.    Such  an 
application must satisfy the Commission that Arthur De Joya’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company for 
which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the Commission 
in this capacity; and/or 

               b)     an   independent   accountant.      Such   an   application   must   satisfy   the 
Commission that: 

                       i.      Arthur  De  Joya,  or  the  public  accounting  firm  with  which  he  is 
associated,  is  registered  with  the  Public  Company  Accounting  Oversight  Board  (“Board”)  in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      ii.      Arthur De Joya, or the registered public accounting firm with which 
he is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in Arthur De Joya’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that Arthur De Joya will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      iii.      Arthur De Joya has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, 
and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      iv.      Arthur  De  Joya  acknowledges  his  responsibility,  as  long  as  he 
appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   

       O.     The Commission will consider an application by Arthur De Joya to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he 
has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider 
his application on other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition 
to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Arthur De Joya’s character, integrity, 
professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

       P.     Respondent Griffith shall pay a civil penalty of $15,000.00, to the Securities and 
Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to 
Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3), which shall be paid in the following installments:  $3,000.00 
within 10 days of the entry of this Order, and $12,000.00 in four installments of $3,000.00 due on 
October 1, 2015, January 1, 2016, April 1, 2016, and one year from entry of this Order.   If timely 
payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717. 

       Q.     Respondent Arthur De Joya shall pay a civil penalty of $15,000.00, to the Securities 

                                                18 
                                                  
---------------------Page 19---------------------

 

and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to 
Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3), which shall be paid in the following installments:  $3,000.00 
within 10 days of the entry of this Order, and $12,000.00 in four installments of $3,000.00 due on 
October 1, 2015, January 1, 2016, April 1, 2016, and one year from entry of this Order.  If timely 
payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717. 

       R.     Payment of disgorgement and civil penalties as described herein must be made in 
one of the following ways:   
        
               (1)    Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
        
               (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
                
               (3)     Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and hand-
delivered or mailed to:  
        
       Enterprise Services Center 
       Accounts Receivable Branch 
       HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
       6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
       Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
        
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying the 
Respondent by name in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the 
cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Lara Shalov Mehraban, Division of 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 200 Vesey Street, NY 10281.   
 
       S.     The Division of Enforcement (“Division”) may, at any time following the entry of 
this Order, petition the Commission to: (1) reopen this matter to consider whether Respondent 
provided accurate and complete financial information at the time such representations were made; 
and (2) seek an order directing payment of disgorgement and pre-judgment interest. No other issue 
shall be considered in connection with this petition other than whether the financial information 
provided by Respondent was fraudulent, misleading, inaccurate, or incomplete in any material 
respect. Respondent may not, by way of defense to any such petition: (1) contest the findings in this 
Order; (2) assert that payment of disgorgement and interest should not be ordered; (3) contest the 
amount of disgorgement and interest to be ordered; or (4) assert any defense to liability or remedy, 
including, but not limited to, any statute of limitations defense. 
        
       T.     Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be 
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To preserve 
the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that in any Related Investor Action, they 
shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or reduction of any award of 
compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondents’ payment of a civil penalty in this 
action (“Penalty Offset”).  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, 

                                                19 
                                                  
---------------------Page 20---------------------

 

Respondents agree that they shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty 
Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to 
the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil 
penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty imposed in this 
proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a private damages 
action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based on substantially 
the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this proceeding. 
 
                                                 V. 
                                                   
       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S. C. §523, that the findings in this Order are true and admitted 
by Respondents, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other  
amounts due by Respondents under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree 
or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by 
Respondents of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set 
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. § 523(a)(19). 
        
        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
                                                              Brent J. Fields 
                                                              Secretary 
                                

                                                 20 
                                                   
---------------------Page 21---------------------

 

                                                  Appendix A 

                                                          

    Issuer        Engagement        EQR                       Audited Financial Statement Errors/ 
                     Partner       Partner         Conflict Between Audited Financial Statements and Other 
                                                              Registration Statement Information 
  Tuba City          Zhang         Griffith    Audited Financial Statement Errors 
                                                The Total Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity amount on the 
                                                  Balance Sheet on Page F-3 does not foot.   It is reported as 
                                                  $27,325, but the accurately footed amount is $19,825. 
                                                The amounts for Net Cash Used in Operating Activities of 
                                                  $(10,175), Net Cash Used in Investing Activities of $(7,500) and 
                                                  Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities of $30,000 do not foot 
                                                  to the amount presented as Increase in Cash on the Statement of 
                                                  Cash Flows on Page F-6.  The amount presented is $19,825, but the 
                                                  amount accurately footed is $12,325. 
                                                Note 3, Acquisition of a Mineral Claim, on Page F-11 discloses 
                                                  that “the acquisitions costs have been impaired and expensed 
                                                  during 2012.”  The line Mineral property for $7,500 on the Balance 
                                                  Sheet on Page F-3 and the Statement of Operations on page F-4 
                                                  reflect an unimpaired amount. 
                                                Note 6, Going Concern on page F-11, discloses that the company 
                                                  “has incurred a loss of $4,008.”  This amount does not match the 
                                                  Net loss of $10,175 presented on the Statement of Operations on 
                                                  Page F-4. 
                                                Note 7, Income Tax on Page F-11, discloses that the company “has 
                                                  $4,008 of net operating losses carried forward.”  This amount does 
                                                  not match the Net loss of $10,175 presented on the Statement of 
                                                  Operations on Page F-4.  The SEC staff has not found any audit 
                                                  workpapers related to income taxes. 
                                               Conflicts Between Audited Financial Statements and Other 
                                               Registration Statement Information 
                                                The Net loss from operations of $4,008 in the Consolidated 
                                                  Statements of Income under Summary Financial Information on 
                                                  Page 5 does not match the same line item on the Statement of 
                                                  Operations on Page F-4 of $(10,175).  The period for the $4,008 
                                                  amount, however, was not specified. 
                                                The accounts payable amount of $1,333 in the Balance Sheet Data 
                                                  under Summary Financial Information on Page 5 does not match 
                                                  the same line item on the Balance Sheet on Page F-3, which is $0. 
                                                The deficit accumulated during exploration period amount of 
                                                  $(4,008) in the Balance Sheet Data under Summary Financial 
                                                  Information on Page 5 does not match the same line item on the 
                                                  Balance Sheet on Page F-3, which is $(10,175). 
   Canyon            Zhang         Griffith    Audited Financial Statement Error 
                                                The Stockholder’s Equity section of the Balance Sheet does not 
                                                  foot.  The amount reported is $25,325, but the accurate footing is 
                                                  $24,325. 

                                                          

 

                                                        21 
                                                          
