---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                STATES OF AMERICA 
 
                                          Before the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 9093 / December 17, 2009 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 61192 / December 17, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3083 / December 17, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13721 
 
                                                ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC  
In the Matter of                                ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-AND-
                                                DESIST PROCEEDINGS, PURSUANT TO 
       KENNETH W. PETERSON,                     SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT 
       CPA,                                     OF 1933, SECTIONS 4C AND 21C OF THE  
                                                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, 
Respondent.                                     AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                                MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                                REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-
                                                AND-DESIST ORDER  
  
                                              I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, 
instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of  1933 (“Securities Act”), Sections 4C1 
                                                                                            
and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the   
Commission’s Rules of Practice 2 
                                 against Kenneth W. Peterson (“Peterson” or “Respondent”).   
                                                 
1 
 Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:                            
 
       The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the privilege                       
of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way,  if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the   
requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be   lacking in character or integrity, or to have engaged in  
unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have   willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the 
violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.   
 
2 
         Rule 102(e)(1) provides, in relevant part, that:            
 
       The Commission may censure a person or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or   
       practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . .    
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                   II.  
 
        In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Peterson has submitted an Offer of 
Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose 
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are  
admitted, Peterson consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative and Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933, Sections 4C and 21C 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice,  
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as  
set forth below.   
 
                                                  III.  
 
        On the basis of this Order and Peterson’s Offer, the Commission finds     3
                                                                                    that:  
 
                                               Summary  
 
        1.      This matter involves violations of the federal securities laws and improper 
professional conduct by Peterson in connection with the 2001-2003 audits of Bally Total Fitness 
Holding Corporation (“Bally”) conducted by Ernst & Young LLP (“E&Y”).  Peterson, a 
Professional Practice Director (“PPD”) in E&Y’s National Office, served as the Independent 
Review Partner (“IRP”), or concurring partner, for the 2001-2003 audits.   
         

                                                                                                                                                             
 
                                                  * * * 
 
        (ii) to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct.
    
 
                                                  * * * 

 
        (iv)  With respect to persons licensed to practice as accountants, “improper professional conduct” under   
        §201.102(e)(1)(ii) means: 

                                                  * * * 

         
                (B) Either of the following two types of negligent conduct: 

                                                     
                                                  * * * 

         
                        (2) Repeated instances of un  reasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of  
                        applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice before  
                        the Commission. 
                 
3 
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Peterson's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other person or          
entity in this or any other proceeding.  
 
                                                    2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       2.     In connection with Bally’s 2001-2003 financial statements, Bally engaged in 
fraudulent financial accounting, including prematurely recognizing revenue and improperly 
deferring costs, which overstated income and inflated stockholders’ equity, and implementing 
two improper changes in accounting method rather than restating for accounting errors.  Bally 
also made false and misleading disclosures regarding a $55 million special charge in its 2002 
Form 10-K.  On November 30, 2005, Bally filed its 2004 Form 10-K, which restated its 
previously reported financial statements for 2002 and 2003, and selected financial data for 2000 
and 2001. 
 
       3.     Peterson knew or should have known that E&Y’s unqualified audit opinions 
regarding Bally’s 2001-2003 financial statements -- which stated that E&Y had conducted its 
audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States (“GAAS”) 
and that Bally’s financial statements were presented in conformity with accounting principles 
generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) -- were false because E&Y’s audits of Bally’s 
financial statements were not performed in accordance with GAAS and Bally’s financial 
statements were not in conformity with GAAP.    
        
       4.      As a result of the false and misleading audit opinions, Peterson was a cause of 
Bally’s violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act and Sections 13(a) and 
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13.  
Peterson also was a cause of E&Y’s violation of Section 10A(b) of the Exchange Act by not 
ensuring that E&Y brought to the attention of Bally’s Audit Committee Bally’s false and 
misleading disclosures of the $55 million special charge.    
 
                                          Respondent  
 
       5.      Peterson is, and was at all relevant times, a Certified Public Accountant licensed in  
Illinois.  During the relevant period, Peterson was the Professional Practice Director for the Lake 
Michigan Area and was based in E&Y’s Chicago office.  Peterson also served as the IRP on the 
Bally audits from the fourth quarter 2001 through the first quarter 2004 review. 
 
                                             Issuer  
 
       6.     Bally, a Delaware corporation, purported to be the largest, and only nationwide, 
commercial operator of fitness centers.  At all relevant times, Bally's common stock was 
registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and traded on the 
New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”).  The NYSE delisted Bally's common stock on June 8, 
2007.  After filing for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, on September 
17, 2007, Bally emerged as a privately held reorganized entity.  On February 28, 2008, the 
Commission filed a settled injunctive action against Bally in the United States District Court for 
the District of Columbia, charging Bally with violating Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, 
Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 10b-5, 12b-
20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder.  The District Court issued permanent injunctions on 
May 8, 2008.    
  

                                               3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                          Background  
 
       7.     For many years up until it resigned in 2004, E&Y audited Bally’s financial 
statements.  Bally’s principal source of revenue was selling gym membership contracts, which  
provided customers access to gyms in exchange for the payment of both a one-time initiation fee 
and monthly dues.  The one-time fee was typically several thousand dollars, while the monthly 
dues typically were less than $10 per month.  Most of Bally’s customers financed their initiation 
fees.  To maintain their memberships, customers were required to pay their initiation fee in full 
and pay monthly dues.  The initiation fees were Bally’s biggest source of revenue.  The 
obligation to pay the initiation fee was legally enforceable; there was no legal obligation to pay 
monthly dues beyond the initial contract period.   
 
       8.     E&Y recognized Bally as a risky audit and, from at least 1996 through 2003, 
designated Bally as a “close monitoring” account because Bally presented a risk that created “a 
significant chance the firm [E&Y] will suffer damage to its reputation, monetarily, or both.”  
Bally was designated a close monitoring account for several reasons, including, among other 
things, that Bally’s managers were former E&Y audit partners who were “difficult” and had 
“historically been aggressive in selecting accounting principles and determining estimates;” the 
managers placed undue emphasis on maintaining stock prices; management used 
“(un)reliable . . . estimation process[es] or questionable judgments;" and Bally’s compensation 
plans placed undue emphasis on reported earnings.  E&Y's internal guidance notes that a "history 
of 'aggressive' applications of accounting policies could indicate a predisposition to misstate the 
financial statements." 
 
       9.     In early 2002, E&Y sought to reduce its risk by identifying its riskiest clients and 
resigning from them or otherwise managing the risk they presented to E&Y.  Out of a total of  
over 10,000 audit clients in North America, E&Y identified Bally as one of the riskiest 18 
accounts.  These 18 accounts were so-called “National Focus Accounts” and were monitored by 
the Americas Executive Board.  Not only was Bally identified as a National Focus Account, it 
was identified by Peterson as the riskiest account in E&Y’s Lake Michigan Area.   
 
                   Bally’s Accounting Errors And E&Y’s Audit Failures
  
                           Relating To Fiscal Years 2001 And 2002
  
                                                 
       10.    In connection with fiscal years 2001 and 2002, as well as earlier years, Bally 
engaged in certain practices relating to its recognition of reactivation revenue, initiation fee 
revenue, and deferred costs that made its financial statements false and misleading.  Peterson, 
who knew or should have known of these practices, and other E&Y partners each reviewed and 
authorized E&Y’s issuance of unqualified audit opinions, in violation of GAAS, in connection 
with its audits of such financial statements.    

                           Premature Recognition Of Reactivation Revenues  

       11.    Bally recognized revenue from what it called “reactivations,” which were 
payments from Bally members who had completed their initial contract period, but whose 
memberships were canceled for failure to pay the monthly dues necessary to maintain their 
                                               4
  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

membership.  Bally did not attempt to recover those dues because there was no legal obligation 
to pay dues.  Accordingly, for those canceled members who had completed the initial contract 
period, Bally waited at least six months after receiving their last payment and then began 
soliciting these canceled members to reactivate.  Those who accepted the reactivation offers did 
so, on average, 36 months after having stopped paying monthly dues.  The reactivation offers did 
not contain claims for or seek payment of "past due" amounts.  Instead, they asked for either a 
nominal reactivation fee or no reactivation fee at all, and the payment of monthly dues for a 
period of future service. 

       12.     Bally’s reactivation revenue recognition policy was to project (as of the balance 
sheet date) the reactivation payments it anticipated receiving in the coming year and then 
immediately recognize most of these projected payments by improperly allocating them to past 
periods.  Bally’s reactivation revenue recognition policy was not in conformity with GAAP 
because use of the method enabled Bally to recognize revenue before it was earned and was 
realized or realizable.4
                         Bally recognized revenue before it was earned because, among other 
things, it barred canceled former members from the gyms, and therefore, had not provided 
services to those of its canceled members who might reactivate in the future.  Additionally, Bally 
recognized revenue before it was realized or realizable because it was recognizing revenue for 
reactivations that had not yet occurred, which it anticipated from canceled former members 
whom it could not identify individually and who had no legal obligation to reactivate or pay 
Bally anything at all. 

       13.     In short, Bally violated GAAP by recognizing revenue related to the anticipated 
future payments before the reactivation transactions occurred.  The accounting was clearly not in 
conformity with GAAP, and a reasonable accountant who understood Bally's accrual basis of 
recognizing revenue for "reactivations" would conclude that it was not in conformity with 
GAAP, because Bally was recognizing revenue that was not realized or realizable, and had not 
been earned.  

       14.     For at least six years, E&Y had audited Bally's "reactivation" revenue recognition 
practices.  In each of those years, E&Y provided Bally with an unqualified audit opinion. 

       15.     Peterson knew or should have known that Bally’s accounting policy for 
reactivation revenues was not in conformity with GAAP, yet he and other E&Y partners each 
reviewed and authorized E&Y’s issuance of unqualified opinions regarding Bally’s 2001 and 
2002 financial statements in violation of GAAS.   5 
                                                     

                                                 
4 
 See, e.g., Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43, Restatement and Revision of Accounting Research Bulletins                               
("ARB 43"), Chapter 1A (1953); Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 10, Omnibus Opinion (1966); Statement                                           
of Financial Accounting Concepts No. 5,       Recognition and Measurement in Financial Statements of Business  
Enterprises (1985); Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101,          Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements, Topic 13.A. 
(1999) (“SAB 101”).  
 
5 
 See AICPA’s Codification of Auditing Standards AU § 508,                     Reports on Audited Financial Statements                   , (“AU § 
508”).  
                                                 5
  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                        Premature Recognition of Initiation Fee Revenue  
                                                  
       16.     Members paid a substantial initiation fee in connection with new membership 
contracts.  Beginning in 1997, Bally recognized initiation fee revenue over the estimated average 
membership life, which included an estimate for both the average initial contract period and the 
average renewal period.  Bally computed the weighted average expected membership life to be 
22 months for financed memberships and 36 months for cash memberships. 
 
       17.     Bally’s 1997 computations of the weighted average expected membership life 
were flawed.  A cursory inspection of the computations would have revealed these flaws.  In 
1997, E&Y had checked Bally’s arithmetic and suggested some minor adjustments, but failed to 
test whether Bally's computations produced results that were consistent with reality, and failed to 
determine that Bally’s computation was fundamentally incorrect.  The errors in Bally’s estimates 
had the effect of understating the average membership life.  As a result, Bally’s member life 
estimates improperly accelerated revenue recognition and distorted the economic reality of 
Bally’s business. 
 
       18.     These errors continued through the relevant period.  Peterson knew or should 
have known, that by recognizing initiation fee revenue from financed contracts over 22 months, 
Bally was improperly recognizing revenue before it was earned and realized or realizable in 
contravention of GAAP, yet he and other E&Y partners each reviewed and authorized E&Y’s 
issuance of unqualified opinions regarding Bally’s 2001 and 2002 financial statements in 
violation of GAAS. 
 
                             Deferral Of Member Acquisition Costs  
                                                  
       19.     Bally deferred certain of its costs associated with acquiring new members and 
recognized such costs over the same period that it deferred initiation fee revenue.   

       20.     GAAP requires that any costs deferred must be direct and incremental to the 
acquisition of a new contract or activities directly related to such acquisitions (i.e., they would 
not have been incurred “but for” the acquisition of the contract).  Costs associated with acquiring 
new members are properly deferrable to the extent that they were direct and incremental to the 
acquisition of a new member contract, while all other costs must be expensed as incurred.  6 
                                                                                              
Bally, however, improperly deferred certain costs that were not eligible for deferral.   

       21.     Peterson knew or should have known that Bally was improperly deferring certain 
member acquisition costs, but he and other E&Y partners each reviewed and authorized E&Y’s 
issuance of unqualified opinions regarding Bally’s 2001 and 2002 financial statements in 
violation of GAAS. 

                                                 
6 
 See Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 91, Accounting for Nonrefundable Fees and Costs 
Associated with Originating or Acquiring Loans and Initial Direct Costs of Leases,                                                                        (Dec. 1986); FASB Technical 
Bulletin No. 90-1, Accounting for Separately Priced Extended Warranty and Product Maintenance Contracts,                              (Dec. 
1990); and SAB 101, Topic 13.A.  
                                                 6
  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

      E&Y’s Audits Were Deficient And Not Performed In Accordance With GAAS  

       22.    E&Y’s audits of Bally’s reactivation revenues, initiation fee revenues, and 
deferred acquisition costs were deficient and not performed in accordance with GAAS.  As an 
initial matter, Peterson knew that Bally was a risky client due to, among other things, 
management’s aggressive accounting policies.    
 
       23.    E&Y prepared a memorandum in connection with the FY 2000 audit (the “2000 
memo”), which concluded, improperly, that Bally’s reactivation revenue accrual “does not 
appear to be precluded by SAB 101.”  The memorandum indicated that (a) members who did not 
pay dues after the initial contract period were barred from the gyms after a grace period, and (b) 
these members had no legally enforceable obligation to pay dues after the initial contract period 
or to reactivate their memberships.  Peterson reviewed and approved the memorandum in 
connection with subsequent audits even though he knew or should have known that these facts 
undermined and contradicted the conclusion that the reactivation accrual “does not appear to be 
precluded by SAB 101.”  Peterson should not have concluded that Bally’s reactivation revenue 
policy was in conformity with GAAP and thus Peterson failed to reasonably assess whether 
Bally’s financial statements were presented in conformity with GAAP, as required by GAAS. 

       24.    Peterson also knew or should have known that part of the rationale contained in 
the 2000 memo supporting Bally’s reactivation revenue policy -- that reactivation revenue was a 
continuation of the original contract -- was contrary to a representation that Bally had previously 
made to the Commission staff, in connection with its calculation of the average membership life 
estimate, that reactivation memberships were “in substance and in form, new contractual 
arrangements.”  Peterson did not direct the engagement team  to address or resolve Bally’s 
conflicting revenue recognition treatments of reactivation memberships. 

       25.    Initiation fee revenue was the largest component of Bally’s revenue.  In 1997, 
Bally had committed to the Commission staff that the company would periodically update its 
member life estimates.  Contrary to that commitment, Bally failed to update its member life  
estimates throughout the period that E&Y remained its auditor and Peterson remained the IRP.    

       26.    Peterson knew or should have known of Bally’s failure to keep that commitment.  
In fact, E&Y formally requested Bally to update its member life computations in 1998, 2001, and 
2002, but Bally never did so.  In response to E&Y’s 2001 request, Bally asserted that the 1997 
calculations were still “an appropriate approximation of the current historical average 
membership length” because the original calculation constituted a “35-year historical average.”  
In fact, the 1997 calculation did not constitute a 35-year historical average, but reflected an 
average from a much smaller pool of data.  Peterson knew or should have known that Bally’s 
representations regarding the 1997 calculation were false  

       27.    E&Y failed to perform adequate audit procedures with regard to the renewal 
period estimate and the resulting amortization period.7
                                                       Rather, E&Y simply carried forward the 
1997 estimates pertaining to the average renewal period.  Peterson knew or should have known 
                                                 
7 
 See  AU § 342, Auditing Accounting Estimates          . 
                                               7
  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

of E&Y’s audit failures.  Given the critical nature of this accounting estimate, Peterson’s failure 
to require E&Y to obtain from the Company an update or to arrive at its own independent 
estimate constitutes a departure from GAAS. 

       28.    Peterson also knew or should have known of Bally’s arbitrary and unsupported 
allocation of various costs to the deferred member acquisition cost pool, but he failed to require 
E&Y to perform adequate audit procedures with regard to those deferred member acquisition 
costs. 

       29.    Peterson knew or should have known that Bally’s 2001 and 2002 financial 
statements were not presented in conformity with GAAP, but he failed to require E&Y to qualify 
its opinion or issue an adverse opinion as required by GAAS.    

                         E&Y Seeks To Reduce Its Risk: 2002-2003  
                                                
       30.     In 2001 and 2002, a series of widely-known financial scandals led E&Y to assess 
its audit risks and the firm took steps to identify and resign from or focus on certain of its riskiest 
clients.  Internally, E&Y was communicating the dangers of retaining high risk clients, but even 
though E&Y identified Bally as one of its riskiest clients during the 2002 client continuance 
process, E&Y did not resign from Bally.  Instead, E&Y tried to reduce the risk that Bally’s 
accounting practices posed to E&Y by, among other things, insisting for the first time that Bally 
record the numerous accounting errors that had “historically been [placed by E&Y] on the 
summary of audit differences.” 

       31.     In addition, as a result of the implementation of the “Focus Accounts” program,  
Bally, its accounting, and its retention as an E&Y client came under scrutiny from E&Y regional 
and national management.  E&Y’s National Office, including Peterson, actively participated in 
events relating to Bally’s critical accounting issues.  From  July 2002 through March 2003, E&Y, 
including Peterson, had numerous internal communications and meetings regarding the risks 
posed by Bally generally, as well as particular risky accounting issues, including, among other 
things, Bally’s revenue recognition estimates.  Bally was the subject of a series of meetings with 
E&Y management, including Peterson, and Bally was placed on a list of National Focus 
Accounts for Americas Executive Board attention.  Because of the Focus Account program, 
Peterson knew of Bally’s heightened risk designation and was responsible to engage in 
heightened risk management efforts. 

  Peterson Knew Or Should Have Known Bally Made False And Misleading Disclosures
  
                    Regarding A $55 Million Charge In Fiscal Year 2002
  
 
       32.    As of 2002, Bally’s allowance for doubtful accounts (“ADA”) had long been on 
E&Y’s list of concerns regarding aggressive accounting.  Bally’s estimate of the ADA was 
another area in which management’s estimates appeared aggressive.  Year in and year out, from  
1997 through 2002, Bally consistently used a 41% reserve rate, despite changes in the economy 
and in market conditions.  The resulting ADA was always at the low end of the range that E&Y 
had deemed to be reasonable.   

                                               8
  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

       33.     During the third quarter of 2002, Peterson and others at E&Y determined that 
Bally’s collections had deteriorated substantially, and they advised Bally that it needed to 
increase its ADA in order to cover the shortfall resulting from the deteriorating collections.  
Bally insisted that no change be made to the ADA until the fourth quarter to allow it time to 
obtain waivers of debt covenants provisions from Bally’s lenders.   

       34.     During the fourth quarter of 2002, Bally agreed to increase its ADA by 
$55 million and ultimately presented it as a “special charge” in Bally’s year-end financial 
statements.  In its 2002 Form 10-K, Bally made false and misleading disclosures regarding the 
reasons for the charge, and Peterson knew or should have known that the disclosures were 
improper.  The only reason for the charge cited in the Form 10-K was that Bally’s estimation was 
based on an accelerated monetization scenario which would result in collecting less than book 
value.  No mention was made of the deterioration of the collectability of Bally’s accounts 
receivable portfolio, which had been identified by E&Y as requiring Bally to take a charge.   

       35.     The $55 million special charge virtually eliminated Bally's 2002 earnings.  
Peterson knew or should have known that Bally’s disclosures failed to disclose accurately the 
reasons for the “special charge,” yet he and other E&Y partners did not object and each 
authorized E&Y’s issuance of an unqualified audit opinion upon Bally's 2002 financial 
statements in violation of GAAS. 8
                                    Peterson also failed to require E&Y to tell Bally’s Audit 
Committee about Bally’s false and misleading disclosures.     

    Bally’s Accounting Errors And E&Y’s Audit Failures Relating To Fiscal Year 2003  
                                                 
       36.     In March 2003, after the 2002 audit had concluded but before the company had 
filed its 2002 Form 10-K, E&Y, including Peterson, contemplated resigning from the Bally 
engagement “due to risk issues.”  E&Y decided against resigning in favor of staying on and 
reducing its risk.  

       37.     Following the decision to remain as Bally’s auditor, E&Y, in consultation with 
Peterson, selected the new E&Y audit engagement partner for the Bally audit.  The new 
engagement partner rotated onto the Bally audit engagement in April 2003.  The new 
engagement partner, who was selected because he was experienced and capable of delivering 
tough messages, was instructed to “fix this situation to reduce the firm’s risk.”   

                             Recognition Of Reactivation Revenue  
                                                 
       38.     In June 2003, Bally was in the process of refinancing its bank debt through a 
private debt offering, to be followed by a public exchange offering.  In connection therewith, 
Bally needed E&Y to provide a comfort letter to the underwriters and a consent regarding 
Bally’s use of E&Y’s unqualified audit opinion relating to the 2002 audit.  E&Y, including 
Peterson, told Bally that unless it stopped accruing reactivation revenue, E&Y would not provide  
those documents, which left Bally with no real alternative but to agree to stop accruing  
reactivation revenue.  Even though a few months earlier E&Y, with Peterson’s approval, had 
                                                 
8 
 See  AU § 431, Adequacy of Disclosure in Financial Statements                                ; AU § 508. 
                                                9
  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

issued an unqualified audit opinion regarding Bally's 2002 financial statements that included its 
reactivation revenue accrual, in a June 16, 2003 meeting, E&Y, including Peterson, demanded 
that Bally change its reactivation revenue recognition policy.  That same day, after Peterson and 
other senior E&Y partners consulted with E&Y’s National Office, E&Y agreed to provide Bally 
with a preferability letter stating that the proposed change in reactivation revenue recognition 
policy to a cash basis was a more preferable method of accounting for reactivation revenues. 

       39.    In August 2003, Bally sent E&Y a written request for approval of the proposed 
change in accounting.  Under E&Y’s internal guidance, Peterson and other E&Y partners each 
were required to approve the issuance of E&Y’s preferability letter.  Peterson did so on August 
5, 2003. 

       40.    Peterson knew or should have known that Bally’s change in accounting for 
reactivation revenues was not, in fact, a change in accounting principle, but rather was a 
correction of an error that required a restatement because Bally’s original accrual methodology 
was not in conformity with GAAP.  A change in accounting can only be used to move from a 
GAAP-compliant accounting methodology to a more preferable GAAP-compliant accounting 
methodology; errors in previously issued financial statements cannot be corrected through an 
accounting change. 9
                     Bally’s 2003 financial statements, therefore, improperly included a 
cumulative effect charge of $20.3 million associated with its change in accounting principle 
when its prior years' financial statements should have been restated.  Accordingly, Bally’s 2003 
financial statements were not presented in conformity with GAAP, yet Peterson and other E&Y 
partners each reviewed and authorized E&Y’s issuance of an unqualified audit opinion on 
Bally’s 2003 financial statements in violation of GAAS.   

                             Recognition Of Initiation Fee Revenue  

       41.    For the year-end 2003 audit, E&Y and Peterson turned their attention to Bally's  
other accounting estimates, including the member life estimates used in determining the 
amortization period of initiation fees that Peterson knew or should have known were not in 
conformity with GAAP.  Peterson knew that E&Y had repeatedly identified as a "critical 
accounting policy" Bally's initiation fee revenue recognition methodology.  Given the concerns  
about fraud perpetrated by means of accounting estimates, for the 2003 audit, E&Y planned to 
focus its attention on Bally’s membership revenue recognition methodology.   

       42.    E&Y’s audit planning reflected its awareness that Bally had failed to update its 
member life estimate since 1997 and that the company had ignored both its commitment to the 
Commission staff to do so and E&Y’s repeated recommendations to do so.  Consistent with its 
audit planning concerns about Bally’s aggressive estimates and the risk of financial fraud, E&Y 
requested that Bally provide support for the member life estimate for the 2003 fiscal year.  Despite 
repeated efforts to obtain the information, E&Y never received the requested support. 
 
       43.    Rather than continuing to press Bally for support for its complex accounting 
estimates, at a meeting on January 25, 2004, E&Y, including Peterson, encouraged Bally to 
                                                 
9 
 See APB Opinion No. 20,  Accounting Changes. 
                                               10
  
---------------------Page 11---------------------

change its complex accounting methods, including initiation fee revenues.  E&Y prepared an 
agenda for the January 2004 meeting with Bally; four of the five agenda items related to 
identified audit adjustments that subsequently totaled approximately $260 million. 
 
       44.     At the January 2004 meeting, E&Y, including Peterson, notified Bally that it 
would have to take a charge relating to new accounting guidance that Bally had failed to 
implement during the third quarter of 2003.  E&Y also identified three adjustments that Bally 
would have to book.   E&Y made clear that th  e new accounting guidance would require Bally to  
apply a modified cash basis of accounting to some of its contracts.  As Bally and E&Y discussed 
the proposed change, Bally’s CFO proposed adopting a modified cash basis of accounting for all 
of the company’s membership contracts.  Peterson knew or should have known that the change 
to a modified cash basis for the rest of Bally’s revenue recognition accounting would have the 
effect of allowing Bally to avoid or at least reduce the significance of some of the charges E&Y 
had identified.  The proposed changes would also subsume some of the prior audit failures 
relating to initiation fee revenues. Bally changed its accounting and Peterson and other E&Y 
partners each reviewed and authorized E&Y’s issuance of a preferability letter.  Peterson knew 
or should have known that the preferability letter enabled Bally to improperly avoid a 
restatement with respect to initiation fee revenue.   
 
       45.     Bally’s change from accrual accounting to a modified cash basis of accounting was 
not, in fact, a change in accounting principle, but rather involved a correction of an error that 
required a restatement because Bally’s implementation of the deferral method for recognition of 
initiation fee revenue was not in conformity with GAAP.  Accordingly, Bally’s 2003 financial    
statements were not presented in conformity with GAAP, but Peterson nonetheless reviewed and 
authorized E&Y’s issuance of an unqualified audit opinion on Bally’s 2003 financial statements 
in violation of GAAS.  
 
          E&Y’s Audit Was Deficient And Not Performed In Accordance With GAAS  
 
       46.     E&Y's 2003 audit was deficient and not performed in accordance with GAAS.  
E&Y and Peterson failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to support an opinion 
that Bally's estimates, including the average member life estimates, were reasonable. 10
                                                                                        E&Y 
told Bally's audit committee that GAAS prescribed certain "mandatory procedures," including: 
"reviewing accounting estimates for biases that could result in material misstatement due to 
fraud, including retrospective review of significant prior year estimates. . . ."   
 
       47.     E&Y and Peterson also did not follow up on evidence that Bally's average 
member life estimates were biased and unsubstantiated. 
 
       48.     The change in accounting to a modified cash basis resulted in Bally recording a 
cumulative effect adjustment (“CEA”) of more than $441 million, which was much more than 
the effect of the identified audit adjustments referred to above, but allowed Bally to provide a 
                                                 
10 
  See  AU § 230, Due Professional Care         ; AU § 326,  Evidential Matter (“AU § 326”); AU § 333A,   Management 
Representations. 
  
                                               11
  
---------------------Page 12---------------------

positive explanation for the effect.  Given that a significant amount of the CEA related to how 
Bally had amortized the initiation fees over a period of less than two years, Peterson should have 
directed the engagement team to question how two supposedly GAAP-compliant methodologies 
resulted in such a material disparity in earnings.  Nonetheless, he failed to do so.  If he had 
followed up, Peterson would have determined that Bally’s prior calculation of the member life 
estimates was not reasonable and the Company’s straight-line amortiza tion of the financed 
membership initiation fees over a 22-month period was not in conformity with GAAP. 

       49.    Just as E&Y’s issuance of a preferability letter with regard to the change in 
accounting for reactivation dues was improper, so too was its issuance of a preferability letter 
with regard to the change to a modified cash basis for initiation fees.  By the time E&Y began 
the 2003 audit, Peterson knew or should have known of the issues associated with the average 
member life estimate that required vigorous audit procedures, yet he failed to require E&Y to 
respond adequately. 

       50.    Peterson knew or should have known that Bally’s 2003 financial statements were 
not presented in conformity with GAAP, and he failed to require E&Y to qualify its opinion or 
issue an adverse opinion as required by GAAS. 

Peterson Knew Or Should Have Known Bally Made Improper Disclosures Concerning The 
                 Lack Of Disagreements And Reportable Events With E&Y   
                                                 
       51.    When an auditor to a public company resigns, Item 304 of Regulation S-K 
requires both the company and the auditor to disclose whether any "disagreements" or 
"reportable events" occurred in the two most recent fiscal years or any subsequent interim period.   
The term “disagreements” is interpreted broadly, to include any difference of opinion concerning 
any matter of accounting principles or practices, financial statement disclosure, or auditing scope 
or procedures which (if not resolved to the former auditor’s satisfaction) would have caused it to 
make reference to the issue in its audit opinion.  The term “reportable events” includes events 
such as the auditor having advised the company that it questions the reliability of (1) the 
company’s financial statements, (2) management’s representations, or (3) the company’s internal 
controls.  Item 304 also requires the former auditor to file a letter stating whether it agrees with 
the company’s Item 304 disclosures and, if not, stating the areas of disagreement. 
   
       52.    In March 2004, Peterson, and other senior E&Y partners, including the 
Engagement Partner, and the Director of the Professional Practice Group, participated in a 
meeting during which they decided to resign as Bally’s auditor.  A memorandum prepared by the 
Engagement Partner for the meeting, and given to Peterson and others to review and comment 
prior to the meeting, identified reasons for resigning, including the engagement team’s distrust of 
Bally’s senior financial management; its concerns regarding the company’s internal controls and 
accuracy of accounting records and the accuracy of management’s accounting estimates.  In 
addition, Peterson knew of contentious discussions with Bally’s management over various 
issues, including E&Y’s demand that Bally end its practice of recognizing revenue from 
reactivations that Bally projected would occur in the future.   

                                               12
  
---------------------Page 13---------------------

 
       53.    Following the internal E&Y meeting, E&Y advised Bally’s Audit Committee that 
it would resign from the engagement because of concerns regarding management’s tone, the 
company’s need to demonstrate more concern regarding internal control issues and the accuracy 
of its accounting records, and the accuracy of management’s estimates.  
 
       54.    In Bally’s 2003 Form 10-K disclosure, the Company announced E&Y’s 
resignation but represented that there were no disagreements or reportable events.  Similarly, 
E&Y filed a letter with the Commission stating that it agreed with Bally’s statements there had 
been no disagreements or reportable events with Bally’s management.    
 
       55.     The events described above reflect “disagreements” and "reportable events” that 
were required to be disclosed under Item 304 of Regulation S-K.  Peterson knew or should have 
known that these disagreements and reportable events were required to be disclosed, but did not 
object to the representations in Bally’s 2003 Form 10-K stating there had been no 
"disagreements" or "reportable events;” or prevent E&Y from issuing a letter agreeing with the 
Company’s Item 304 disclosures. 
 
                                           Violations  
                                                 
       56.    Section 17(a)(2) of the Securities Act prohibits obtaining money or property by 
means of untrue statements of material fact or misleading omissions of material fact in the offer 
or sale of securities.  Section 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act prohibits engaging in transactions, 
practices or courses of business which operate or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon the 
purchaser in the offer or sale of securities.  Information is material where there is a substantial 
likelihood that a reasonable investor would consider the information important in making an 
investment decision.  Basic, Inc. v. Levinson, 485 U.S. 224, 231-32 (1988).  Establishing 
violations of Section 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) does not require a showing of scienter.  Aaron v. SEC, 
446 U.S. 680, 697 (1980). 
 
       57.    Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 
thereunder require all issuers with securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act to 
file annual, current and quarterly reports on Form 10-K, Form 8-K and Form10-Q, respectively.  
Exchange Act Rule 12b-20 further requires that, in addition to the information expressly required 
to be included in such reports, the issuer must include such additional material information as  
may be necessary to make the required statements, in light of the circumstances under which 
they were made, not misleading.  The obligation to file these periodic reports includes the 
obligation that they be complete and accurate in all material respects.  See, e.g., SEC v. IMC 
Int’l, Inc., 384 F. Supp. 889, 893 (N.D. Tex.), aff’d mem., 505 F.2d 733 (5th
                                                                            Cir. 1974).  No 
showing of scienter is necessary to establish a violation of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and 
Rules 13a-1, 13a-11, 13a-13 and 12b-20.  See SEC v. McNulty, 137 F.3d 732, 740-741 (2d Cir. 
1998). 
 

                                               13
  
---------------------Page 14---------------------

       58.    Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to “make and keep 
books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the issuer.”   
 
       59.    Bally violated Section 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act and Sections 13(a) 
and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder by, 
among other things, prematurely recognizing income and improperly deferring costs which 
resulted in its books and records being false, failing to maintain accurate books and records and  
including misleading financial statements and information in annual, quarterly and current 
reports filed with the Commission in connection with fiscal years 2001 through 2003. 
        
       60.    Peterson was a cause of Bally’s violations.  For each of the years 2001-2003, 
Peterson reviewed and authorized E&Y’s issuance of audit reports containing unqualified 
opinions stating that E&Y had conducted an audit of the company’s annual financial statements 
in accordance with GAAS and that Bally’s financial statements were presented in conformity 
with GAAP.  These audit reports were included in Bally’s Forms 10-K for 2001-2003.  However, 
Peterson knew or should have known that E&Y’s audit reports were false and misleading 
because E&Y failed to conduct its audits in accordance with GAAS and Bally was engaged in 
accounting practices and disclosures that were not in conformity with GAAP.   
 
       61.    In auditing Bally’s accounting practices relating to reactivation revenue, initiation 
fee revenue and deferred acquisition costs, Peterson failed under GAAS to exercise due 
professional care and skepticism, failed to ensure that E&Y obtained sufficient competent 
evidential matter, and substituted managements’ representations for competent evidence 
supporting the accounting.  Peterson failed to insist that Bally provide support for certain of these 
estimates, nor did Peterson require that the engagement team perform sufficient audit procedures 
to test and determine whether these accounting actions resulted in appropriate recognition of 
revenue. Had he done so, he would have reasonably determined that these accounting practices 
were not in conformity with GAAP.    
 
       62.    Despite these accounting and audit failures, and in further violation of GAAS, 
Peterson did not require E&Y to express a qualified or adverse audit opinion, or refuse by 
disclaimer to express any opinion at all, but instead issued audit reports that contained 
unqualified opinions on Bally’s 2001-2003 financial statements.  Peterson also knew or should 
have known that Bally was making false and misleading disclosures such as in connection with 
its $55 million special charge.  Nor did Peterson propose that Bally correct its improper 
accounting.in the quarterly financial statements that E&Y reviewed during 2001-2003.  Peterson 
also authorized E&Y to improperly issue preferability letters that allowed Bally to switch its 
accounting policies for reactivation revenue and initiation fee revenue instead of restating for 
errors relating to that accounting.  Accordingly, Peterson’s failure to comply with GAAS was a 
cause of Bally’s violations of Section 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act and Sections 13(a) 
and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder.  
 
       63.    Peterson also was a cause of E&Y’s violation of  Section 10A(b) of the Exchange 
Act in connection with Bally’s failure to disclose that the $55 million special charge recorded in 

                                               14
  
---------------------Page 15---------------------

its FY 2002 financial statements was due to a deterioration in the collectability of the Company’s 
receivables.  Peterson failed to require E&Y to report this illegal act to the Audit Committee in 
accordance with Section 10A(b).  
          
                                             Findings  
 
       As a result of the conduct described above, Peterson engaged in improper professional 
conduct through repeated instances of improper professional conduct pursuant to Rules  
102(e)(1)(ii) and 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and was a cause of 
Bally's violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act and Sections 13(a) and  
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder.   
Peterson also was a cause of E&Y’s violation   of Section 10A(b) of the Exchange Act by not 
ensuring that E&Y brought to the attention of Bally’s Audit Committee Bally’s false and 
misleading disclosures of the $55 million special charge.    
     
                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Peterson’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
       A.      Peterson cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future 
violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act, and from causing any violations and 
any future violations of Sections 10A(b), 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules                                                                       
12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder; 
 
       B.      Peterson is denied the privilege of ap pearing or practicing before the Commission 
as an accountant pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) and Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2);  
 
                    C. After 2 years from the date of this order, Peterson may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the  
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                                1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Peterson’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
      
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      

                                                15
  
---------------------Page 16---------------------

                            (a)   Peterson, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight               Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                          (b)     Peterson, or the registered pub     lic accounting firm with which he is 
associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of 
or potential defects in Peterson’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that the 
Peterson will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                                                 (c) Peterson has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                          (d)     Peterson acknowledges his       responsibility, as long as Peterson 
appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
 
                    D. The Commission will consider an application by Peterson to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Peterson’s character, 
integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission.  
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                              M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                        
 

                                                       16
  
