---------------------Page 1---------------------

                               UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                            Before the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 9691 / December 16, 2014 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 73852 / December 16, 2014 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3614 / December 16, 2014 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16319 
                                                   ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC   
                                                   ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE - 
                                                    AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS 
In the Matter of                                    PURSUANT TO  SECTION  8A OF THE 
                                                    SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECTIONS   
       ANGEL E. LANA , CPA,                         4C AND 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                                    EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND RULE 
Respondent.                                        102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES 
                                                                                               
                                                    
                                                                                       
                                                                     
                                                      
                                                 I. 
 
        The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Angel E. 
Lana, CPA (“Respondent” or “Lana”) pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 
                               1
(“Securities Act”), Sections 4C  and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 
                                                                    2
Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  

                                                 
1
       Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
               The Commission may censure any      person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, 
               to any person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in 
               any way, if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications 
               to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to have 
               engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully 
               violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the 
               securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                  II. 
 
        In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (“Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of 
these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are 
admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondent consents to the entry of this 
Order Instituting Public Administrative and Cease-And-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A 
of the Securities Act of 1933, Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and 
Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions and a Cease-And-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                                 III. 
 
                                                                                   3
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that:  
 
A.     RESPONDENT 
 
       1.      Lana, age 56, is a resident of Boca Raton, Florida.  He is a certified public 
accountant (“CPA”) licensed to practice in the State of Florida since 1981.  Lana has worked as a 
sole practitioner since 1986, and has performed accounting work for several public companies.  
Lana also has an affiliation with an accounting  firm that represents public companies.  From May 
2011 to 2014, Lana served as Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) of Aurum Mining, LLC (“Aurum”).  
Lana was also one of three managers of Aurum and was to receive an aggregate compensation of 
$288,000 for his services to Aurum during the relevant period, which remains unpaid.  
        

                                                                                                                                                             
        
2
       Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
               The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
               appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found…to have 
               willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of any provision of 
               the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
3
       The findings herein   are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not 
       binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   

                                                  2 
                                                    
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
        
        
B.     RELEVANT PERSONS 
               
       2.     Alexandre S. Clug (“Clug”), age 46, was a resident of Miami, Florida and Lima, 
Peru during the relevant period.  Clug is a principal and manager of Aurum.  Clug did not hold any 
securities industry licenses during the relevant period.     
        
       3.     Michael W. Crow (“Crow”), age 55, was a resident of Miami, Florida and Lima, 
Peru during the relevant period.  Crow was a principal and manager of Aurum until early 2014.  
Crow also owns and controls three Peruvian entities, named Alta Mining, S.A.C., AlterTerra, 
S.A.C. and Grupo Alta, S.A.C.  Since 1998, Crow has been barred from serving or acting as an 
officer or director of a public company and from appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant.  SEC v. Crow, 96-cv-1661 (S.D. Cal.); In re Michael W. Crow, Exchange Act Rel. 
No. 39902 (Apr. 22, 1998).   In 2008, Crow was also barred from associating with any broker, 
dealer or investment adviser.  SEC v. Crow, 07-cv-3814 (S.D.N.Y.); In re Michael W. Crow, 
Initial Dec. Rel. No. 376 (Apr. 22, 2009).  In 2010, Crow filed for personal bankruptcy.  
        
       4.     Aurum is a Nevada limited liability company established in April 2011, with its 
principal place of business in Miami, Florida.  Aurum established several subsidiaries in Peru 
during the relevant period, including Aurum Mining Peru, S.A., Admiral Cove Partners, S.A, Alta 
Gold, S.A., Carolina Gold, S.A., and Oceano Pacifico Minerales, S.A.  Crow and Clug each owned 
50% of Aurum’s voting shares and controlled Aurum’s finances and operations during the relevant 
period.  Crow, Clug and Lana served as the managers of Aurum.  Aurum was not registered with 
the Commission in any capacity during the relevant period.     
        
C.     FACTS 
        
       5.     Lana became involved with Aurum through Clug.  In April 2011, Lana accepted 
Clug’s invitation to be the CFO of Aurum.  Lana knew that Clug and Crow were the principals of 
Aurum.  Since early 2011, Lana knew that Crow had been barred from serving or acting as an 
officer or director of a public company and from associating with any broker, dealer or investment 
adviser.  Sometime in 2012, Lana also knew that Crow was in bankruptcy. 
        
       6.     In April 2011, Clug told Lana that he had identified a gold mining opportunity in 
Brazil for Aurum.  At the time, Lana, Clug and Crow had no experience in mining or geology.  
Clug also told Lana that Aurum required capital to fund the Brazil venture and asked Lana to help 
raise funds for Aurum.   
        
       7.     Lana used a term sheet dated May 10, 2011 to solicit investors, including his tax 
clients, to invest in Aurum.  Between May and June 2011, Aurum raised $250,000 from nine 
investors in exchange for convertible notes issued by Aurum and secured by Aurum’s minimal 
assets.  The notes offered investors 8% return with a nine month maturity date.  The notes also 

                                               3 
                                                 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

offered investors an option to convert their notes into equity at a 50% discount or $2.50 per share at 
the earlier of the “Close” or maturity.  The notes defined the “Close” as “the financing and closing 
of the acquisition on the land rights and mining rights for the [Brazilian] Gold project.”  
        
       8.      In August 2011, Lana, Crow and Clug started soliciting investors to invest in non-
voting equity membership units in Aurum.  They provided investors, including some of the 
convertible noteholders, with a Private Placement Memorandum dated August 1, 2011 (the 
“August 2011 PPM”).  The August 2011 PPM provided a detailed description of Crow’s 
professional background, including his designation as a CPA and his work experience prior to 
becoming president and chairman of a public company that led to his officer and director bar.  
However, the PPM omitted Crow’s role and activities at that public company, his history of 
securities law violations, his pending bankruptcy, and the fact that his CPA license had expired.  
The August 2011 PPM identified Lana as one of the managers of Aurum, along with Crow and 
Clug.   
        
       9.      The August 2011 PPM stated that closing would not occur and investor funds 
would be escrowed until at least $1 million had been raised in the equity offering and “certain 
closing conditions” relating to the Brazilian gold project had been satisfied. 
 
       10.    The “closing conditions” in the August 2011 PPM required that Aurum:  (1) enter 
into a joint venture with its Brazilian partners; (2) receive a geological report from a qualified and 
licensed geologist stating the gold content in the Brazilian property; and (3) obtain from Brazilian 
legal counsel an opinion stating that, among other things, the joint venture owned or had 
irrevocable rights to the land and mining rights, and had received the required licenses from the 
Brazilian government. 
        
       11.    Between mid-January and February 2012, Aurum sent another PPM dated 
December 31, 2011 (the “December 2011 PPM”) and a PPM “update” letter (“PPM Update 
Letter”) to investors, mostly convertible noteholders.  The PPM Update Letter recommended that 
the convertible noteholders convert their notes into equity and they all did.      
        
       12.    However, the December 2011 PPM and the PPM Update Letter misled investors 
about Aurum’s ownership interest in the Brazilian property and the amount of gold contained in 
the property.  The December 2011 PPM and PPM Update Letter also contained material 
misrepresentations and omissions concerning, among other things: (a) the use of investor proceeds; 
(b) test results and financial projections relating to the Brazilian property; (c) the acquisition of 
other gold properties in Peru; and (d) Crow’s bankruptcy and securities litigation background.  
Furthermore, the PPM Update Letter falsely stated that Aurum had “satisfied the conditions of 
closing on the Aurum original PPM,” referring to the closing conditions of the August 2011 PPM.  
This representation was false because Aurum never acquired an interest in the Brazilian property, 
nor did it obtain the required licenses from the Brazilian government or the geological report from 
a qualified and licensed geologist stating the total gold content in the Brazilian property.   
        

                                                4 
                                                  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       13.      As CFO and manager of Aurum, Lana failed to take any steps to ascertain whether 
the closing conditions in the August 2011 PPM were met.  For instance, Lana did not seek any 
evidence or written confirmation of Brazilian counsel’s opinion, the required licenses and the 
geological report specified in the August 2011 PPM.   
        
       14.    As CFO, Lana also failed to safeguard investor proceeds against misuse and 
allowed Clug and Crow unfettered access to investor funds.  For instance, Lana knew or should 
have known that Crow and Clug used a majority of the funds raised from the convertible 
noteholders to personally benefit themselves instead of using the funds for due diligence activities 
on the Brazilian property, as promised to investors.  Lana also knew or should have known that 
Crow and Clug used a substantial amount of the investor proceeds from the equity offering to 
personally benefit themselves while Aurum had failed to fulfill the closing conditions.   
        
       15.    The Aurum operating agreement annexed to the PPMs required the managers to 
send to investors annual audited and unaudited balance sheets and income statements.  Lana, as 
Aurum’s CFO, had access to these financial statements but failed to provide them to investors. 
        
       16.    From August 2011 to September 2012, Aurum raised approximately $2.2 million 
from at least 20 investors in Florida, Connecticut and California. 
        
       17.     By September 2012, Aurum had substantially depleted the proceeds from 
investors.  Aurum then prepared a new PPM dated September 15, 2012 (“September 2012 PPM”) 
to raise $1 million purportedly to build a mineral processing plant and launch mining operations in 
Peru.  Subsequently, Aurum prepared another PPM dated January 1, 2013 (“January 2013 PPM”), 
a Confidential Information Memorandum (“CIM”), and an Aurum Business Plan dated January 30, 
2013 (“Aurum Business Plan”), to raise an additional $1 million, also purportedly to build a 
mineral processing plant and launch mining operations in Peru.   
        
       18.    The September 2012 PPM, January 2013 PPM, CIM, and Aurum Business Plan 
contained material misrepresentations and omissions about Aurum’s ownership interest, test 
results, financial projections, the timing of production, and cash flow on the Peruvian mineral 
concessions acquired by Aurum.    
        
       19.    From September 2012 to November 2013, Aurum raised approximately $1.5 
million from at least 10 investors in Florida, Connecticut, California, New Jersey, and the United 
Kingdom.  
        
       20.    Furthermore, from May 2012 to July 2013, Aurum prepared and disseminated 
quarterly reports to “update” existing and prospective Aurum investors.  Through these quarterly 
reports, Aurum misled investors about its ownership interests in various mineral properties in 
Brazil and Peru, the test results obtained from those properties, and the timing of production and 
cash flow associated with those properties.  
 

                                                5 
                                                 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       21.    Lana was negligent in soliciting investors for Aurum using materially false and 
misleading documents.  Lana was the CFO and a manager of Aurum, and he participated in the 
review and approval of Aurum’s offering documents.  As a result, Lana knew or should have 
known about Crow’s bankruptcy and previous securities laws violations, Aurum’s failures in 
Brazil, and Crow and Clug’s use of the offering proceeds to benefit themselves in spite of Aurum’s 
failures in Brazil.  Due to these red flags, Lana should have investigated whether the offering 
documents he used to solicit investors for Aurum contained inaccurate or misleading 
representations.  Lana failed to do so.  
        
       22.    To date, the Aurum investors have not received any return on their investments.      
 
D.     VIOLATIONS  
 
       Sections 17(a) (2) and 17(a) (3) of the Securities Act prohibit a person, in the offer or sale 
of any securities, directly or indirectly, to obtain money or property by means of any untrue 
statement of a material fact or any omission to state a material fact necessary in order to make the 
statements make, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; or to 
engage in any transaction, practice, or course of business which operates or would operate as a 
fraud or deceit upon the purchaser.  By his conduct described above, Lana willfully violated 
Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act.   
        
E.     FINDINGS 
 
       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Lana willfully violated Sections 
17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act. 
 
                                          Undertakings 
                                                  
       Lana has undertaken to: 
        
       Forego any compensation due to him from Aurum and any entity owned or controlled, 
directly or indirectly, by either Crow or Clug or both, during the relevant period; and 
        
       Cease raising any funds for Aurum and any entity owned or controlled, directly or 
indirectly, by either Crow or Clug or both. 
        
       In determining whether to accept the Offer, the Commission has considered these 
undertakings. 
 
                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Lana’s Offer. 
 

                                                6 
                                                  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Lana shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Section 17(a) of  the Securities Act. 
 
       B.      Lana is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.  
 
       C.      After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
                      review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with 
                      the Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                      Respondent’s work in his practice before the Commission will be 
                      reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
                      for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he 
                      practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
                      Commission that: 
      
                      (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
                              associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting 
                              Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley 
                              Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
                              is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection 
                              did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in 
                              Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
                              indicate that Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
                              has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions 
                              imposed by the Board (other than reinstatement by the 
                              Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
                              Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an 
                              independent accountant, to comply with all requirements of the 
                              Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
                              requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring 
                              partner reviews and quality control standards.   
                                                7 
                                                  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 
       D.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 
        
       E.      Respondent shall pay a civil penalty of $50,000.  Payment shall be made in the 
following installments:  $15,000 within ten (10) calendar days of the date of this Order, and 
$35,000 within one (1) year of the date of this Order.  If any payment is not made by the date the 
payment is required by this Order, the entire outstanding balance, plus any additional interest 
accrued pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, shall be due and payable immediately, without further 
application.  Payment must be made in one of the following ways:   
        
               (1)    Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                      will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
        
               (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
        
               (3)     Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
               Enterprise Services Center 
               Accounts Receivable Branch 
               HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
               6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
               Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
               Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter 
               identifying Angel E. Lana as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file 
               number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order 
               must be sent to Amelia Cottrell, Associate Regional Director, Division of 
               Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 200 Vesey Street, Suite 400, 
               Brookfield Place, New York, NY 10281.     
        
       F.      Such civil money penalty may be distributed pursuant to Section 308(a) of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (“Fair Fund distribution”).  Regardless of whether any 
such Fair Fund distribution is made, amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant 
to this Order shall be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax 

                                                8 
                                                 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

purposes.  To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any 
Related Investor Action, he shall not argue that he is entitled to, nor shall he benefit by, offset or 
reduction of any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s 
payment of a civil penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”).  If the court in any Related Investor 
Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that he shall, within 30 days after entry of 
a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the 
amount of the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall 
not be deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil 
penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” 
means a private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more 
investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the 
Commission in this proceeding. 
 
       G.      Respondent acknowledges that the Commission is not imposing a civil penalty in 
excess of $50,000 based upon his agreement to cooperate in a Commission investigation and/or 
related enforcement action.  If at any time following the entry of the Order, the Division of 
Enforcement (“Division”) obtains information indicating that Respondent knowingly provided 
materially false or misleading information or materials to the Commission or in a related 
proceeding, the Division may, at its sole discretion and with prior notice to the Respondent, 
petition the Commission to reopen this matter and seek an order directing that the Respondent pay 
an additional civil penalty.  Respondent may contest by way of defense in any resulting 
administrative proceeding whether he knowingly provided materially false or misleading 
information, but may not:  (1) contest the findings in the Order; or (2) assert any defense to liability 
or remedy, including, but not limited to, any statute of limitations defense. 
 
                                                V. 

       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by 
Respondent, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other 
amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree 
or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by 
Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set 
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 

 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                     Brent J. Fields 
                                                     Secretary 

                                                 9 
                                                   
