---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                STATES OF AMERICA 
 
                                         Before the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No.  9096 / December 17, 2009 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 61196 / December 17, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3087 / December 17, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-13725 
 
                                                ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC  
In the Matter of                               ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-AND-
                                               DESIST PROCEEDINGS, PURSUANT TO 
       ERNST & YOUNG LLP                       SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT 
                                               OF 1933, SECTIONS 4C AND 21C OF THE  
Respondent.                                    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, 
                                                AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                               MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                               REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-
                                               AND-DESIST ORDER  
  
                                              I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, 
instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Sections 4C1
                                                                                          and 
21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the  
Commission’s Rules of Practice against Ernst & Young LLP (“Respondent”).  2 
                                                                             
                                                 
1
 Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:    
 
       The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the privilege                       
of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way,  if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the   
requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be   lacking in character or integrity, or to have engaged in  
unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have   willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the 
violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.   
 
2 
 Rule 102(e)(1) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
       The Commission may censure a person or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or   
       practicing before it . . . to any person who is found…   
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                 II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sec    tion 8A of the Securities Act of  
1933, Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and Rule 102(e) of the  
Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Finding    s, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a 
Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                                III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds    3
                                                                                   that:  
 
                                             Summary  
 
       1.      This matter involves violations of the federal securities laws by Ernst & Young 
LLP (“E&Y”) while serving as public auditor for Bally Total Fitness Holding Corporation 
(“Bally”) from 2001 through 2004.  In connection with Bally’s 2001-2003 financial statements, 
Bally engaged in fraudulent financial accounting, including prematurely recognizing revenue and 
improperly deferring costs, which overstated income and inflated    stockholders’ equity.  Bally 
also made false and misleading disclosures regarding a $55 million special charge in its 2002 
Form 10-K.  On November 30, 2005, Bally filed its 2004 Form 10-K, which restated its 
previously reported financial statements for 2002 and 2003, and selected financial data for 2000 
and 2001. 
 
       2.      Notwithstanding that it knew or should have known of Bally’s fraudulent 
financial accounting and false and misleading disclosures, E&Y issued unqualified audit 
opinions regarding Bally’s 2001-2003 financial statements, which stated that E&Y had 
conducted its audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United 
States (“GAAS”) and that Bally’s financial statements were presented in conformity with 
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”).  Contrary to the audit 
opinions, E&Y’s audits of Bally’s financial statements were not performed in accordance with 
GAAS and Bally’s financial statements were not in conformity with GAAP.   
        
                                                                                                                                                             
        
                                                    *** 
        
       (iii) to have willfully violated, or  willfully aided and abetted the violation of any provision of the Federal  
       securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.  
 
3 
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other    
person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   
                                                 2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       3.     By issuing these false and misleading audit opinions, E&Y was a cause of and 
aided and abetted Bally’s violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act and 
Sections 13(a) and (b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-
11, and 13a-13.  E&Y also violated Section 10A  of the Exchange Act by not bringing to the 
attention of Bally’s Audit Committee Bally’s false and misleading disclosures of the $55 million 
special charge. 
 
                                          Respondent  
 
       4.     Ernst & Young LLP was Bally’s independent auditor throughout the relevant 
period.  On March 30, 2004, Bally announced that E&Y had resigned as its independent auditor.  
   
                                             Issuer  
 
       5.           Bally Total Fitness Holding Corporati on, a Delaware corporation, purported to be 
the largest, and only nationwide, commercial operator of fitness centers.  At all relevant times, 
Bally's common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the 
Exchange Act and traded on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”).  The NYSE delisted 
Bally's common stock on June 8, 2007.  After filing for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the 
Bankruptcy Code, on September 17, 2007, Bally emerged as a privately held reorganized entity.  
On February 28, 2008, the Commission filed a settled injunctive action against Bally in the 
United States District Court for the District of Columbia, charging Bally with violating Section 
17(a) of the Securities Act, Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange 
Act, and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder.  The District Court issued 
permanent injunctions on May 8, 2008.       
  
                                          Background  
 
       6.     For many years up until it resigned in 2004, E&Y audited Bally’s financial 
statements.  Bally’s principal source of revenue was selling gym membership contracts, which  
provided customers access to gyms in exchange for the payment of both a one-time initiation fee 
and monthly dues.  The one-time fee was typically several thousand dollars, while the monthly 
dues typically were less than $10 per month.  Most of Bally’s customers financed their initiation 
fees.  To maintain their memberships, customers were required to pay their initiation fee in full 
and pay monthly dues.  The initiation fees were Bally’s biggest source of revenue.  The 
obligation to pay the initiation fee was legally enforceable; there was no legal obligation to pay 
monthly dues beyond the initial contract period.   
 
       7.     E&Y recognized Bally as a risky audit and, from at least 1996 through 2003, 
designated Bally as a “close monitoring” account because Bally presented a risk that created “a 
significant chance the firm [E&Y] will suffer damage to its reputation, monetarily, or both.”  
Bally was designated a close monitoring account for several reasons, including, among other 
things, that Bally’s managers were former E&Y audit partners who were “difficult” and had 
“historically been aggressive in selecting accounting principles and determining estimates;” the 
managers placed undue emphasis on maintaining stock prices; management used “(un)reliable 

                                               3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 . . .  estimation process[es] or questionable judgments;" and Bally’s compensation plans placed 
undue emphasis on reported earnings.  E&Y's internal guidance notes that a "history of 
'aggressive' applications of accounting policies could indicate a predisposition to misstate the 
financial statements." 
 
       8.     In early 2002, E&Y sought to reduce its risk by identifying its riskiest clients and 
resigning from them or otherwise managing the risk they presented to E&Y.  Out of a total of  
over 10,000 audit clients in North America, E&Y identified Bally as one of the riskiest 18 
accounts.  These 18 accounts were so-called “National Focus Accounts” and were monitored by 
the Americas Executive Board.  Not only was Bally identified as a National Focus Account, it 
was identified as the riskiest account in E&Y’s Lake Michigan Area.   
 
                    Bally’s Accounting Errors and E&Y’s Audit Failures
  
                           Relating to Fiscal Years 2001 and 2002
  
                                                 
       9.     In connection with fiscal years 2001 and 2002, as well as earlier years, Bally 
engaged in certain practices relating to its recognition of reactivation revenue, initiation fee 
revenue, and deferred costs that made its financial statements false and misleading.  E&Y, which 
knew or should have known of these practices, issued unqualified audit opinions in connection 
with its audits of such financial statements.  

                           Premature Recognition of Reactivation Revenues  

       10.    Bally recognized revenue from what it called “reactivations,” which were 
payments from Bally members who had completed their initial contract period, but whose 
memberships were canceled for failure to pay the monthly dues necessary to maintain their 
membership.  Bally did not attempt to recover those dues because there was no legal obligation 
to pay dues.  Accordingly, for those canceled members who had completed the initial contract 
period, Bally waited at least six months after receiving their last payment and then began 
soliciting these canceled members to reactivate.  Those who accepted the reactivation offers did 
so, on average, 36 months after having stopped paying monthly dues.  The reactivation offers did 
not contain claims for or seek payment of "past due" amounts.  Instead, they asked for either a 
nominal reactivation fee or no reactivation fee at all, and the payment of monthly dues for a 
period of future service. 

       11.    Bally’s reactivation accounting policy was to project (as of the balance sheet date) 
the reactivation payments it anticipated receiving in the coming year and then immediately 
recognize most of these projected payments by improperly allocating them to past periods.  
Bally’s reactivation accounting was not in conformity with GAAP because Bally recognized 
revenue before it was earned and was realized or realizable.  Bally recognized revenue before it 
was earned because, among other things, it barred canceled former members from the gyms, and 
therefore, had not provided services to those of its canceled members who might reactivate in the 
future.  Additionally, Bally recognized revenue before it was realized or realizable because it was 
recognizing revenue for reactivations that had not yet occurred, which it anticipated from  
canceled former members whom it could not identify individually and who had no legal 
obligation to reactivate or pay Bally anything at all.  In short, Bally violated GAAP by  
                                                4
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

recognizing revenue related to the anticipated future payments before the reactivation 
transactions occurred. 

       12.    E&Y knew or should have known that Bally’s accounting policy for reactivation 
revenues was not in conformity with GAAP, yet it issued unqualified opinions regarding Bally’s 
2001 and 2002 financial statements.     

                       Premature Recognition of Initiation Fee Revenue   
                                                
       13.    Members paid a substantial initiation fee in connection with new membership 
contracts.  Beginning in 1997, Bally recognized initiation fee revenue over the estimated average 
membership life, which included an estimate for both the average initial contract period and the 
average renewal period.  Bally computed the weighted average expected membership life to be 
22 months for financed memberships and 36 months for cash memberships. 
 
       14.    Bally’s 1997 computations of the weighted average expected membership life 
were flawed.  A cursory inspection of the computations would have revealed these flaws.  In 
1997, E&Y had checked Bally’s arithmetic and suggested some minor adjustments, but had 
failed to test whether Bally's computations produced results that were consistent with reality, and 
failed to determine that Bally’s computation was fundamentally incorrect.  The errors in Bally’s 
estimates had the effect of understating the average membership life.  As a result, Bally’s 
member life estimates improperly accelerated revenue recognition and distorted the economic 
reality of Bally’s business. 
 
       15.    These errors continued through the relevant period and E&Y knew or should have 
known that by recognizing initiation fee revenue from financed contracts over 22 months, Bally 
was improperly recognizing revenue before it was earned and realized or realizable in 
contravention of GAAP. 
                                                
         E&Y’s Audits Were Deficient and Not Performed in Accordance with GAAS  

       16.    E&Y’s audits of Bally’s reactivation accounting and initiation fee revenues were 
deficient and not performed in accordance with GAAS.  As an initial matter, E&Y knew that 
Bally was a risky client due to, among other things, management’s aggressive accounting 
policies.   

       17.    E&Y prepared a memorandum in connection with the FY 2000 audit, which 
concluded, improperly, that Bally’s reactivation revenue accrual “does not appear to be  
precluded by SAB 101.”   The memorandum indicated that (a) members who did not pay dues  
after the initial contract period were barred from the gyms after a grace period, and (b) these 
members had no legally enforceable obligation to pay dues after the initial contract period or to 
reactivate their memberships.  E&Y knew or should have known that these facts undermined and 
contradicted the conclusion that the reactivation accrual “does not appear to be precluded by 
SAB 101.”  E&Y should not have concluded that Bally’s reactivation revenue policy was in 
conformity with GAAP and thus E&Y failed to reasonably assess whether Bally’s financial 
statements were presented in conformity with GAAP, as required by GAAS. 
                                               5
  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       18.    E&Y also knew or should have known that part of the rationale contained in the 
2000 memo supporting Bally’s reactivation revenue policy -- that reactivation revenue was a 
continuation of the original contract -- was contrary to a representation that Bally had previously 
made to the Commission staff, in connection with its calculation of the average membership life 
estimate, that reactivation memberships were “in substance and in form, new contractual 
arrangements.”  E&Y failed to address or resolve Bally’s conflicting revenue recognition 
treatments of reactivation memberships. 

       19.    Initiation fee revenue was the largest component of Bally’s revenue.  In 1997, 
Bally had committed to the Commission staff that the company would periodically update its 
member life estimates.  Contrary to that commitment, Bally failed to update its member life  
estimates throughout the period E&Y remained its auditor.   

       20.    E&Y knew of Bally’s failure to keep that commitment.  In fact, E&Y formally 
requested Bally to update its member life computations in 1998, 2001, and 2002, but Bally never 
did so.  In response to E&Y’s 2001 request, Bally asserted that the 1997 calculations were still 
“an appropriate approximation of the current historical average membership length” because the 
original calculation constituted a “35-year historical average.”  In fact, the 1997 calculation did 
not constitute a 35-year historical average, but reflected an average from a much smaller pool of 
data.  E&Y knew or should have known that Bally’s representations regarding the 1997 
calculation were false.   

       21.    E&Y failed to perform adequate audit procedures with regard to the renewal 
period estimate and the resulting amortization period.  Rather, E&Y simply carried forward the 
1997 estimates pertaining to the average renewal period.  Given the critical nature of this 
accounting estimate, E&Y’s failure to obtain from the Company an update or to arrive at its own 
independent estimate constitutes a departure from GAAS. 

       22.    E&Y knew or should have known that Bally’s 2001 and 2002 financial statements 
were not presented in conformity with GAAP, and it failed to qualify its opinion or issue an 
adverse opinion as required by GAAS. 

                         E&Y Seeks To Reduce Its Risk: 2002-2003  
                                                 
       23.    In 2001 and 2002, a series of widely-known financial scandals led E&Y to assess 
its audit risks and the firm took steps to identify and resign from or focus on certain of its riskiest 
clients.  Internally, E&Y was communicating the dangers of retaining high risk clients, but even 
though E&Y identified Bally as one of its riskiest clients during the 2002 client continuance 
process, E&Y did not resign from Bally.  Instead, E&Y tried to reduce the risk that Bally’s 
accounting practices posed to E&Y by, among other things, insisting for the first time that Bally 
record the numerous accounting errors that had “historically been [placed by E&Y] on the 
summary of audit differences.” 

       24.    In addition, as a result of the implementation of the “Focus Accounts” program,  
Bally, its accounting, and its retention as an E&Y client came under scrutiny from E&Y regional 
and national management.  E&Y’s National Office actively participated in events relating to 
                                               6
  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

Bally’s critical accounting issues.  From  July 2002 through March 2003, E&Y had numerous 
internal communications and meetings regarding the risks posed by Bally generally, as well as 
particular risky accounting issues, including, among other things, Bally’s revenue recognition 
estimates.  Bally was the subject of a series of meetings with E&Y management, and Bally was 
placed on a list of National Focus Accounts for Americas Executive Board attention. 

     E&Y Knew or Should Have Known Bally Made False and Misleading Disclosures
  
                    Regarding a $55 Million Charge in Fiscal Year 2002
  
 
       25.    As of 2002, Bally’s allowance for doubtful accounts (“ADA”) had long been on 
E&Y’s list of concerns regarding aggressive accounting.  Bally’s estimate of the ADA was 
another area in which management’s estimates appeared aggressive.  Year in and year out, from  
1997 through 2002, Bally consistently used a 41% reserve rate, despite changes in the economy 
and in market conditions.  The resulting ADA was always at the low end of the range that E&Y 
had deemed to be reasonable.   

       26.    During the third quarter of 2002, E&Y determined that Bally’s collections had 
deteriorated substantially, and E&Y advised Bally that it needed to increase its ADA in order to 
cover the shortfall resulting from the deteriorating collections.  Bally insisted that no change be 
made to the ADA until the fourth quarter to allow it time to obtain waivers of debt covenants 
provisions from Bally’s lenders.   

       27.    During the fourth quarter of 2002, Bally agreed to increase its ADA by 
$55 million and ultimately presented it as a “special charge” in Bally’s year-end financial 
statements.  In its 2002 Form 10-K, Bally made false and misleading disclosures regarding the 
reasons for the charge, and E&Y knew or should have known that the disclosures were improper.  
The only reason for the charge cited in the Form 10-K was that Bally’s estimation was based on 
an accelerated monetization scenario which would result in collecting less than book value.  No 
mention was made of the deterioration of the collectability of Bally’s accounts receivable 
portfolio, which had been identified by E&Y as requiring Bally to take a charge. 

       28.    The $55 million special charge virtually eliminated Bally's 2002 earnings. E&Y 
knew or should have known that Bally’s disclosures failed to disclose accurately the reasons for 
the “special charge,” yet E&Y did not object.  E&Y also failed to tell Bally’s Audit Committee 
about Bally’s false and misleading disclosures.  

    Bally’s Accounting Errors and E&Y’s Audit Failures Relating to Fiscal Year 2003  
                                                
       29.    In March 2003, after the 2002 audit had concluded but before the company had 
filed its 2002 Form 10-K, E&Y contemplated resigning from the Bally engagement “due to risk  
issues.”  E&Y decided against resigning in favor of staying on and reducing its risk.   

       30.    Following the decision to remain as Bally’s auditor, a new E&Y audit 
engagement partner rotated on to the Bally engagement in April 2003.  The new engagement 
partner, who was selected because he was experienced and capable of delivering tough  
messages, was instructed to “fix this situation to reduce the firm’s risk.” 
                                               7
  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

                             Recognition of Reactivation Revenue  
                                                 
       31.    In June 2003, Bally was in the process of refinancing its bank debt through a 
private debt offering, to be followed by a public exchange offering.  In connection therewith, 
Bally needed E&Y to provide a comfort letter to the underwriters and a consent regarding 
Bally’s use of E&Y’s unqualified audit opinion relating to the 2002 audit.  E&Y told Bally that 
unless it stopped accruing reactivation revenue, E&Y would not provide those documents, which 
left Bally with no real alternative but to agree to stop accruing reactivation revenue.  Even 
though a few months earlier E&Y had issued an unqualified audit opinion regarding Bally's 2002 
financial statements that included its reactivation revenue accrual, in a June 16, 2003 meeting, 
E&Y demanded that Bally change its reactivation accounting.  That same day, after the audit 
team consulted with E&Y’s National Office, E&Y agreed to provide Bally with a preferability 
letter stating that the proposed change in reactivation accounting to a cash basis was a more 
preferable method of accounting for reactivation revenues. 

       32.    E&Y knew or should have known that Bally’s change in accounting for 
reactivation revenues was not, in fact, a change in accounting, but rather was a correction of an 
error that required a restatement because Bally’s original accrual methodology was not in 
conformity with GAAP.  A change in accounting can only be used to move from a GAAP-
compliant accounting methodology to a more preferable GAAP-compliant accounting 
methodology; errors in previously issued financial statements cannot be corrected through an 
accounting change.  Bally’s 2003 financial statements, therefore, improperly included a 
cumulative effect charge of $20.3 million associated with its change in accounting principle 
when its prior years' financial statements should have been restated.  Accordingly, Bally’s 2003 
financial statements were not presented in conformity with GAAP, yet E&Y issued an 
unqualified audit opinion on Bally’s 2003 financial statements.   

                             Recognition of Initiation Fee Revenue  

       33.    For the year-end 2003 audit, E&Y turned its attention to Bally's other accounting 
estimates, including the member life estimates used in determining the amortization period of 
initiation fees that E&Y knew or should have known were not in conformity with GAAP.  E&Y 
had repeatedly identified as a "critical accounting policy" Bally's initiation fee revenue 
recognition methodology.  Given the concerns about fraud perpetrated by means of accounting 
estimates, for the 2003 audit, E&Y planned to focus its attention on Bally’s membership revenue 
recognition methodology.   

       34.    E&Y’s audit planning reflected its awareness that Bally had failed to update its 
member life estimate since 1997 and that the company had ignored both its commitment to the 
Commission staff to do so and E&Y’s repeated recommendations to do so.  Consistent with its 
audit planning concerns about Bally’s aggressive estimates and the risk of financial fraud, E&Y 
requested that Bally provide support for the member life estimate for the 2003 fiscal year.  Despite 
repeated efforts to obtain the information, E&Y never received the requested support. 
 
       35.    Rather than continuing to press Bally for support for its complex accounting 
estimates, at a meeting on January 25, 2004, E&Y encouraged Bally to change its complex 
                                               8
  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

accounting methods, including initiation fee revenues.  E&Y prepared an agenda for the January 
2004 meeting with Bally; four of the five agenda items related to identified audit adjustments 
totaling approximately $260 million.  
 
       36.    At the January 2004 meeting, E&Y notified Bally that it would have to take a 
charge relating to new accounting guidance that Bally had failed to implement during the third 
quarter of 2003.  E&Y also identified three adjustments that Bally would have to book.   E&Y  
made clear that the new accounting guidance would require Bally to apply a modified cash basis 
of accounting to some of its contracts.  As Bally and E&Y discussed the proposed change, 
Bally’s CFO proposed adopting a modified cash basis of accounting for all of the company’s 
membership contracts.  E&Y knew or should have known that the change to a modified cash 
basis for the rest of Bally’s revenue recognition accounting would allow Bally to avoid or at least 
reduce the significance of some of the charges E&Y had identified.  The proposed changes 
would also subsume some of the prior audit failures relating to initiation fee revenues. Bally 
changed its accounting and E&Y issued a preferability letter that it knew or should have known 
enabled Bally to improperly avoid a restatement.  
 
       37.    Bally’s change from accrual accounting to a modified cash basis of accounting was 
not, in fact, a change in accounting, but rather involved a correction of an error that required a  
restatement because Bally’s implementation of the deferral method for recognition of initiation fee 
revenue was not in conformity with GAAP.  Accordingly, Bally’s 2003 financial statements were 
not presented in conformity with GAAP, but E&Y nonetheless issued an unqualified audit 
opinion on Bally’s 2003 financial statements.  
 
          E&Y’s Audit Was Deficient and Not Performed in Accordance with GAAS  
 
       38.    E&Y's 2003 audit was deficient and not performed in accordance with GAAS.  
E&Y failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to support an opinion that Bally's  
estimates, including the average member life estimates, were reasonable.  E&Y told Bally's audit 
committee that GAAS prescribed certain "mandatory procedures," including: "reviewing 
accounting estimates for biases that could result in material misstatement due to fraud, including 
retrospective review of significant prior year estimates. . . ."   
 
       39.    E&Y also did not follow up on evidence that Bally's average member life 
estimates were biased and unsubstantiated. 
 
       40.    The change in accounting to a modified cash basis resulted in Bally recording a 
cumulative effect adjustment (“CEA”) of more than $441 million, which was much more than 
the effect of the identified audit adjustments referred to above, but allowed Bally to provide a 
positive explanation for the effect.  Given that a significant amount of the CEA related to how 
Bally had amortized the initiation fees over a period of less than two years, E&Y should have 
questioned how two supposedly GAAP-compliant methodologies resulted in such a material 
disparity in earnings.  Nonetheless, E&Y failed to do so.  If it had followed up, E&Y would have 
determined that Bally’s prior calculation of the member life estimates was not reasonable and the 

                                               9
  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

Company’s straight-line amortization of the financed membership initiation fees over a 22-
month period was not in conformity with GAAP.  

       41.     Just as E&Y’s issuance of a preferability letter with regard to the change in 
accounting for reactivation dues was improper, so too was its issuance of a preferability letter 
with regard to the change to a modified cash basis for initiation fees.  By the time E&Y began 
the 2003 audit, E&Y was aware of the issues associated with the average member life estimate 
that required vigorous audit procedures, yet E&Y failed to respond adequately.   

       42.     E&Y knew or should have known that Bally’s 2003 financial statements were not 
presented in conformity with GAAP, and it failed to qualify its opinion or issue an adverse 
opinion as required by GAAS. 

                                         Legal Analysis  
                                                 
       43.     Section 17(a)(2) of the Securities Act prohibits obtaining money or property by 
means of untrue statements of material fact or misleading omissions of material fact in the offer 
or sale of securities.  Section 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act prohibits engaging in transactions, 
practices or courses of business which operate or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon the 
purchaser in the offer or sale of securities.  Information is material where there is a substantial 
likelihood that a reasonable investor would consider the information important in making an 
investment decision.  Basic, Inc. v. Levinson, 485 U.S. 224, 231-32 (1988).  Establishing 
violations of Section 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) does not require a showing of scienter.  Aaron v. SEC, 
446 U.S. 680, 697 (1980). 
 
       44.     Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 
thereunder require all issuers with securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act to 
file annual, current and quarterly reports on Form 10-K, Form 8-K and Form 10-Q, respectively.  
Exchange Act Rule 12b-20 further requires that, in addition to the information expressly required 
to be included in such reports, the issuer must include such additional material information as  
may be necessary to make the required statements, in light of the circumstances under which 
they were made, not misleading. The obligation to file these periodic reports includes the 
obligation that they be complete and accurate in all material respects.  See, e.g., SEC v. IMC 
Int’l, Inc., 384 F. Supp. 889, 893 (N.D. Tex.), aff’d mem., 505 F.2d 733 (5th
                                                                             Cir. 1974), cert. 
denied sub nom.  No showing of scienter is necessary to establish a violation of Section 13(a) of 
the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-11, 13a-13 and 12b-20.  See SEC v. McNulty, 137 F.3d 
732, 740-741 (2d Cir. 1998). 
 
       45.     Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to “make and keep 
books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the issuer.”   
 
       47.     Bally violated Section 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act and Sections 13(a) 
and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder by, 
among other things, prematurely recognizing income and improperly deferring costs which 
resulted in its books and records being false, failing to maintain accurate books and records and 
                                               10
  
---------------------Page 11---------------------

including material, false and misleading financial statements and information in annual, quarterly 
and current reports filed with the Commission in connection with fiscal years 2001 through 
2003. 
        
       48.    E&Y’s failure to comply with GAAS was a cause of and aided and abetted 
Bally’s violations.  For each of the years 2001-2003, E&Y issued audit reports containing 
unqualified opinions stating that E&Y had conducted an audit of the company’s annual financial 
statements in accordance with GAAS, that Bally’s financial reporting was in conformity with 
GAAP, and that Bally’s reported results fairly represented the financial condition of the 
company.  E&Y consented to the inclusion of these audit reports in Bally’s Forms 10-K for 
2001-2003.  However, E&Y’s audit reports were misleading because E&Y failed to conduct its 
audits in accordance with GAAS.  E&Y also knew or should have known that Bally was engaged 
in non-GAAP and other accounting actions that were not disclosed to investors and prevented 
Bally’s reported financial results from fairly representing its financial condition.   
 
       49.    In auditing Bally’s accounting practices relating to reactivation revenue and  
initiation fee revenue, E&Y failed under GAAS to exercise due professional care and skepticism, 
failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter and substituted managements’ 
representations for competent evidence supporting the accounting.  In fact, E&Y never insisted 
that Bally provide support for certain of these estimates, nor did E&Y itself perform sufficient 
audit procedures to test and determine whether these accounting actions resulted in appropriate 
revenue. Had it done so, it would have reasonably determined that these accounting practices 
were not in conformity with GAAP.    
 
       50.    Despite these accounting and audit failures, and in further violation of GAAS, 
E&Y did not express a qualified or adverse audit opinion, or refuse by disclaimer to express any 
opinion at all, but instead issued audit reports that contained unqualified opinions on Bally’s 
2001-2003 financial statements.  E&Y also knew or should have known that Bally was making 
false and misleading disclosures such as in connection with its $55 million special charge.  Nor 
did E&Y propose that Bally correct its improper accounting in the quarterly financial statements 
that E&Y reviewed during 2001-2003.  E&Y also improperly issued preferability letters that 
allowed Bally to switch its reactivation accounting and initiation fee revenue accounting instead 
of restating for errors relating to that accounting.  Accordingly, E&Y’s failure to comply with 
GAAS was a cause of and aided and abetted Bally’s violations of Section 17(a)(2) and (3) of the 
Securities Act and Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 
13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder. 
 
       51.    E&Y also willfully violated Section 10A(b) of the Exchange Act in connection 
with Bally’s failure to disclose that the $55 million special charge recorded in its FY 2002 
financial statements was due to a deterioration in the collectability of the Company’s receivables.  
E&Y failed to report this illegal act to the Audit Committee in accordance with Section 10A(b).  
                                                 

                                               11
  
---------------------Page 12---------------------

                                             Findings  
 
       As a result of the conduct described above, E&Y willfully  4
                                                                   violated Section 10A(b) of the 
Exchange Act and was a cause of and willfully aided and abetted Bally’s violations of Section 
17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act and Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and  
Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder.   
     
                                          Undertakings  
                                                  
       Respondent has agreed to the following undertakings: 
 
                    A. Undertaking Concerning a Payment in the Nature of a Penalty  
 
       E&Y shall, within 10 days of the entry of an Order, make a payment in the nature of a 
penalty in the amount of $8.5 million  to the United States Treasury. If timely payment is not 
made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717.  Such payment shall be: (A) 
made by United States postal money order, certified check, bank cashier's check or bank money 
order; (B) made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission; (C) hand-delivered or 
mailed to the Office of Financial Management, Securities and Exchange Commission, Operations 
Center, 6432 General Green Way, Stop 0-3, Alexandria, VA 22312; and (D) submitted under cover 
letter that identifies E&Y as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these 
proceedings.  A copy of the cover letter and money order or check shall be sent to Kenneth R. 
Lench, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., N.E., 
Washington, D.C. 20549. 
 
       B.      Undertaking Concer  ning Ongoing Cooperation  
 
       E&Y agrees that E&Y (including its partners, principals, officers, agents and employees) 
shall cooperate fully with the Commission with respect to any matter relating to the 
Commission's investigation of Bally, including but not limited to any litigation or other  
proceeding related to or resulting from that investigation.  Such cooperation shall include, but is 
not limited to:  
 
       (a) production of information-- at the Comm  ission's request, upon reasonable notice, and 
       without subpoena, E&Y (including its partners, principals, officers, agents and 
       employees) shall truthfully and completely disclose all information requested by SEC 
       staff in connection with the Commission's investigation, litigation or other proceedings, 
       except with respect to information related to clients other than Bally, which information 
       shall be produced in response to subpoena; 
 
       (b) production of documents -- at the Commission's request, upon reasonable notice, and 
       without subpoena, E&Y (including its partners, principals, officers, agents and 
                                                 
4
 A willful violation of the securities laws means merely “‘                   that the person charged with the duty knows what he is  
doing.’”  Wonsover v. SEC    , 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000) (quoting Hughes v. SEC   , 174 F.2d 969, 977 (D.C.  
Cir. 1949)). 
                                                12
  
---------------------Page 13---------------------

       employees) shall provide any document, record, or other tangible evidence requested by 
       SEC staff in connection with the Commission's investigation, litigation or other 
       proceedings, except with respect to documents related to clients other than Bally, which 
       documents shall be provided in response to subpoena; 
 
       (c) production of cooperative personnel -- at the Commission's request, upon reasonable 
       notice, and without subpoena, E&Y (including its partners, principals, officers, agents 
       and employees) shall use its best efforts to secure the attendance and truthful statements 
       or testimony of any E&Y partner, principal, officer, agent, or employee, excluding any 
       such person who is a party to litigation with the Commission, at any meeting, interview, 
       testimony, deposition, trial, or other legal proceeding.   
 
The foregoing obligations are subject to E&Y's reservation of rights:   
 
       (i) to claim that documents or information reque  sted is subject to attorney client privilege 
or attorney work-product protection; and 
 
       (ii) to seek entry of a confidentiality order as to (aa) sensitive business documents or 
information, (bb) sensitive personnel documents or information, or (cc) confidential information 
pertaining to clients other than Bally.   
 
       C.      Undertakings Concerning Auditing Matters  
 
               1.      National Office Consultations.  The goal of this undertaking is for E&Y to 
avoid circumstances under which a member of the National Office Professional Practice group, 
or any person in a comparable position, is consulted on a matter for which he or she may lack 
sufficient objectivity based on prior involvement with the same client.  E&Y shall adopt, 
implement and enforce written policies and procedures to provide reasonable assurances that no 
member of the Professional Practice group, or any person in a comparable position, engages in a 
consultation on an accounting, auditing, reporting or other issue relating to an audit or review of 
a public company client, if that member or person currently serves, or within the prior seven 
years has served, as a member of the engagement team or an independent or engagement quality 
review partner for such client; notwithstanding the foregoing, any person excluded based on 
prior involvement may provide background factual information relating to the client, or may 
inform others providing the consultation of the applicable technical guidance relating to issues 
that are not the same as or similar to issues with which the person was previously involved at the 
client. 
 
               2.      High Risk Clients.  The goal of this undertaking is to require E&Y to 
adopt, implement and enforce written policies and procedures to provide reasonable assurances 
that E&Y National Office Professional Practice partners, or persons in comparable positions, 
engaged in risk management roles do not lack sufficient objectivity because of their current or 
prior duties or responsibilities with respect to clients identified as presenting high risk to E&Y, 
including without limitation all Focus Account clients.  Such policies and procedures shall 
require, at a minimum, that any partner who currently serves as, or has served as within the prior 

                                               13
  
---------------------Page 14---------------------

seven years, a member of the engagement team or an independent or engagement quality review 
partner for such client, shall refrain from the exercise of the risk management duties and 
responsibilities of a National Office Professional Practice partner, or of a comparable position, 
with respect to such client identified as presenting high risk to E&Y; notwithstanding the 
foregoing, any person excluded based on prior involvement may provide background factual 
information relating to the client, or may inform others of the applicable technical guidance 
relating to issues that are not the same as or similar to issues with which the person was 
previously involved at the client. 
 
  3.                  Preferability Letters.  The purpose of this undertaking is to require E&Y 
to engage in an internal review of its existing policies and procedures concerning the issuance of 
preferability letter opinions, make such revisions as may be necessary, and then engage in steps 
to implement and enforce such policies and procedures so as to provide reasonable assurances 
that, prior to the issuance of any preferability letter, E&Y applies sufficient professional scrutiny 
to, and documents the application of such scrutiny to, requests by public company clients to 
change to an alternative method of accounting.  E&Y shall make   such revisions as may be 
necessary in order to adopt, implement and enforce written policies and procedures, concerning 
the review and approval of preferability letters issued by E&Y to public company clients, in 
order to provide reasonable assurances that E&Y complies with all applicable professional 
standards, regulatory and legal requirements, and E&Y policies.  E&Y’s obligation hereunder 
shall include, without limitation, a requirement to document in the audit workpapers a complete 
analysis as to: (a) whether the prior method of accounting is in conformity with GAAP; (b) 
whether the new proposed method is in conformity with GAAP; (c) whether the client proposed 
the change in accounting principle; (d) whether or not the client has provided sufficient 
justification for the change in accounting principle; and (e) whether or not the change in 
accounting principle is presented in accordance with GAAP.  In addition, E&Y shall make such 
revisions as may be necessary in order to adopt, implement and enforce written policies and 
procedures to provide reasonable assurances that that documentation of the review and approval 
of preferability letters issuable to public company clients, including the review of the 
aforementioned workpapers, is completed and included in the workpapers prior to the issuance of 
any such letters. 
 
  4.                  Documentation of Consultations.  The purpose of this undertaking is to 
require E&Y to engage in an internal review of its existing policies and procedures concerning 
documentation of National Office Professional Practice group, or any person in a comparable 
position, consultations, make such revisions as may be necessary, and then engage in steps to 
implement and enforce such policies and procedures.  E&Y shall make such revisions as may be 
necessary in order to adopt, implement and enforce written policies and procedures to provide 
reasonable assurances that workpapers prepared in connection with audits and reviews of the 
financial statements of public companies include documentation of consultations with E&Y’s 
National Office Professional Practice group, persons in comparable positions, firm specialists or 
others within or without the firm. The documentation of such consultations shall include a 
description of the issue considered, any action taken with respect to the issue, and the basis for 
conclusion with respect to the issue. Such documentation shall be retained for seven years and 
subject to inspection by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. The policies and 

                                               14
  
---------------------Page 15---------------------

procedures also should address documentation of inquiries of employees of public audit clients 
pertaining to such consultations. 
 
               5.     Disagreements and Reportable Events.  The goal of this undertaking is to 
require E&Y to engage in an internal review of its existing policies and procedures concerning 
compliance with the provisions of Item 304 of Regulation S-K (“Item 304”). E&Y shall adopt, 
implement and enforce written policies and procedures providing reasonable assurance that E&Y 
complies with Item 304, including ensuring that  training is provided to E&Y’s National Office 
Professional Practice group, persons in comparable positions and its engagement teams.   
 
  6.                  Detection and Reporting of Illegal Client Activity (Section 10A 
Compliance).  The goal of this undertaking is to require E&Y to engage in an internal review of 
its existing policies and procedures concerning compliance with Section 10A of the Exchange 
Act, make such revisions as may be necessary, and then engage in steps to implement and 
enforce such policies and procedures so as to provide reasonable assurances that E&Y will 
comply with its obligations under Section 10A.  E&Y shall make such revisions as may be 
necessary in order to adopt, implement and enforce written policies and procedures providing 
reasonable assurance that E&Y complies with Section 10A of the Securities of Exchange Act of 
1934, as amended, including without limitation, for each audit subject to Section 10A, 
procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance of detecting illegal acts that would have a 
direct and material effect on the determination of financial statement amounts, and to comply 
with all requirements under the standards of the Commission and the Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board and Section 10A to evaluate and report suspected illegal acts. 
 
              7.     Certification of Compliance.  The chairman of E&Y shall certify in 
writing compliance with each of the above undertakings (the “Certificate of Compliance”).  The 
certification shall identify each of the above undertakings with which E&Y believes it has 
complied and shall provide written evidence of compliance in the form of a narrative which is 
supported by exhibits sufficient to demonstrate compliance. The Commission staff may make 
reasonable requests for further evidence of compliance, and E&Y agrees to provide such 
evidence. The certification and supporting material shall be submitted to Assistant Director  
Kenneth R. Lench of the Division of Enforcement.  This certification shall be submitted no later 
than six months from the date of this order. 
 
              8. Independent Consultant.             No later than 3 months after successfully 
certifying to the Commission that all of the above undertakings have been completed, E&Y shall 
select and retain an Independent Consultant, qualified to examine and assess compliance with the  
above Undertakings Concerning Auditing Matters.  In advance of retention by E&Y, the selected 
Independent Consultant shall be confirmed to be acceptable to the Commission staff.  E&Y may 
not retain as Independent Consultant any individual or entity that has provided legal, auditing or 
other services to, or has had any affiliation with, E&Y during the prior two years.  Moreover, 
E&Y shall require the Independent Consultant to enter into an agreement that provides that, for 
the period of engagement and for a period of two years from completion of the engagement, the 
Independent Consultant shall not enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing 
or other professional relationship with E&Y, or any of its present or former affiliates, partners, 

                                               15
  
---------------------Page 16---------------------

directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such. The agreement will also  
provide that the Independent Consultant will require that any firm with which he/she is affiliated 
or of which he/she is a member, and any person engaged to assist the Independent Consultant in 
performance of his/her duties under this Order shall not, without prior written consent of the staff  
of the Division of Enforcement, enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing 
or other professional relationship with E&Y, or any of its present or former affiliates, partners, 
directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such for the period of the 
engagement and for a period of two years after the engagement. 
 
       E&Y shall provide a copy of the complete Certification of Compliance, including all 
attachments, previously submitted to the Commission staff, together with such other evidence as  
E&Y may deem appropriate to enable the Independent Consultant to reasonably evaluate E&Y’s 
compliance with the undertakings in this Order and their effectiveness in achieving their stated 
goals.  E&Y shall provide the Independent Consultant with reasonable access to such E&Y 
personnel, records and information, as the Independent Consultant may request in connection 
with the Independent Consultant’s review. 
 
       Following completion of the Independent Consultant’s review, the Independent 
Consultant shall prepare a detailed written report describing the actions taken by E&Y in 
response to the above undertakings and the effectiveness of such actions, and certifying that (i) 
E&Y has complied with the above undertakings, and (ii) the undertakings appear to be effective 
in achieving their stated goals.  If the consultant cannot so certify, the consultant shall (i) 
describe in the written report the reason that the consultant is unable to so certify, (ii) prepare and 
submit to E&Y written recommendations to E&Y designed to bring E&Y into effective 
compliance with the goals of the undertakings, and (iii) attach a copy of such written 
recommendations as an exhibit to the written report. A copy of the Independent Consultant’s 
report, certification and recommendations, if any, shall be submitted to Assistant Director 
Kenneth R. Lench of the Division of Enforcement within twelve months of the commencement 
of the Independent Consultant’s review, or such additional time  as necessary for the Independent 
Consultant to complete the review and make the required certification. 
 
       In determining whether to accept the Offer, the Commission has considered these 
undertakings.  Respondent agrees that if the Division of Enforcement believes that Respondent has  
not satisfied these undertakings, it may petition the Commission to reopen the matter to determine 
whether additional sanctions are appropriate.  
 

                                               16
  
---------------------Page 17---------------------

                                                         IV. 
                                                             
         In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent E&Y’s Offer. 
 
         Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Exchange Act, and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, it is hereby                            
ORDERED that:  
 
         A.       Respondent cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Section 10A of the Exchange Act and Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities 
Act, and from causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of                                       
the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder; 
 
         B.       Respondent is censured pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules 
of Practice; 
  
         C.       Respondent shall comply with the undertakings enumerated                 in Section III.C above. 
 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                                   M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                             
 

                                                          17
  
