---------------------Page 1---------------------

                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                           Before the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 SECURITIES ACT OF 1933                                       
 Release No. 9799 / June 1, 2015 
 
 SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
 Release No. 75088 / June 1, 2015 
 
 ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING 
 ENFORCEMENT  
 Release No. 3659 / June 1, 2015 
 
 ADMINISTRATIVE 
 PROCEEDING File No. 3-15815 
 
                                                    ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND 
In the Matter of                                    IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A 
                                                    CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER PURSUANT               
       DICKSON LEE, CPA                             TO SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT 
                                                    OF 1933, SECTIONS 4C AND 21C OF THE 
Respondent.                                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, 
                                                    AND RULE 102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S 
                                                    RULES OF PRACTICE 
 
 
                                                  
                                                  
                                                I. 
        The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate 
 to enter thi s Order Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-
 Desist Order Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), 
 Sections 4C 1
              and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 
 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice2
                                                      against Dickson Lee (“Lee” or 

                                                            
1
       Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
               The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the 
               privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . 
               (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character 
               or integrity, or to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have 
               willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the securities 
               laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
2
       Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
               The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the  privilege of appearing or 
               practicing before it . . . to any person who is found…to have willfully violated, or willfully aided 
                                                1 
                                                  
 

 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 “Respondent”). 
                                                II. 

       Following the institution of these proceedings on March 27, 2014, Respondent has 
submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. 
Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of 
the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s 
jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and consents to the entry of this 
Order Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant 
to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933, Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934  and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice (“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                                III. 
 
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds   3
                                                                                   : 
 
                                           SUMMARY 
 
        This action arises out of a fraudulent scheme by L&L Energy and Dickson Lee to create 
 the appearan  ce that L&L was run by a professional management team and conceal Lee’s control 
 of the company.  L&L Energy is a Tukwila, Washington-headquar  tered coal company with all of 
 its operations in China and Taiwan.  At all relevant times, it was led by Dickson Lee, its former 
 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.  From approximately August 2008 to June 
 2009, L&L and Lee repeatedly and fraudulently misrepresented to the public that it had certain 
 persons serving in critical executive management roles at the company when, in reality, those 
 persons served in no such roles. 
 
       First, in its Form 10-K for the fiscal year 2008, L&L falsely represented that Lee’s 
 brother served as the company’s CEO when, in reality, Lee’s brother held the title of CEO in 
 name only while Lee ran the day to day operations of the company.  In that same filing, L&L 
 represented that a former company employee (“the purported Acting CFO”) had served as the 
 company’s Acting Chief Financial Officer when, in realit y, the purported Acting CFO had 
 emailed Lee prior to the 2008 Form 10-K and rejected the Acting CFO position.  In the 
 company’s next three quarterly report filings for 2009, L&L and Lee continued to misrepresent 
 that the purported Acting CFO was in fact the company’s Acting CFO.  For example, L&L’s 
 public filings contained certifications required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
 (“Sarbanes-Oxley) that ostensibly bore the purported Acting CFO’s electronic signature when, 
 in reality, the purported Acting CFO had not signed any L&L public filings during this period; 
 did not provide authorization for her signature to be placed on any L&L public filings; and did 
 not perform any of the reviews necessary to have a basis for any of the attestations contained on 
                                                                                                                                                                                                
               and abetted the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules and 
               regulations thereunder. 
 
3
        The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other 
person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
                                                 2 
                                                   
 

 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 the Sarbanes-Oxley certification s. 
        
        
        In approximately May 2009, the purported Acting CFO learned that L&L had been falsely 
 representing her as the company’s Acting CFO and confronted Lee and the chair of L&L’s Audit 
 Committee.  In response, Lee separately admitted to the purported Acting CFO and the Audit 
 Committee Chair that the purported Acting CFO had not performed the duties of L&L’s Acting 
 CFO, and then directed the Audit Committee Chair to conceal this fact from both the company’s 
 Board and the public.  Lee maintained his fraudulent scheme by continuing to falsely represent to 
 L&L’s Board of Directors that the purported Acting CFO had served as the Acting CFO.  Lastly, 
 during the fall of 2009, in connection with an application for L&L to gain listing on NASDAQ, 
 Lee misled NASDAQ by informing it that the company had made all of the required Sarbanes-
 Oxley certifications – including during the period of the purported Acting CFO’s ostensible 
 service.  As a result, L&L became listed on the NASDAQ. 
         
                                      RESPONDENT 
 
        Dickson Lee, age 66, is the company’s founder and has been L&L’s Chairman of the 
 Board and Chief Executive Officer since August 2008.  Lee previously served as CEO from 1995 
 through July 2007 and Chairman at various periods.  He previously held CPA licenses in 
 Washington and New York (both licenses have lapsed, with the Washington license lapsing in 
 June 2012) and previously audited public companies.  Lee obtained his Series 7 license in 1998 
 and his Series 24 and 27 licenses in 2000.  Lee was an associated person with a number of broker 
 dealers until about 2005.  
 
                             OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES 
 
        L&L is a Tukwila, Washington headquartered coal company with all of its operations in 
 China and Taiwan.  The company became public through a reverse merger in August 2001. 
 L&L’s common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Exchange Act Section 
 12(b). 
 
                                          FACTS 
 
    A.  The Purported Acting CFO Rejects Acting CFO Position 
 
        1.     In August 2007, L&L publicly announced that Lee had resigned his position as 
 L&L’s Chairman of the Board and CEO.   Lee resigned those positions shortly after he was 
 disciplined by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (“NASD”) and received a 
 one-year suspension of his license for conducting private placement offerings of L&L securities 
 in which the private placement memoranda contained false statements.  Lee believed that, if he 
 was an L&L officer, his suspe nsion would impede L&L from becoming listed on a stock 
 exchange. 
 
        2.     At that time, Lee convinced L&L’s Board to install his brother as the CEO of 
 L&L (hereinafter “Lee’s brother”)  .  During the one-year period (August 2007 – August 2008) 
 in which Lee’s brother held the title of L&L’s CEO, however, Lee continued to run the 
                                              3 
                                               
 

 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 company as he had when he held the title of CEO. 
 
 
        3.     In January 2008, L&L’s stock became quoted on the Over-The-Counter 
 Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”).  In order to gain listing on a larger trading venue, such as 
 NASDAQ, Lee soug ht to hire a Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”). 
 
        4.     L&L hired a CFO in February 2008, but within two months that person resigned.  
 As L&L sought a replacement CFO, Lee proposed the name of a former employee and L&L 
 director (hereinafter, “the purported Acting CFO”) as a candidate for L&L’s Acting CFO 
 position during the search for a permanent replacement. 
 
        5.         In approximately June 2008, Lee discussed engaging a U.S.-based placement 
 agent (the “placement agent”) to assist L&L in raising money from investors.  This placement 
 agent encouraged L&L to hire a CFO.  In a June 18, 2008 email, Lee referred to the purported 
 Acting CFO as a member of the management team that had been requested by the placement 
 agent.  In another June 2008 email, Lee wrote that the purported Acting CFO could become 
 L&L’s Acting CFO in order to meet the placement agent’s “requirement.”  
         
        6.     On June 23, 2008, members of L&L’s board and Lee held a meeting.  At that 
 meetin  g, Lee communicated that the purported Acting CFO would be appointed as the 
 company’s Acting CFO because the placement agent “suggested that L&L needs to have [an] 
 Acting CFO (a Non-Officer position) as one of the conditions to move L&L’s funding forward.” 
 
        7.     On that same day, at Lee’s instruction, Lee’s assistant sent the purported 
 Acting CFO an email thanking her for becoming L&L’s Acting CFO.  The purported Acting 
 CFO, however, had never accepted the Acting CFO position. 
 
        8.     On July 14, 2008, the purported Acting CFO forwarded to Lee the June 23, 2008 
 email she received from his assistant regarding the Acting CFO position and informed Lee that 
 she was “unable to become L&L Acting CFO as I don’t have time to make any contribution to 
 L&L.  I need to take care of my own job and my kids as well . . . I wish you could find a more 
 suitable CFO soon.”   
 
    B.  L&L Falsely Represents Lee’s Brother and the Purported Acting CFO as the 
        Company’s CEO and Acting CFO 
 
        9.          On August 12, 2008, L&L filed its Form 10-K with the Commission for its 
 fiscal year ended April 30, 2008 (the “2008 Form 10-K”).  Lee reviewed the filing before it 
 was made publ ic. 
 
        10.    L&L, in its 2008 Form 10-K, falsely represented that Lee’s brother had performed 
 the functions of the company’s CEO when, in reality, Lee continued to perform those functions. 
 
        11.    Moreover, in that same filing, L&L reported for the first time that the purported 
 Acting CFO had been named as the company’s Acting CFO, disclosing that “she is a CPA with 
 experience of both U.S. and China accounti ng practices.  She was a senior auditing manager for 
                                              4 
                                               
 

 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 a New York CPA firm with PCAOB qualification, and conducted US GAAP audits for US 
 publi c liste d companies.”  These representations were false because the purported Acting CFO 
 had rejected the Acting CFO position. 
         
        12.    L&L’s 2008 Form 10-K contained certifications required under Sarbanes-Oxley 
 for the company’s principal executive officer and principal financial officer, namely, its CEO and 
 CFO. These certifications contained the electronic signatures of both Lee’s brother and the 
 purported Acting CFO by which each of them attested to, among other things, the fact that the 
 2008 Form 10-K contained no untrue statements of material fact. 
 
        13.       Neither Lee’s brother nor the purported Acting CFO, however, provided any 
 such  attestation  and  neither  Lee’s  brother  nor  the  purported  Acting  CFO  provided  any 
 authorization  to  have  their  electronic  signatures  placed on  their  respective  Sarbanes-Oxley 
 certifications. 
 
        14.    L&L, in its 2008 Form 10-K, also falsely represented that it had – with the 
 participation of its CEO (Lee’s brother) and CFO (the purported Acting CFO) – evaluated the 
 effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures, and based 
 on such evaluation, the company, its CEO (Lee’s brother), and CFO (the purported Acting 
 CFO) concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective. 
 
   C.  L&L and Lee Continue their Scheme to Falsely Represent the Purported Acting CFO 
       as the Acting CFO 
 
        15.    On August 25, 2008, after his one-year NASD suspension was over, Lee officially 
returned to the position of L&L’s CEO and Chairman of the Board. 
 
        16.    On September 15, 2008, L&L filed with the Commission its Form 10-Q for the 
period ended July 31, 2009 (the “First Quarter 2009 Form 10-Q”).  Lee signed the filing.  Like the 
2008 Form 10-K, the First Quarter 2009 Form 10-Q contained a Sarbanes-Oxley certification that 
was ostensibly electronically signed by the purported Acting CFO.  Moreover, the First Quarter 
2009 Form 10-Q also contained the representation that the CEO (Lee) and the purported Acting 
CFO had evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operat  ion of the company’s disclosure 
controls and procedures and those controls and procedures were effective. 
 
        17.    The purported Acting CFO, however, did not serve as the company’s Acting CFO 
 in any capacity; did not authorize her electronic signature to be placed on the Sarbanes-Oxley 
 certifications; did not perform any of the reviews or functions enumerated on the Sarbanes-Oxley 
 certifications; and did not evaluate the effectiveness of the company’s disclosure controls and 
 procedures. 
 
        18.    The First Quarter 2009 Form 10-Q also contained a Sarbanes-Oxley certification 
 for Lee.  In his Sarbanes-Oxley certification, Lee falsely certified that, to his knowledge, L&L’s 
 First Quarter 2009 Form 10-Q contained no untrue statements of material fact. 
 
        19.    In approximately December 2008, L&L retained a U.S.-based investment 
 research firm to write a research report concerning L&L.  In late December 2008, the research 
                                               5 
                                                
 

 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 firm emailed Lee a draft research report for his review.  The research report contained a 
 prominent section on L&L’s management team, listed the purported Acting CFO as the 
 company’s CFO and stated that the purported Acting CFO “coordinates all accounting for L&L.” 
 Lee caused a revised version of the research report to be sent to the research firm with some 
 “minor changes,” but did not correct the false statements regarding the purported Acting CFO. 
 This report was published in approximately April 2009 and included the false statements 
 regarding the role of the purported Acting CFO. 
 
        20.    On December 22, 2008, L&L filed with the Commission its Form 10-Q for the 
 period ended October 31, 2008, and on March 23, 2009, L&L filed with the Commission its 
 Form 10-Q for the period ended January 31, 2009.  Lee signed both of these filings.  These two 
 public filings again contained false, electronically signed, Sarbanes-Oxley certifications by the 
 purported Acting CFO.  Moreover, these two filings contained the false statements concerning 
 the purported Acting CFO’s evaluation of the effectiveness of the company’s disclosure controls 
 and procedures. 
 
        21.    These two public filings also contained Lee’s own Sarbanes-Oxley certification 
 in which he again falsely certified that, to his knowledge, the Form 10-Qs contained no untrue 
 statements of material fact. 
         
        22.    As noted above, L&L placed electronic signatures on the public filings to reflect 
 that the purported Acting CFO had signed the requisite Sarbanes-Oxley certifications.  The 
 Commission staff requested from L&L, but never received, the actual signature pages bearing the 
 purported Acting CFO’s signature for each of the requisite Sarbanes-Oxley certifications. 
 
        23.    On August 12, 2009, L&L filed its 2009 Form 10-K, which contained Lee’s 
 Sarbanes-Oxley certification that, based on his and the CFO’s most recent evaluation of the 
 company’s internal control over financial reporting, all fraud involving management had been 
 disclosed to the company’s auditors and to the company’s Audit Committee.  This certification 
 was false because Lee had not disclosed to the company’s external auditors or the company’s 
 entire Audit Committee that the purported Acting CFO was misrepresented in L&L’s previous 
 filings as its Acting CFO. 
 
    D.  Lee Admits to Purported Acting CFO that She Did Not Perform the Work of the 
        Acting CFO 
 
        24.    In approximately May 2009, the purported Acting CFO became aware that L&L 
had falsely represented her as the company’s Acting CFO in the company’s public filings and, on 
May 6, 2009, sent Lee an email that included her July 14, 2008 email in which she rejected the 
Acting CFO position.  In the email, the purported Acting CFO wrote that she “clearly indicated that 
[she] would not accept the offer of being the Acting CFO of L&L,” and asked Lee for an immediate 
explanation. 
 
        25.    On May 13, 2009, Lee emailed the purported Acting CFO and wrote, “[t]here is a 
 misunderstanding of the Acting CFO role . . .   Based on your input, your name is removed to 
 please you.”  The purported Acting CFO replied that – just because she and Lee had known each 
                                               6 
                                                
 

 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 other for ten years – it did not mean “that you could use my name, without authorisation, to the 
 file 10K to the U.S. SEC.”  In response, on May 19, 2009, Lee emailed the purported Acting CFO 
 and separately admitted, “[y]ou did not actually conduct the work as Acting [CFO].” 
 
 
    E.  Lee Admits to L&L’s Audit Committee Chair That Purported Acting CFO Did Not 
        Serve as Acting CFO 
 
        26.    On May 21, 2009, the purported Acting CFO emailed Shirley Kiang, who was 
 then the Chair of L&L’s Audit Committee and member of its Board of Directors.  In the email, 
 the purported Acting CFO told Kiang that she had a “serious and urgent” matter related to 
 L&L’s public information made without her knowledge and asked Kiang to investigate. 
 
        27.    Kiang subsequently contacted Lee and asked whether the purported Acting CFO 
 had actually served as the company’s Acting CFO.  Lee initially informed Kiang that the 
 purported Acting CFO had served as the company’s Acting CFO and was making false 
 allegations in an attempt to obtain money from the company. 
 
        28.    Kiang asked Lee for evidence to support his assertion that the purported Acting 
 CFO had served as the company’s Acting CFO.  In response, Lee provided Kiang with a letter that 
 appeared   to be addressed to the purported Acting CFO, dated May 28, 2008, and purported to be 
 signed by Lee’s brother as the company’s CEO.  The letter asked the purported Acting CFO to 
 confirm that she had agreed to accept the Acting CFO position and stated that if the company did 
 not receive a response to the letter within ten days, the company would treat her lack of response 
 as her acceptance of the position. 
 
        29.    This letter, however, was not created on May 28, 2008; was not signed by Lee’s 
brother; and was never sent to the purported Acting CFO.  Rather, this letter was created on May 26, 
2009 – almost one year after the purported Acting CFO had rejected the Acting CFO position – and 
was stored in Lee’s L&L computer network folder. 
         
        30.    On June 4, 2009 – after receivin  g no response from Kiang – the purported 
Acting CFO emailed Kiang again.  The purported Acting CFO again asked Kiang to investigate 
her allegations, specifically that she was misrepresented in L&L’s filings as the company’s 
Acting CFO, and included her July 14, 2008 email to Dickson Lee rejecting the Acting CFO 
position. 
         
        31.        After  receiving  the  June  4  email,  Kiang  again  asked  Dickson  Lee  for  an 
explanation. Lee then admitted to Kiang that the purported Acting CFO had not actually served as 
the company’s Acting CFO and that he had used the purported Acting CFO’s name on L&L’s 
public filings without the purported Acting CFO’s permission.   Lee directed Kiang to not disclose 
this information to anyone, including the company’s Board of Directors or the public, and told her 
that if this information became publicly known, L&L’s stock price would drop. 
         
        32.    After this, Lee continued to falsely represent to the company’s Board of Directors 
that the purported Acting CFO had served as the company’s Acting CFO.   
 
                                              7 
                                                
 

 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

        33.    During the nearly one-year period in which the purported Acting CFO was 
 falsely represented as the company’s Acting CFO, L&L raised approximately $750,000 from 
 investors usi ng stock purchase agreements in which L&L expressly attested to the accuracy of 
 its publi c filings and private placement documents that referred the investor to publicly 
 available addition al information about the company. 
 
    F.  L&L Makes Materially False and Misleading Statements on NASDAQ Application to 
       Gain NASDAQ Listing 
 
        34.    In approximately September 2009, L&L completed an application to become listed 
 on the NASDAQ.  As part of the application process, NASDAQ requested a variety of 
 information, including confirmation that the company had made all of the required Sarbanes-
 Oxley certifications. 
 
       35.    L&L, in a communication from Lee, confirmed that the company had made all of 
 the required Sarbanes-Oxley certifications.  L&L misled NASDAQ in this communication because 
 it did not inform NASDAQ that its required CFO Sarbanes-Oxley certifications for its 2008 Form 
 10-K or its three 2009 Form 10-Qs were false.  As a result, L&L gained listing on NASDAQ in 
 February 2010  
  
                                        VIOLATIONS 
 
        36.    By engaging in the conduct described above, Lee willfully violated Section 10(b) 
 of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder  , which prohibits fraudulent conduct in 
 connection with the purchase or sale of securities.  Also, by engaging in the conduct described 
 above, Lee willfully aided and abetted and caused violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange 
 Act and Rule 10b-5(b) thereunder  . 
 
        37.    By engaging in the conduct described above, Lee willfully violated Section 17(a) 
 of the Securities Act, which prohibits fraudulent conduct in the offer or sale of securities. 
 
        38.    By engaging in the conduct described above, Lee willfully aided and abetted and 
 caused violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder, 
 which require issuers of registered securities to file factually accurate annual and quarterly 
 reports. Also, Lee willfully aided and abetted and caused violations of Rule 12b-20 of the 
 Exchange Act, which requires the addition to such reports of further material information 
 necessary to make the required report statements not misleading. 
 
        39.    By engaging in the conduct described above, Lee willfully violated, and willfully 
 aided and abetted and caused violations of Rule 13a-14 of the Exchange Act, which requires, 
 among other things, that principal executive and financial officers certify that based on their 
 knowledge, the issu er’s financial statements are accurate, and that, based on the principal 
 executive and financial officer’s most recent evaluation of the company’s internal control over 
 financial reporting, they have disclosed all fraud, whether or not material, involving management 
 to the company’s auditors and Audit Committee. 
 
 
                                               8 
                                                
 

 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

        40.     By engaging in the conduct described above, Lee willfully aided and abetted and 
 caused violations of Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act, which requires each issuer’s management, 
 with the participation of the company’s principal executive officer and principal accounting 
 officer, or persons performing similar functions, to evaluate the effectiveness of the company’s 
 disclosure controls and procedures on a quarterly basis. 
 
        41.     By engaging in the conduct described above, Lee willfully aided and abetted and 
 caused violations of Section 302 of Regulation S-T of the Exchange Act, which requires that (i) 
 a signatory to an electronic filing actually sign the signature page before or at the time of the 
 electronic filing; (ii) the filer retain the original executed document for five years; and (iii) that 
 the filer provide the Commission staff with a copy of the document upon request. 
 
                                               IV.  
                                                 
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the 
 sanctions agreed to in Respondent Lee’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Sections 4C and 21C of 
 the Exchange Act, and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, it is hereby 
 ORDERED that: 
 
    A.      Respondent Lee cease and desist from committing or causing  any violations and any 
            future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, Section 10(b) of the Exchange 
            Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rul es 12b-20, 
            13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder  , Rules 13a-14 and 13a-15 of the Exchange Act, and 
            Section 302 of Regulation S-T of the Exchange Act. 
 
    B.      Respondent Lee be, and hereby is: 
 
            a.    barred from acting as an officer or director of any issuer that has a class of 
               securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act, or that is 
               required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. 
 
            b.   denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission pursuant           
               to Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
    By the Commission. 
 
 
 
 
                                                 Brent J. Fields 
                                                  Secretary 
 

                                                9 
                                                 
 

 
