---------------------Page 1---------------------

 

                        UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                   Before the 
                  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 9918 / September 18, 2015 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 75948 / September 18, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3700 / September 18, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16339 
 
                                      ORDER  MAKING FINDINGS AND 
In the Matter of                      IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS  AND A 
                                      CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER  PURSUANT 
 JOHN BRINER, ESQ.,                   TO SECTION  8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT 
 DIANE DALMY,  ESQ.,                  OF 1933 AND SECTION S 4C AND 21C OF 
 DE JOYA GRIFFITH, LLC ,              THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 
 ARTHUR DE JOYA, CPA,                 1934, AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
 JASON GRIFFITH, CPA,              COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE 
 CHRIS WHETMAN,  CPA,                    
 PHILIP ZHANG,  CPA,                                           
 M&K CPAS, PLLC,  
 MATT MANIS,  CPA, 
 JON RIDENOUR, CPA, and 
 BEN ORTEGO , CPA, 
 
Respondent s. 
 
 
 
 
                                          
                                        
 
      On January 15, 2015, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deeming 
it appropriate, instituted public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings pursuant to 
Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice 
against M&K CPAS, PLLC (“M&K”), Matt Manis, CPA (“Manis”), and Jon Ridenour 
(“Ridenour”) (together, “Respondents”).  
 

 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 

                                                II. 
                                                  
       Respondents have submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”), which the Commission 
has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings 
brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without 
admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and 
the subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of 
this Order, as set forth below. 
 
                                               III. 
                                                  
                                                                                1
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offer, the Commission finds    that:  
 
                                        RESPONDENTS 

       1.      M&K is a registered public accounting firm based in Houston, Texas.  M&K 
issued audit reports for eleven issuers described further below.   

       2.      Manis, 53, of Houston, Texas, is a CPA licensed in the state of Texas and a partner 
of M&K. 

       3.      Ridenour, 37, of Houston, Texas, is a CPA licensed in the state of Texas and a 
partner of M&K. 

                        RELEVANT ENTITIES AND INDIVIDUALS 

       4.      John Briner (“Briner”), 35, is an attorney and a Canadian citizen who resides in 
Vancouver, British Columbia.  Briner’s law firm was MetroWest Law Corporation (“MetroWest”).  
Briner also controlled Jervis Explorations Inc. (“Jervis”), a British Columbia corporation.  In 2010, 
to resolve a Commission action against him alleging a pump-and-dump and market manipulation 
scheme, Briner consented to the entry of a federal court judgment that enjoined him from violating 
the antifraud and securities registration provisions of the federal securities laws; barred him for five 
years from participating in penny stock offerings; and ordered him to disgorge ill-gotten gains of 
$52,488.32 plus prejudgment interest and pay a civil penalty of $25,000.  SEC v. Golden Apple Oil 
and Gas, Inc., et al., 09-Civ-7580 (S.D.N.Y.) (HB).  The Commission subsequently suspended 
Briner from appearing or practicing before it as an attorney, with a right to apply for reinstatement 
after five years.  John Briner, Exchange Act Release No. 63371, 2010 WL 4783445 (Nov. 24, 
2010). 

       5.      Diane Dalmy (“Dalmy”), 58, is an attorney who resides in Denver, Colorado and is 
admitted to practice law in Colorado.  Dalmy issued opinion letters for the issuers identified below. 

       6.      Jervis is a British Columbia corporation whose sole director is John Briner.  Jervis 
purportedly sold certain British Columbia mineral claims to each issuer described below. 

                                                 
       1
         The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                                2 
                                                  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 

       7.      Stone Boat Mining Corp. (“Stone Boat”) is a Nevada corporation organized in 
September 2011.  On January 27, 2012, Stone Boat filed a Form S-1 registration statement with the 
Commission seeking to register management’s common shares for resale in a $20,000 public 
offering.  On September 24, 2012 and on October 17, 2012, Stone Boat filed amendments to its 
Form S1 registration statement.  Stone Boat’s registration statement states that it has its principal 
offices in Chihuahua, Mexico. 
        
       8.      Goldstream Mining Inc. (“Goldstream”) is a Nevada corporation organized in 
November 2011.  On August 6, 2012, Goldstream filed a Form S-1 registration statement with the 
Commission seeking to register management’s common shares for resale in a $15,000 public 
offering.  On September 24, 2012 and on October 17, 2012, Goldstream filed amendments to its 
Form S1 registration statement.  Its registration statement states that it has its principal offices in 
Ocala, Florida.   
        
        9.     Kingman River Resources. (“Kingman”) is a Nevada corporation organized in 
June 2012.  On January 31, 2013, Kingman filed a Form S-1 registration statement with the 
Commission seeking to register management’s common shares for resale in a $14,000 public 
offering.  Its registration statement states that it has its principal offices in Dundas, Ontario, 
Canada.  
        
       10.    Bonanza Resources Corp. (“Bonanza”) is a Nevada corporation organized in June 
2012.  On January 31, 2013, Bonanza filed a Form S-1 registration statement with the Commission 
seeking to register management’s common shares for resale in a $18,000 public offering.  Its 
registration statement states that it has its principal offices in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. 
        
       11.    CBL Resources Inc. (“CBL”) is a Nevada corporation organized in June 2012.  On 
January 31, 2013, CBL filed a Form S-1 registration statement with the Commission seeking to 
register management’s common shares for resale in a $10,000 public offering.  Its registration 
statement states that it has its principal offices in Panama City, Panama. 
        
       12.    Lost Hills Mining Inc. (“Lost Hills”) is a Nevada corporation organized in June 
2012.  On January 31, 2013, Lost Hills filed a Form S-1 registration statement with the 
Commission seeking to register management’s common shares for resale in a $20,000 public 
offering.  Its registration statement states that it has its principal offices in Panama City, Panama. 
        
       13.    Yuma Resources Inc. (“Yuma”) is a Nevada corporation organized in June 2012.  
On January 31, 2013, Yuma filed a Form S-1 registration statement with the Commission seeking 
to register management’s common shares for resale in a $16,000 public offering.  Its registration 
statement states that it has its principal offices in St. Albert, Alberta, Canada. 
        
       14.    Seaview Resources Inc. (“Seaview”) is a Nevada corporation organized in June 
2012.  On January 31, 2013, Seaview filed a Form S-1 registration statement with the Commission 
seeking to register management’s common shares for resale in a $10,000 public offering.  Its 
registration statement states that it has its principal offices in Sterrett, Alabama. 
        
       15.    Chum Mining Group Inc. (“Chum”) is a Nevada corporation organized in June 

                                                3 
                                                 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 

2012.  On November 30, 2012, Chum filed a Form S-1 registration statement with the Commission 
seeking to register management’s common shares for resale in a $20,000 public offering.  Its 
registration statement states that it has its principal offices in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. 
        
       16.    Eclipse Resources Inc. (“Eclipse”) is a Nevada corporation organized in May 
2012.  On December 3, 2012, Eclipse filed a Form S-1 registration statement with the Commission 
seeking to register management’s common shares for resale in an $18,000 public offering.  Its 
registration statement states that it has its principal offices in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.   
        
       17.    PRWC Energy Inc. (“PRWC”) is a Nevada corporation organized in May 2012.  
On December 6, 2012, PRWC filed a Form S-1 registration statement with the Commission 
seeking to register management’s common shares for resale in a $20,000 public offering.  Its 
registration statement states that it has its principal offices in Salt Lake City, Utah. 
        
          RESPONDENTS CONDUCTED MATERIALLY DEFICIENT AUDITS 

       Background 

       18.    In or about November 2011, Briner contacted M&K to conduct audits of certain 
issuers’ financial statements that were to be included in Form S-1 registration statements.  Manis 
was the engagement partner for audits of Stone Boat and Goldstream and the engagement quality 
review partner for audits of Chum, Eclipse, Kingman, Bonanza, CBL, Lost Hills, Yuma, and 
Seaview.  Ridenour (together with Manis, the “Audit Partners”) was the engagement partner for 
audits of Kingman, Bonanaza, CBL, Lost Hills, Yuma, and Seaview and the engagement quality 
review partner for audits of Stone Boat, Goldstream, and PRWC (together with Eclipse and Chum, 
the “Issuers”).   

       19.    The Audit Partners knew that Briner did the accounting and created the financial 
statements to be used in the Form S-1 registration statements for each of the Issuers.  The Audit 
Partners also knew that Briner maintained all of the Issuers’ purported funds “in trust” in an 
account Briner controlled (the “Master Trust Account”). 

       20.    Briner and his assistant were the exclusive contacts between M&K and each 
Issuer’s officer.  The Audit Partners did not directly communicate with any of the Issuers’ officers.  
The Audit Partners knew that Briner provided all of the information concerning the Issuers and all 
of the supporting evidence for their audits.   

       21.    The Issuers two largest transactions consisted of the officer’s purchase of Issuer 
stock for $30,000 and the Issuer’s purchase of British Columbia mineral claims for between $7,500 
and $8,500 from Jervis. 

       22.    The Audit Partners conducted the Issuers’ audits, including auditing the above 
transactions, and consented to the inclusion of M&K’s audit report in each of the Issuers’ Form S-1 
registration statements filed with the Commission.  M&K was paid a total of $49,500 in fees for 
the Issuers’ audits.  Each audit report stated that “[w]e conducted our audit in accordance with the 
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States)” and that the 
financial statements present the Issuers’ financial position “in conformity with U.S. generally 

                                                4 
                                                 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 

accepted accounting principles.” 

       Respondents Failed to Detect Red Flags in Accepting 
       and Continuing with the Issuers as Clients 

       23.    Under PCAOB standard QC Section 20 (System of Quality Control for a CPA 
Firm’s Accounting and Auditing Practice) (“QC 20”), “[p]olicies and procedures should be 
established for deciding whether to accept or continue a client relationship” and “[s]uch policies 
and procedures should provide the firm with reasonable assurance that the likelihood of association 
                                                                       2
with a client whose management lacks integrity is minimized” (at .14).   

       24.    Under PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 12 (Identifying and Assessing Risks of 
Material Misstatement) (“AS 12”), auditors should “evaluate whether information obtained from 
the client acceptance and retention evaluation process or audit planning activities is relevant to 
identifying risks of material misstatement” (¶ 41). 

       25.    Additionally, under PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 7 (Engagement Quality 
Review) (“AS 7”), among other things, engagement quality review partners, should “evaluate the 
significant judgments made by the engagement team,” (¶ 9) including “consideration of the firm’s 
recent engagement experience with the company and risks identified in connection with the firm’s 
client acceptance and retention process” (¶ 10 a.). 

       26.    Finally, auditors must meet PCAOB standard AU Section 230 (Due Professional 
Care in the Performance of Work) (“AU 230”), which requires that auditors “exercise professional 
skepticism” (at .07), “consider the competency and sufficiency of the evidence” (at .08), and 
“neither assume[] that management is dishonest nor assume[] unquestioned honesty” (at .09). 

       27.    M&K’s client acceptance policies and procedures in effect at the time it accepted 
the Issuers as clients required very little.  M&K’s policy called for “background checks on all 
significant owners and chief executives.”  In practice, such check consisted of a simple Internet 
search.     

       28.    The Audit Partners failed to sufficiently question or otherwise investigate the 
Issuers’ management, which would have revealed Briner’s undisclosed role as a control person.  
Nor did they conduct a background check of Briner or Dalmy, which at minimum would have 
turned up, among other things, the Commission’s complaint alleging fraud and suspension order 
against Briner, and that Briner had been on the OTC Market’s Prohibited Attorney List since 
March 15, 2006, and that Dalmy had also been on the list since September 25, 2009. 

       29.    Additionally, M&K’s client acceptance policies and procedures failed to detect 
clues that should have raised concerns.  Upon referring the Issuers, Briner’s assistant provided 
M&K with the names of the officers, the inception dates, and the year-end dates for each of the 
Issuers.  From this, M&K was on notice that two of the officers controlled four Issuers.  M&K was 
also on notice that seven of the eleven Issuers were incorporated on the same day or within one day 
of each other (May 31, 2012 or June 1, 2012).   
                                                 
       2
         The PCAOB standards referenced herein are the standards     that were in effect during the 
time of relevant conduct. 

                                                 5 
                                                  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 

       30.    This information should have at least caused M&K and the Audit Partners to 
question why the Issuers’ dates of incorporation appeared to be coordinated.  The Audit Partners 
failed to ask any questions with respect to this information. 

       31.    For the above reasons, M&K’s client acceptance policies and procedures failed to 
meet QC 20 and, in the course of utilizing these procedures during the engagements at issue, the 
Audit Partners failed to meet AS 7, AS 12, and AU 230. 

       The Audit Partners Failed to Obtain an Understanding of the Issuers 

       32.    Under AS 12, auditors should “obtain an understanding of the company and its 
environment . . . to understand the events, conditions, and company activities that might reasonably 
be expected to have a significant effect on the risks of material misstatement,” including “[t]he 
nature of the company” (¶ 7.b.) and “[t]he company’s objectives and strategies and those related 
business risks that might reasonably be expected to result in risks of material misstatement” (¶ 
7.d.).  Further, obtaining an understanding of the nature of the company includes understanding 
“[t]he company’s organizational structure and management personnel; [t]he sources of funding of 
the company’s operations and investment activities, including the company’s capital structure[, 
t]he company’s operating characteristics, including its size and complexity” (¶ 10), and “an 
understanding of internal control includes evaluating the design of controls that are relevant to the 
audit and determining whether the controls have been implemented” (¶ 20). 

       33.    Additionally, auditors must meet AU 230, which requires that auditors “exercise 
professional skepticism” (at .07) and engagement partners “should be knowledgeable about the 
client” and are responsible for the “supervision of[] members of the engagement team” (.06). 

       34.    The Audit Partners failed to obtain a sufficient understanding of the Issuers.  What 
little understanding of the Issuers they obtained came almost entirely from draft Form S-1 
registration statements and responses to certain questionnaires from the Issuers, both provided by 
Briner.  The Audit Partners did not obtain an understanding of the Issuers through direct 
communication with the Issuers’ officers.   

       35.    In obtaining an understanding of the Issuers, the Audit Partners did not question the 
substantial similarities among the Issuers.  The Issuers filed eleven nearly identical Form S-1 
registration statements.  Using almost exactly the same language, each stated the following: (1) the 
Issuers are not blank check companies; (2) the Issuers’ officers purchased Issuer stock for $30,000; 
(2) the Issuers purchased British Columbia mineral claims from Jervis; (3) Jervis supplied nearly 
all the Issuers’ with their business plans; (4) the officers “solely” control the company; (5) the 
officers planned to devote only 4 to 5 hours each week to the business; and (6) the officers have 
not inspected the land comprising the mineral claims.   

       36.    Despite Manis reviewing ten of these Form S-1 registration statements and 
Ridenour reviewing nine, neither raised any concern about the similarities among the registration 
statements, or perform any enhanced procedures to respond to the level of risk presented. 

       37.    For the above reasons, the Audit Partners failed to meet AS 12 and AU 230.   

                                                 6 
                                                  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 

       The Audit Partners Failed to Properly Audit the Issuers’ Cash 

       38.      Under PCAOB standard AU Section 330 (The Confirmation Process) (“AU 330”), 
when “information about the respondent’s [i.e., the person or entity from which a confirmation is 
requested] competence, knowledge, motivation, ability, or willingness to respond, or about the 
respondent’s objectivity and freedom from bias with respect to the audited entity comes to the 
auditor’s attention, the auditor should consider the effects of such information on designing the 
confirmation request and evaluating the results” and, in circumstances where “the respondent is the 
custodian of a material amount of the audited entity’s assets,” the auditor should exercise “a 
heightened degree of professional skepticism” and “should consider whether there is sufficient 
basis for concluding that the confirmation request is being sent to a respondent from whom the 
auditor can expect the response will provide meaningful and appropriate audit evidence” (at .27).  

       39.    Additionally, under PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 15 (Audit Evidence) (“AS 
15”), “[t]he auditor must plan and perform audit procedures to obtain sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence to provide a reasonable basis for his or her opinion” (¶ 4).  To be appropriate, audit 
evidence must be both relevant and reliable in providing support for the conclusions on which the 
auditor’s opinion is based.  “The reliability of evidence depends on the nature and source of the 
evidence and the circumstances under which it is obtained” (¶ 8).  Under PCAOB Auditing 
Standard No. 13 (The Auditor’s Responses to the Risks of Material Misstatement) (“AS 13”), 
“[t]he auditor’s responses to the assessed risks of material misstatement, particularly fraud risks, 
should involve the application of professional skepticism in gathering and evaluating audit 
evidence” (¶ 7). 

       40.    The Audit Partners exhibited no concern about Briner’s handling of the Issuers’ 
alleged cash.  The Audit Partners knew that Briner held all of the Issuers’ purported funds in the 
Master Trust Account and that none of the Issuers had their own bank account.  The Audit Partners 
also knew that Briner was a “consultant” to the Issuers and that MetroWest was a law firm.  The 
Audit Partners did not seek any appropriate audit evidence about what, if any, limitations governed 
Briner’s use of the cash in his Master Trust Account.  Nor did they ask for a reconciliation between 
Briner’s Master Trust Account and the schedules Briner provided purportedly showing how much 
cash in his account was attributable to each Issuer. 

       41.    In addition, the Audit Partners violated the above standards by failing to apply 
professional skepticism in gathering and evaluating the evidence obtained, such as Briner’s 
confirmation of Issuer cash, and consider Briner’s “objectivity and freedom from bias with respect 
to the audited entity” in relation to the Issuers’ cash confirmation Briner provided. 

       The Audit Partners Disregarded Red Flags that Briner’s Services 
       to the Issuers Were Not Given Accounting Recognition 

       42.    Under PCAOB standard AU Section 334 (Related Parties) (“AU 334”), transactions 
that are indicative of the existence of related parties include, among other things, “transactions 
[that] are occurring, but are not being given accounting recognition, such as receiving or providing 
accounting, management or other services at no charge” (at .08(f)).  Further, under AS 15, “[i]f 
audit evidence obtained from one source is inconsistent with that obtained from another, or if the 
auditor has doubts about the reliability of information to be used as audit evidence, the auditor 

                                                7 
                                                  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 

should perform the audit procedures necessary to resolve the matter and should determine the 
effect, if any, on other aspects of the audit” (¶ 29).  Finally, auditors must exercise professional 
skepticism throughout the course of the engagement consistent with standard AU 230. 

       43.    The Audit Partners failed to question Briner’s fee arrangement with the Issuers.  
Instead, they relied on legal confirmation letters from Briner that conflicted on their face with what 
ledgers in their possession showed to be true about the services Briner provided.   

       44.    These letters each stated that “[a]s of the date of inception and up to the present 
date, the [Issuers were] not indebted to us for services and expenses (billed or unbilled) of which 
we are aware.”  The Audit Partners knew that Briner provided substantial services to the Issuers, 
such as, among other things, performing accounting functions (paying expenses and recording 
transactions), drafting the Issuers’ registration statements, and preparing the Issuers’ financial 
statements for their registration statements.  The Audit Partners also knew that the Issuers’ 
financial statements and general ledgers did not reflect payment for Briner’s services.    Despite 
this, the Audit Partners did not ask Briner for any invoices, agreements, engagement letters, or any 
details about his fee arrangements with the Issuers.  Nor did they conduct any related party 
analysis. 

       45.    For the above reasons, the Audit Partners failed to meet AU 334, AS 15, and AU 
230. 

       The Audit Partners Disregarded Red Flags that the 
       Issuers’ Stock Sales to Their Officers Were Shams 

       46.    Under PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 10 (Supervision of the Audit Engagement) 
(“AS 10”), the engagement partner “is responsible for proper supervision of the work of 
engagement team members and for compliance with PCAOB standards” (¶ 3) and should “[d]irect 
engagement team members to bring significant accounting and auditing issues arising during the 
audit to the attention of the engagement partner or other engagement team members performing 
supervisory activities so they can evaluate those issues and determine that appropriate actions are 
taken in accordance with PCAOB standards” (¶ 5 b.). 

       47.    Briner provided an M&K staff member with schedules for each of the Issuers 
(prepared by Briner) purportedly listing all transactions that the M&K staff member reviewed (the 
same person reviewed the audit evidence for all of the Issuers’ audits).   

       48.    Each of the schedules appeared to indicate that individuals or entities named 
“Hyperion Mgmt.”, “Luke Pretty”, or “Dhaliwal” supplied the funds to pay for the officers’ stock 
purchases and characterized these transactions as “investments.”  The Issuers’ registration 
statements and stock purchase agreements (also reviewed by the same M&K staff member referred 
to above), by contrast, indicated that the Issuers’ respective officers paid for and purchased the 
Issuers’ stock. 

       49.    Additionally, these schedules contained contradictions, such as dates listed for stock 
purchases that occurred (1) before the Issuers were incorporated or (2) after the Issuers purchased 
their mineral claims.   

                                                 8 
                                                  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

 

       50.    The Audit Partners disregarded these inconsistencies and contradictions in the audit 
evidence in violation of AS 15, AS 12, and AU 230.  The Audit Partners also failed to meet AS 10 
by failing to direct the M&K staff member reviewing the audit evidence to bring significant 
accounting and auditing issues to their attention and by otherwise failing to supervise the M&K 
Issuers’ audits. 

       The Audit Partners Failed to Detect Basic Accounting Errors and Inconsistencies 
       Between the Financial Statements and the Registration Statements 

       51.    Under AU 230, “[a]n auditor should possess ‘the degree of skill commonly 
possessed’ by other auditors and should exercise it with ‘reasonable care and diligence’ (that is, 
with due professional care)” (at .05).  Further, under AS 7, an engagement quality review partner 
should “review the financial statements” and “read other information in documents containing the 
financial statements to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission . . . and evaluate 
whether the engagement team has taken appropriate action with respect to any material 
inconsistencies with the financial statements or material misstatements of fact of which the 
engagement quality reviewer is aware” (¶ 10 f. and g.). 

       52.    During the audits and engagement quality reviews, the Audit Partners failed to 
detect basic mistakes in the Issuers’ financial statements and inconsistencies between the financial 
statements and information contained in other parts of the registration statements as reflected in the 
chart under Appendix A. 

       53.    Mistakes in the financial statements include, among other things, balance sheets 
that do not foot and conflicts between balance sheets and the notes to the financial statements.  
Inconsistences between the financial statements and other information in the registration 
statements include, among other things, the disclosure of a net loss in the registration statement that 
conflicts with what should be the same disclosure in the Statement of Operations in the financial 
statements.  These errors may constitute material misstatements and reflect the Audit Partners 
apparent lack of due care in conducting their audits and engagement quality reviews, respectively. 

       54.    For the reasons contained in the attached Chart under Appendix A, the Audit 
Partners failed to meet AU 230 and AS 7. 

       Manis Did Not Investigate Failures to Account For Audit Fees 

       55.    Under AS 15, “[t]he auditor must plan and perform audit procedures to obtain 
sufficient appropriate audit evidence to provide a reasonable basis for his or her opinion” (¶ 4).  In 
doing so, the auditor must exercise professional skepticism throughout the course of the 
engagement consistent with AU 230. 

       56.    Additionally, under PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 14 (Evaluating Audit Results) 
(“AS 14”), the “auditor should take into account all relevant audit evidence, regardless of whether 
it appears to corroborate or to contradict the assertions in the financial statements” (¶ 3) and should 
take into account “[t]ransactions that are not recorded in a complete or timely manner or are 
improperly recorded as to amount, accounting period, classification, or company policy” 
(Appendix C, C1.a.(1)). 

                                                9 
                                                  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

 

       57.    Manis did not question the Issuers’ failures to account for audit fees paid during the 
audit period.  Specifically, M&K requested retainers from Stone Boat and Goldstream, which were 
paid via wire transfers from Briner’s Master Trust Account during the audit period for these 
Issuers.  But the retainers M&K received from these Issuers were not reflected in the 
corresponding schedules that Briner prepared from his Master Trust Account and provided to 
M&K. 

       58.    For the above reasons, Manis failed to meet AS 14, AS 15, and AU 230. 

       Manis Accepted Accounting that Violated GAAP 

       59.    From November 2011 through June 2013, Manis served as the engagement partner 
in charge of auditing Stone Boat’s financial statements, the first of the eleven Issuers that M&K 
would audit.  On or about July 27, 2012, Manis consented to the inclusion of M&K’s audit report 
in Stone Boat’s Form S-1 registration statement. 

       60.    Manis accepted without question Briner’s improper accounting of certain material 
transactions.  Specifically, Briner deleted Stone Boat transactions that purportedly occurred during 
the audit period on grounds that Stone Boat had purportedly “rescind[ed]” the transactions after the 
audit period.   

       61.    On June 11, 2012, Briner’s assistant sent to M&K, among other things, a schedule 
purportedly reflecting cash attributable to Stone Boat in the Master Trust Account and financial 
statements for Stone Boat reflecting all transactions as of May 31, 2012 (Stone Boat’s period end).  
These documents reflected, among other things, (1) a $250,000 private placement for the sale of 
Stone Boat stock, (2) payments of $75,000 and $67,500 for property, and (3) a $10,000 legal 
retainer.  Briner’s assistant also sent a cash confirmation, dated June 11, 2012, signed by Briner 
confirming that as of May 31, 2012, Briner held $106,105 in cash attributable to Stone Boat in the 
Master Trust Account.   

       62.    On June 27, 2012, approximately one month after the period’s end, Briner sent an 
email to an M&K employee working on the Stone Boat audit stating the following: 

               There have been some dramatic changes with the company over the 
               past two weeks.  The Company was forced to rescind the private 
               placement it received for $250,000.  As such, it has reversed the two 
               property payments it made as well as the legal retainer for $10,000. 

               Accordingly, I have reversed all of the transactions required by these 
               changes and am sending you the updated financials and [general 
               ledger]. 

       63.    According to Briner’s email, the purported rescission apparently occurred after 
Briner sent the first set of Stone Boat financial statements on June 11, 2012 and therefore, after the 
period ending May 31, 2012.  These subsequent events, therefore, should be treated as non-
recognized subsequent events and should not result in adjustment of the financial statements.  See 
ASC 855-10-25-3 (Evidence about Conditions That Did Not Exist at the Date of the Balance 
Sheet).  Briner’s accounting on behalf of Stone Boat, therefore, violated GAAP.   Manis did not 

                                               10 
                                                  
---------------------Page 11---------------------

 

question the business rationale or motive behind the rescission or Stone Boat’s ability to back-out 
of the transactions such as by conducting an “examination of data to assure that proper cutoffs have 
been made and . . . information to aid the auditor in his evaluation of the assets and liabilities as of 
the balance-sheet date,” as required under PCAOB standard AU Section 560 (Subsequent Events) 
(“AU 560”) (at .11). 

       64.    Yet Manis accepted this accounting without question.  Further, Manis raised no 
concern with the new documents Briner provided that excluded the above transactions as well as a 
second cash confirmation dated July 20, 2012 and signed by Briner confirming that, as of May 31, 
2012, Briner held $9,570.00 of cash attributable to Stone Boat in his Master Trust Account.  Manis 
failed to resolve the material difference between the June 11, 2012 cash confirmation of $106,105 
and the July 20, 2012 cash confirmation of $9,570. 

       65.    In addition to consenting to the filing of his firm’s audit report where the Issuers’ 
underlying accounting violated GAAP, Manis failed to meet AS 15, AS 12, AS 3, AU 560, and 
AU 230 for failing to obtain sufficient appropriate evidence, exercise professional skepticism, and 
document the consideration of Briner’s accounting with respect to the alleged rescission.  Manis 
also failed to meet PCAOB standard AU Section 316 (Consideration of Fraud in a Financial 
Statement Audit) (“AU 316”) for not gaining “an understanding of the business rationale for [a 
significant transaction that is outside of the normal course of business for the entity] and whether 
that rationale (or the lack thereof) suggests that the transactions may have been entered into to 
engage in fraudulent financial reporting or conceal misappropriation of assets” (at .66). 

       66.    Further, Ridenour, as the engagement quality review partner for Stone Boat, 
violated AS 7, which provides that an engagement quality review partner should “evaluate the 
significant judgments made by the engagement team and the related conclusions reached in 
forming the overall conclusion on the engagement” (¶ 9).  Manis’s decision not to evaluate the 
manner in which Briner, on behalf of Stone Boat, accounted for the purported rescission was a 
significant judgment Ridenour should have, but failed, to evaluate. 

       Manis Ignored Red Flags Indicating that Briner May Have 
       Engaged in a Related Party Transaction With Stone Boat 

       67.    Under AU 334, transactions that because of their nature may be indicative of the 
existence of related parties include, among other things, “[b]orrowing or lending on an interest-free 
basis” and “[m]aking loans with no scheduled terms for when or how the funds will be repaid” (at 
.03(a) and (d)).  Further, under AS 15, “[i]f audit evidence obtained from one source is inconsistent 
with that obtained from another, or if the auditor has doubts about the reliability of information to 
be used as audit evidence, the auditor should perform the audit procedures necessary to resolve the 
matter and should determine the effect, if any, on other aspects of the audit” (¶ 29).  Finally, 
auditors must exercise professional skepticism throughout the course of the engagement consistent 
with AU 230. 

       68.    Manis ignored evidence indicating that Stone Boat may have engaged in a related 
party transaction with Briner and therefore failed to meet the above standards.   

       69.    On June 13, 2012, Briner’s assistant sent an email to an M&K employee with two 

                                                11 
                                                  
---------------------Page 12---------------------

 

documents: (1) a related party worksheet listing no related parties for the period ending May 31, 
2012 that was signed by Stone Boat’s officer, and (2) a confirmation that as of May 31, 2012, 
MetroWest issued a $100,000 “non-interest bearing demand loan” to Stone Boat.   

       70.    Despite the apparent contradiction between the MetroWest loan to Stone Boat and 
Stone Boat’s officer’s assertion that that there were no related party transactions during the audit 
period, the M&K employee did not investigate the nature of the alleged noninterest bearing loan 
from MetroWest, including whether it constituted a related party transaction.  As a result, Manis 
violated AU 334, AS 15, AU 230, and AS 10 by failing to direct the M&K staff member reviewing 
the audit evidence to bring this significant accounting and auditing issue to his attention and by 
otherwise failing to supervise the Stone Boat audit. 

RESPONDENTS VIOLATED SECTION 17(a) OF THE SECURITES ACT, RULE 2-02 OF 
   REGULATION S-X, AND ENGAGED IN IMPROPER PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT 
 
       71.    As a result of the conduct described above, Respondents violated Sections 17(a)(2) 
and (3) of the Securities Act by claiming that they conducted the Issuers’ audits in accordance with 
PCAOB standards when in fact they did not.   

       72.    Additionally, for failing to meet the PCAOB audit standards identified above in 
auditing the Issuers, Respondents engaged in improper professional conduct pursuant to the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) by each engaging in at least one instance of 
highly unreasonable conduct or at least two instances of unreasonable conduct under Rule 
102(e)(1)(iv).  Further, M&K violated Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X by providing audit 
reports included in the Issuers’ Form S-1 Registration statements that state that the Issuers’ audits 
were conducted in accordance with PCAOB standards when in fact they were not.  Manis and 
Ridenour caused M&K’s violations of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X by consenting to the 
filing of such audit reports. 

       73.    Further, as described above, Respondents willfully violated Sections 17(a)(2) and 
(3) of the Securities Act thereby engaging in conduct subject to the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice Rule 102(e)(1)(iii). 

                                 COMMISSION FINDINGS 

       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that: 

       A.     Respondents willfully violated Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act;  

       B.     Respondents engaged in improper professional conduct pursuant to Section 
4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice;  

       C.     M&K violated Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X;  

       D.     Manis and Ridenour caused violations of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X; and  

       E.     Respondents willfully violated Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act 
thereby engaging in conduct subject to Section 4C(a)(3) of the Exchange Act and Practice Rule 

                                              12 
                                                 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

 

102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 

                                       UNDERTAKINGS 

         Respondent M&K has undertaken to: 

       A.     Acceptance of New Audit Clients.  M&K will not accept any new audit client (i) 
registered with the Commission or (ii) seeking an audit for the purpose of registering securities 
with the Commission (together, “New Clients”) between the date of entry of this Order and the 
later of twelve months or the date that an independent consultant, described in paragraph B below, 
certifies in writing that the undertakings discussed herein have been completed to the satisfaction 
of the independent consultant, as described in paragraph D(5) below.  

       B.     Independent Consultant.   

               (1)     M&K will retain, within thirty days after the entry of this Order, an 
independent consultant (“Independent Consultant”), not unacceptable to the Commission staff.  
M&K shall provide to the Commission staff a copy of the engagement letter detailing the scope of 
the Independent Consultant’s responsibilities.  The Independent Consultant’s compensation and 
expenses shall be borne exclusively by M&K.   

               (2)     To ensure the independence of the Independent Consultant, M&K: (1) shall 
not have the authority to terminate the Independent Consultant or substitute another independent 
compliance consultant for the initial Independent Consultant, without the prior written approval of 
the Commission staff; and (2) shall compensate the Independent Consultant and persons engaged 
to assist the Independent Consultant for services rendered pursuant to this Order at their reasonable 
and customary rates. 

               (3)     M&K will require the Independent Consultant to enter into an agreement 
that provides that, for the period of engagement and for a period of two years from completion of 
the engagement, the Independent Consultant shall not enter into any employment, consultant, 
attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with M&K, or any of its present or 
former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such. The 
agreement will also provide that the Independent Consultant will require that any firm with which 
he/she is affiliated or of which he/she is a member, and any person engaged to assist the 
Independent Consultant in performance of his/her duties under this Order shall not, without prior 
written consent of the Division of Enforcement, enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-
client, auditing or other professional relationship with M&K, or any of its present or former 
affiliates, directors, officers, partners, employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such for the 
period of the engagement and for a period of two years after the engagement. 

       C.     Areas Independent Consultant Is To Review.  Within the periods specified in 
paragraph D below, the Independent Consultant will review and evaluate M&K’s audit and interim 
review policies and procedures regarding: 

               (1)     fraud detection;  

               (2)     the exercise of due professional care and professional skepticism;  

                                                13 
                                                  
---------------------Page 14---------------------

 

               (3)    client acceptance and retention; 

               (4)    obtaining sufficient appropriate audit evidence;  

               (5)    third-party confirmations;  

               (6)    the identification and consideration of disclosures of related parties and 
related party transactions;  

               (7)    evaluation of and reliance upon management representations;  

               (8)    supervision of individuals working on audits; and 

               (9)    adequate audit documentation, including work paper sign-off, archiving, 
and dating. 

M&K shall cooperate fully with the Independent Consultant and shall provide reasonable access to 
firm personnel, information, and records as the Independent Consultant may reasonably request for 
the Independent Consultant’s review and evaluation described herein and the reports specified in 
paragraph D below. 

       D.     Independent Consultant Reports and Certifications.   

               (1)    Within five months of the Independent Consultant being retained, M&K 
shall require the Independent Consultant to issue a detailed written report (“Report”) to M&K: (a) 
summarizing the Independent Consultant’s review and evaluation of the areas identified in 
paragraph C above; and (b) making recommendations, where appropriate, reasonably designed to 
ensure that audits conducted by M&K comply with Commission regulations and with PCAOB 
standards and rules.  M&K shall require the Independent Consultant to provide a copy of the 
Report to the Commission staff when the Report is issued. 

               (2)    M&K will adopt, as soon as practicable, all recommendations of the 
Independent Consultant in the Report.  Provided, however, that within thirty days of issuance of 
the Report, M&K may advise the Independent Consultant in writing of any recommendation that it 
considers to be unnecessary, unduly burdensome, or impractical.  M&K need not adopt any such 
recommendation at that time, but instead may propose in writing to the Independent Consultant 
and the Commission Staff an alternative policy or procedure designed to achieve the same 
objective or purpose.  M&K and the Independent Consultant will engage in good-faith negotiations 
in an effort to reach agreement on any recommendations objected to by M&K. 

               (3)    In the event that the Independent Consultant and M&K are unable to agree 
on an alternative proposal within thirty days, M&K either will abide by the determinations of the 
Independent Consultant or seek approval from the Commission staff pursuant to paragraph B(2) 
above to engage, at M&K’s expense, a qualified third party acceptable  to the Commission Staff to 
promptly resolve the issue(s). 

               (4)    Within sixty days of issuance of the Report, but not sooner than thirty days 
after a copy of the Report is provided to the Commission staff, M&K will certify to the 

                                               14 
                                                 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

 

Commission staff in writing that it has adopted and has implemented or will implement all 
recommendations of the Independent Consultant (“Certification of Compliance”).  M&K will 
provide a copy of the Certification of Compliance to the Commission staff. 

               (5)    Within six months of the issuance of the Report, M&K shall require the 
Independent Consultant to test whether M&K has implemented and enforced its written policies 
and procedures concerning the areas specified in paragraph C above and assess the effectiveness of 
those policies and procedures.  M&K shall require the Independent Consultant to issue a written 
final report summarizing the results of the Independent Consultant’s test and assessment (“Final 
Report”) and to provide a copy of the Final Report to the Commission Staff.  At this time, if the 
Independent Consultant determines that the undertakings discussed herein have been completed to 
the satisfaction of the Independent Consultant, M&K shall require the Independent Consultant to 
certify in writing that the undertakings have been so completed (“Independent Consultant 
Certification”) and provide a copy of this certification to the Commission staff.  M&K’s 
undertaking to not accept any New Clients, as described in paragraph A above, shall continue until 
the Independent Consultant has issued the Independent Consultant Certification. 

       E.     The Report, Final Report, Certification of Compliance, Independent Consultant 
Certification, and any related correspondence or other documents shall be submitted to Lara 
Shalov Mehraban, Assistant Regional Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange 
Commission, 200 Vesey Street, New York, NY 10281, with a copy to the Office of Chief Counsel 
of the Enforcement Division. 

       F.     For good cause shown, the Commission staff may extend any of the procedural 
dates relating to the undertakings.  Deadlines for procedural dates shall be counted in calendar 
days, except that if the last day falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the next business day shall be 
considered to be the last day. 

       G.     M&K agrees that if the Division of Enforcement believes that M&K has not 
satisfied these undertakings, it may petition the Commission to reopen the matter to determine 
whether additional sanctions are appropriate. 

       H.     In determining whether to accept M&K’s Offer, the Commission has considered 
these undertakings. 

                                               IV. 
        
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offer. 
        
       Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Exchange Act, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
        
       A.     Respondents shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
any future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act and Rule 2-02(b)(1) of 
Regulation S-X. 

                                               15 
                                                 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

 

       B.     Respondent M&K is censured. 

       C.     Respondent M&K shall pay disgorgement of $49,500.00 and prejudgment interest 
of $3,833.00, which represents profits gained as a result of the conduct described herein, and civil 
penalties of $50,000.00 for a total of $103,333.00 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for 
transfer  to  the  general  fund  of  the  United  States  Treasury,  subject  to  Exchange  Act  Section 
21F(g)(3).   Payment shall be made in the following installments:  (1) $20,666.60, within 10 days of 
the entry of this Order, (2) $20,666.60, within 90 days of the entry of this Order, (3) $20,666.60, 
within 180 days of the entry of this Order, (4) $20,666.60, within 270 days of the entry of this 
Order, and (5) $20,666.60, within 360 days of the entry of this Order.  If any payment is not made 
by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire outstanding balance of disgorgement, 
prejudgment interest, and civil penalties, plus any additional interest accrued pursuant to SEC Rule 
of Practice 600 or pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717, shall be due and payable immediately at the 
discretion of the staff of the Commission, without further application. 

       D.     Respondent  Manis  is  denied  the  privilege  of  appearing  or  practicing  before  the 
Commission as an accountant. 

       E.     Respondent  Manis  shall  pay  civil  penalties  of  $20,000.00  to  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to 
Exchange  Act  Section  21F(g)(3).   Payment  shall  be  made  in  the  following  installments:    (1) 
$4,000.00, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, (2) $4,000.00, within 90 days of the entry of 
this Order, (3) $4,000.00, within 180 days of the entry of this Order, (4) $4,000.00, within 270 days 
of the entry of this Order, and (5) $4,000.00, within 360 days of the entry of this Order.  If any 
payment is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire outstanding 
balance of civil penalties, plus any additional interest accrued pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717, shall be 
due and payable immediately at the discretion of the staff of  the Commission, without further 
application. 

       F.     Respondent Ridenour is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant. 

       G.     Respondent Ridenour shall pay civil penalties of $15,000.00 to the Securities and 
Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to 
Exchange  Act  Section  21F(g)(3).   Payment  shall  be  made  in  the  following  installments:    (1) 
$3,000.00, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, (2) $3,000.00, within 90 days of the entry of 
this Order, (3) $3,000.00, within 180 days of the entry of this Order, (4) $3,000.00, within 270 days 
of the entry of this Order, and (5) $3,000.00, within 360 days of the entry of this Order.  If any 
payment is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire outstanding 
balance of civil penalties, plus any additional interest accrued pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717, shall be 
due and payable immediately at the discretion of the staff of the Commission, without further 
application. 

       H.       Payment of disgorgement and civil penalties as described in Section IV, paragraphs 
C, E, and G herein must be made in one of the following ways:   
        
               (1)    Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 

                                                16 
                                                  
---------------------Page 17---------------------

 

will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
        
               (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
                
               (3)     Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and hand-
delivered or mailed to:  
        
       Enterprise Services Center 
       Accounts Receivable Branch 
       HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
       6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
       Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
        
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying the 
Respondent by name in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the 
cover  letter  and  check  or  money  order  must  be  sent  to  Lara  Shalov  Mehraban,  Division  of 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 200 Vesey Street, NY 10281.   
 
       I.      The Division of Enforcement (“Division”) may, at any time following the entry of 
this Order, petition the Commission to: (1) reopen this matter to consider whether Respondent 
provided accurate and complete financial information at the time such representations were made; 
and (2) seek an order directing payment of disgorgement and pre-judgment interest. No other issue 
shall be considered in connection with this petition other than whether the financial information 
provided  by  Respondent  was  fraudulent, misleading,  inaccurate, or  incomplete in  any  material 
respect. Respondent may not, by way of defense to any such petition: (1) contest the findings in this 
Order; (2) assert that payment of disgorgement and interest should not be ordered; (3) contest the 
amount of disgorgement and interest to be ordered; or (4) assert any defense to liability or remedy, 
including, but not limited to, any statute of limitations defense. 
        
       J.      Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be 
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To preserve 
the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that in any Related Investor Action, they 
shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or reduction of any award of 
compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondents’ payment of a civil penalty in this 
action (“Penalty Offset”).  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, 
Respondents agree that they shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty 
Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to 
the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil 
penalty  and  shall  not  be  deemed  to  change  the  amount  of  the  civil  penalty  imposed  in  this 
proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a private damages 
action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based on substantially 
the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this proceeding. 
 

                                               17 
                                                  
---------------------Page 18---------------------

 

                                                 V. 
                                                    
       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S. C. §523, that the findings in this Order are true and admitted 
by Respondents, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other 
amounts due by Respondents under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree 
or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by 
Respondents of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set 
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. § 523(a)(19). 
        
        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
                                                              Brent J. Fields 
                                                              Secretary 
                                

                                                 18 
                                                    
---------------------Page 19---------------------

 

                                                 Appendix A 

                                                          

    Issuer        Engagement        EQR                      Audited Financial Statement Errors/ 
                    Partner        Partner        Conflict Between Audited Financial Statements and Other 
                                                              Registration Statement Information 
  Stone Boat         Manis        Ridenour   Audited Financial Statement Errors 
                                                 The amounts for Net Cash Used in Operating Activities of 
                                                  $(20,430), Net Cash Used in Investing Activities of $(20,000) and 
                                                  Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities of $30,000 do not foot 
                                                  to the amount presented as Net Change in Cash of $9,570 on the 
                                                  Statement of Cash Flows on Page F-6.  The accurately footed 
                                                  amount is $(10,430).   
                                                 The Net Change in Cash of $9,570 reported on Page F-6 of the 
                                                  Statements of Cash Flows and the Cash at beginning of period of 
                                                  $30,000 do not foot to the Cash at End of Period reported as 
                                                  $9,570.  The accurately footed amount is $19,570. 
                                                 The Recognition of an Impairment Loss (Mineral Claims) of $0 in 
                                                  the Statement of Cash Flows on Page F-6 does not match the 
                                                  Recognition of an Impairment Loss (Property Expenses) of 
                                                  $20,000 on the Statement of Operations on Page F-4.  The 
                                                  Statement of Cash Flows is effectively prepared incorrectly.  The 
                                                  Net Cash Used in Operating Activities of ($20,430) is overstated 
                                                  for both periods presented.  
                                                 The Cash at beginning of period of $30,000 “For the period 
                                                  ending” May 31, 2012 does not match the amount of $0 in the 
                                                  column From Inception (September 28, 2011) to May 31, 2012, 
                                                  both amounts appear on the Statement of Cash Flows on Page F-6.  
                                                  The amounts in both columns on page F-6 appear to be the same 
                                                  for both periods presented until the $30,000 amount at the 
                                                  beginning of period in “For the period ending May 31, 2012” 
                                                  column.  There is no balance sheet presented that shows the 
                                                  $30,000 opening balance for cash. 
                                               
                                              Conflict Between Audited Financial Statements and Other 
                                              Registration Statement Information 
                                               
                                                 The Weighted average shares outstanding basic of 16,175,342 
                                                  under Consolidated Statements of Income and Summary Financial 
                                                  Information on Page 5 does not match the amount of 24,000,000 
                                                  listed on the Statement of Operations on Page F-4. 
                                                   
   Kingman          Ridenour        Manis     Audited Financial Statement Errors 
                                                 The Net Cash Used in Operating Activities of $0 does not foot to 
                                                 the amount of Net Change in Cash of $(1,995) on the Statement of 
                                                 Cash Flows for the 3 months ended November 30, 2012 (Page F-
                                                 16).  The Cash at the End of Period of $14,330 on page F-16 does 
                                                 not match cash of $16,325 as of November 30, 2012 on the 
                                                 Balance Sheet on page F-14. 
                                                 The NOL listed in Note 2 as $13,675 is not consistent with Note 7, 
                                                 which lists the NOL as $6,175. 
                                                  
                                              Conflict Between Audited Financial Statements and Other 
                                              Registration Statement Information 
                                               

                                                        19 
                                                          
---------------------Page 20---------------------

 

    Issuer        Engagement        EQR                       Audited Financial Statement Errors/ 
                    Partner        Partner         Conflict Between Audited Financial Statements and Other 
                                                              Registration Statement Information 
                                                 “The Company has incurred a net loss of $15,670 for the period 
                                                 from inception to August 31, 2012” as disclosed on Page 34 under 
                                                 Liquidity and Capital Resources, does not match the amount in the 
                                                 Statement of Operations for the same period, which is $(13,675) 
                                                 (Page F-4).   
                                                  
   Bonanza          Ridenour        Manis     Audited Financial Statement Error 
                                                The NOL listed in Note 2 on page F-7 as $13,675 is not consistent 
                                                 with Note 7 on page F-12, which lists the NOL as $6,175.  
                                               
                                              Conflict Between Audited Financial Statements and Other 
                                              Registration Statement Information 
                                               
                                                “The Company has current assets of $14,330… as of November 
                                                 30, 2012” as disclosed on Page 30 under Liquidity and Capital 
                                                 Resources does not match the amount of Total current assets as of 
                                                 November 30, 2012 on the Balance Sheet, which is $16,325 (Page 
                                                 F-14). 
                                                  
     CBL            Ridenour        Manis     Audited Financial Statement Error 
                                                The NOL listed in Note 2 on page F-7 as $13,675 is not consistent 
                                                 with Note 7 on page F-12, which lists the NOL as $6,175.  
                                               
                                              Conflict Between Audited Financial Statements and Other 
                                              Registration Statement Information 
                                               
                                                “The Company has incurred a net loss of $13,675 for the period 
                                                 from inception to November 30, 2012” as disclosed on Page 32 
                                                 under Liquidity and Capital Resources does not match the amount 
                                                 in the Statement of Operations for the same period, which is 
                                                 $(15,670) (Page F-15). 
                                                  
  Lost Hills        Ridenour        Manis     Audited Financial Statement Error 
                                                The NOL listed in Note 2 on page F-7 as $13,675 is not consistent 
                                                 with Note 7 on page F-12, which lists the NOL as $6,175. 
                                                  
    Yuma            Ridenour        Manis     Audited Financial Statement Error 
                                                The NOL listed in Note 2 on page F-7 as $13,675 is not consistent 
                                                 with Note 7 on page F-12, which lists the NOL as $6,175. 
                                                  
    Eclipse          Another        Manis     Audited Financial Statement Error 
                  M&K Partner                 The NOL listed in Note 2 on page F-7 as $11,175 is not consistent 
                                                 with Note 7 on page F-11, which lists the NOL as $2,675. 
                                                  
    Chum             Another        Manis     Audited Financial Statement Error 
                  M&K Partner                 The NOL listed in Note 2 on page F-7 as $10,175 is not consistent 
                                                 with the table in Note 7 on page F-12, which lists the net loss 
                                                 before taxes as $2,675. 
                                                  

                                                          

 

                                                        20 
                                                          
