---------------------Page 1---------------------

                         UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                    Before the 
                  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 9744 / April 9, 2015 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 74691 / April 9, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3650 / April 9, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16033 
 
                                                    ORDER  MAKING FINDINGS, 
In the Matter of                                    AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL 
                                                    SANCTIONS AND A CEASE -
      AIRTOUCH  COMMUNICATIONS, INC. ,              AND-DESIST ORDER  
      HIDEYUKI KANAKUBO  , AND                      PURSUANT TO SECTION 8A 
      JEROME KAISER , CPA,                          OF THE SECURITIES ACT 
                                                    OF 1933 AND SECTION S 4C 
Respondent s.                                       AND 21C OF THE 
                                                    SECURITIES EXCHANGE 
                                                    ACT OF 1934  AND RULE 
                                                    102(e) OF THE 
                                                     COMMISSION’S RULES 
                                                                       
                                                             
                                                    
                                                     
                                            
                                        I.  

      On August 22, 2014, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) instituted 
proceedings pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 
21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against AirTouch Communications, 
Inc., Hideyuki Kanakubo, and Jerome Kaiser, CPA (collectively, “Respondents”), and additionally  
 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                        1
as to Kaiser, pursuant to Section 4C      of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the 
                                     2
Commission’s Rules of Practice.  

                                                       II. 
 
        Respondent Jerome Kaiser has submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the 
Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other 
proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party and 
without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over 
him and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein 
in Section V, Respondent Kaiser consents to the entry of this Order Making Findings and Imposing 
Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 
1933 and Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice as to Jerome Kaiser (“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                                      III. 
 
                                                                                                    3
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent Kaiser’s Offer, the Commission finds                that:  
                                                         
                                                  Summary 
 
                 1.      This matter involves fraudulent financial misstatements by AirTouch, a 
Newport Beach, California issuer, its founder and former president and CEO Kanakubo, and its 
former CFO and corporate secretary Jerome Kaiser, CPA (“Kaiser”), in the company’s voluntarily 
filed Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 2012, and to an investor in connection with a $2 million 
loan made to the company in the fall of 2012.   

                                                 
1
    Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:     
 
                 The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or                permanently, 
                 to any person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in 
                 any way, if that person is found . . . (3) to have willfully violated, or willfully 
                 aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the           rules 
                 and regulations thereunder.      
 
2
    Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that:    
 
                 The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
                 appearing or practicing before it . . . to any pe    rson who is found . . .   to have 
                 will fully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of any provision of 
                 the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.          
 
3
    The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent          Kaiser’s Offer of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
 

                                                       2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

              2.     In the third quarter of 2012, AirTouch improperly recognized net revenues 
of $1.031 million based on $1.24 million of inventory shipped to a Florida entity.  This revenue 
recognition was improper because, as Kanakubo and Kaiser knew, or were reckless in not 
knowing, a fulfillment and logistics agreement executed contemporaneously with the Florida 
entity’s purchase order—and upon which the purchase order was conditioned—relieved that entity 
of any obligation to pay AirTouch unless and until an AirTouch customer purchased the inventory.  
Kanakubo and Kaiser also knowingly, recklessly or negligently made false representations and 
omissions about this revenue to an AirTouch investor and lender.  This conduct in inflating the 
revenues and obtaining financing was also deceptive and constituted a scheme to defraud.  

              3.     In early 2013, AirTouch filed a Form 8-K disclosing its intention to restate 
net revenues for the third quarter of 2012, based on erroneous revenue recognition.   

                                         Respondents 
                                                 
              4.     AirTouch Communications, Inc. is a Delaware corporation with its 
principal place of business in Newport Beach, California.  AirTouch’s common stock is quoted on 
the OTC Pinks under the symbol “ATCH.”   AirTouch develops and sells telecommunications 
equipment designed to integrate mobile telephones into landline telephone systems within a 
consumer’s home.   

              5.      Hideyuki Kanakubo resides in Irvine, California.  He is AirTouch’s 
founder and former president, CEO, and director.  At all relevant times, Kanakubo was responsible 
for the management of AirTouch’s business.  As of May 31, 2014, Kanakubo beneficially owned 
or controlled 1,858,143 shares of AirTouch common stock, or 9% of the company’s total 
outstanding shares.  Kanakubo resigned as president and CEO in March 2013.   

              6.     Jerome Kaiser, CPA resides in Santa Barbara, California.  Kaiser is a 
licensed Certified Public Accountant in California and an active member in the AICPA and 
California Society of Public Accountants.  Kaiser holds a BS in Accounting and an MS in Business 
Taxation.  He is AirTouch’s former CFO and corporate secretary.  At all relevant times, Kaiser was 
responsible for the management of AirTouch’s business.  As of May 31, 2014, Kaiser owned 
options to acquire 520,096 shares of AirTouch common stock at a strike price of $2 per share.   He 
resigned from AirTouch in April 2013. 

                                          Background 
                                                 
              7.     In or around early 2012, AirTouch developed a new product, the “U250 
SmartLinx”, designed for sale to Mexico’s largest provider of landline telephone services (the 
“Mexican Entity”).     

              8.     On July 30, 2012, AirTouch contacted a Florida provider of logistics and 
fulfillment services (the “Florida Entity”) about the possibility of warehousing AirTouch’s U250 
SmartLinx product for possible sale to the Mexican Entity.  AirTouch had never done business 
with the Florida Entity prior to July 30, 2012. 

                                               3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

               9.      During contract negotiations related to this potential warehousing 
arrangement, the Florida Entity’s CEO told Kanakubo that the Florida Entity was not buying any 
product from AirTouch, but rather would only warehouse the U250 SmartLinx inventory for 
eventual delivery to the Mexican Entity or other customers of AirTouch.  AirTouch’s salesperson 
relayed the same information to Kaiser.   

               10.    On July 30, 2012, Kaiser sent Kanakubo a Fulfillment and Logistics 
Agreement between AirTouch and the Florida Entity (the “Agreement”), asking him to 
immediately review and sign it, which Kanakubo did.  The Agreement included, among other 
terms, the following provisions:    

       a)     “Section 3 (Orders and Acceptance):  [The Florida Entity]’s purchase orders are 
               subject to purchase orders by [the Mexican Entity] and/or any other customer that 
               may be assigned from time to time by AirTouch.  In the event [the Mexican Entity] 
               or any of the customers does not fulfill the purchase orders and/or cancels the 
               orders, [the Florida Entity] shall have the right to return these products to AirTouch 
               and obtain a full credit equal to the original purchase amount with no offsets or 
               deductions or any kind.”; 

       b)     “Section 5 (Resale to [the Mexican Entity] and/or Assigned Customers by 
               AirTouch):  [The Florida Entity] shall store the merchandise until shipment of the 
               Products and shall invoice AirTouch for storage of the products, in/out control, 
               invoicing, stock reconciliation, at 1.5% of the invoice value for the first 30 days and 
               an additional 1% for each additional 30 days.”; and 

       c)     “Section 6 (Payment):  [The Florida Entity] shall pay for Products in 90 days in 
               accordance with the payment terms invoiced by AirTouch.  However, [the Florida 
               Entity] shall not be obligated to pay AirTouch until the Products have been received 
               by [the Mexican Entity] and [the Florida Entity] has received full payment therefor, 
               at which time then [the Florida Entity] shall pay AirTouch for the Products within 
               10 days thereafter.” 

               11.    The same day, the Florida Entity issued a $1.74 million “purchase order” 
for 20,000 U250 SmartLinx (the “Purchase Order”).  The Purchase Order stated a payment term of 
“Net 90” but also stated that its payment terms were “according to term sheet.”   The Agreement 
was the “term sheet.”  Kaiser received emails where representatives of the Florida Entity described 
the Purchase Order as “conditional” upon AirTouch’s execution of the Agreement.  Kanakubo was 
also made aware that the Florida Entity would not issue the Purchase Order unless AirTouch first 
executed the Agreement. 

               12.    On July 31, 2012, the Florida Entity sent Kaiser the counter-signed 
Agreement and the Purchase Order in a single email.   Before forwarding this email to AirTouch’s 
controller, he deleted the Agreement as an attachment, and forwarded only the Purchase Order. 

               13.    AirTouch shipped approximately $1.24 million of inventory to the Florida 
Entity during the third quarter of 2012, pursuant to the Agreement and the Purchase Order.  

                                                4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

AirTouch recognized revenue on all $1.24 million of inventory shipped to the Florida Entity during 
the quarter. 

               14.    In October 2012, in connection with AirTouch’s quarterly review, 
AirTouch’s controller provided its outside auditor with a copy of the Purchase Order, but not the 
Agreement.  The outside auditor did not receive the Agreement since Kaiser had never provided 
AirTouch’s controller with the agreement. 

               15.    When discussing the purported receivable AirTouch booked from the 
Florida Entity at board meetings, Kanakubo and Kaiser did not inform AirTouch’s outside 
directors, including the chairman of the audit committee, that shipments to the Florida Entity were 
controlled by the Agreement.  

               16.    AirTouch did not receive any payment from the Florida Entity during the 
third quarter of 2012, and likewise received no commitment from the Mexican Entity that it would 
buy product shipped to the Florida Entity, or otherwise.  

               1.   AirTouch’s Form 10-Q for the Third Quarter 2012  

               17.    On November 14, 2012, AirTouch filed its Form 10-Q for the third quarter 
of 2012, reporting net revenues of $1,031,747.  Without the revenue recognized on the inventory 
shipped to the Florida Entity, AirTouch would not have had any positive revenue for the quarter.   

               18.    Under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”), revenue 
cannot be recognized unless it is “realized or realizable” and “earned.”   

               19.    AirTouch’s recognition of revenues for the inventory shipped to the Florida 
Entity did not comply with GAAP.  Because AirTouch did not sell any product to the Florida 
Entity—the Purchase Order and the Agreement merely documented, for tracking purposes, the 
transfer of AirTouch inventory to the Florida Entity in contemplation of future sales—the revenue 
associated with shipments to the Florida Entity was not realized, realizable or earned.   

               20.    AirTouch’s revenue recognition policy, which was disclosed in the 10-Q 
and was consistent with the requirements of GAAP, permitted the recognition of revenue only 
where:  “(1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists in the form of an accepted purchase 
order or equivalent documentation; (2) delivery has occurred, based on shipping terms, or services 
have been provided; (3) the company’s price to the buyer is fixed or determinable, as documented 
on the accepted purchase order or similar documentation; and (4) collectability is reasonably 
assured.” 

               21.    Given the terms of the Purchase Order and the Agreement, AirTouch had no 
reasonable assurance of collectability from the Florida Entity because AirTouch did not have a 
valid receivable to collect from the Florida Entity.     

               22.    Kanakubo and Kaiser signed certifications intended to be made pursuant to 
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, stating that the Form 10-Q fairly presented AirTouch’s financial 
condition and results.     

                                                5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

              23.    Kanakubo and Kaiser knew, or were reckless in not knowing, that 
AirTouch’s Form 10-Q contained materially false or misleading statements concerning reported 
net revenues and compliance with GAAP or AirTouch’s revenue recognition policy.   

              24.    The false and misleading statements in AirTouch’s Form 10-Q occurred in 
connection with the purchase or sale of securities. 

              25.    The false and misleading statements in AirTouch’s Form 10-Q were 
material.  These statements would have been viewed by a reasonable investor as significantly 
altering the total mix of available information, given that AirTouch would not have had any 
positive revenues for the quarter if it did not recognize the revenue from the Florida Entity.  The 
Form 10-Q also reflected AirTouch’s largest revenues ever reported for a quarter.   

              26.    Kanakubo and Kaiser each knew about the Agreement but did not provide it 
to others involved in AirTouch’s financial reporting process, including the controller, the chairman 
of the audit committee, and the company’s outside auditor.  This and other deceptive conduct 
contributed to a revenue recognition scheme and operated as a fraud.  

              27.    Because of Kanakubo’s and Kaiser’s positions as AirTouch’s senior 
management, their scienter is attributable to AirTouch. 

              28.    At all relevant times, Kanakubo and Kaiser were the company’s principal 
officers; they were the members of management in charge of AirTouch’s day-to-day management, 
policies, and operations; and they were responsible for preparing and signing AirTouch’s SEC 
filings.   

              2.  Misstatements and Omissions Made to an Investor  

              29.    In or around 2012, Kanakubo and Kaiser solicited a short term bridge loan 
from an existing AirTouch investor (“Investor A”), in exchange for a promissory note and a 
warrant to purchase 100,000 shares of AirTouch common stock.  Investor A recommended the 
loan and warrant acquisition opportunity to a related entity, for which he served as the authorized 
agent during the due diligence process.   

              30.    On October 3, 2012, Kanakubo falsely told Investor A by email that the 
inventory to be shipped by AirTouch to the Florida Entity—which he mischaracterized as an 
“authorized fulfillment house” for the Mexican Entity—pertained to an existing purchase order 
from the Mexican Entity.    

              31.    Around the same time, Kaiser provided Investor A’s representatives with 
the Purchase Order, but did not provide them with or disclose the existence of the Agreement. 

              32.    On October 17, 2012, AirTouch received the loan of $2 million from 
Investor A in exchange for a warrant to purchase its common stock.   

              33.    On October 19, 2012, Kanakubo approved a $15,000 bonus payment to 
Kaiser for his work on raising capital.  The same day, Kanakubo authorized a $15,000 payment to 
himself in connection with unused vacation time.    

                                                6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

               34.    Kanakubo and Kaiser knew, or were reckless in not knowing, that their 
statements to Investor A concerning revenues from the Florida Entity were materially false and 
misleading.   

               35.    Kanakubo and Kaiser also failed to act with reasonable care because   
they did not ensure that Investor A was provided with all material information necessary to make 
their statements to him concerning the inventory shipped to the Florida Entity not misleading. 

               36.    The false and misleading statements and omissions to Investor A occurred 
in the offer or sale of, and in connection with the purchase or sale of, securities. 

               37.    Kanakubo’s and Kaiser’s false and misleading statements to Investor A, and 
their failure to disclose the terms of the Agreement, were material.  Kanakubo’s and Kaiser’s 
statements to Investor A, and the terms of the Agreement, would have been viewed by a reasonable 
investor as significantly altering the total mix of available information because, among other 
reasons, AirTouch had not sold any of the inventory warehoused with the Florida Entity to the 
Mexican Entity, and thus had no basis to represent that it expected to collect revenue from the 
Florida Entity.   

               38.    Kanakubo and Kaiser persuaded Investor A over several months into 
loaning AirTouch $2 million based on a distorted view of AirTouch’s financial relationships with 
the Mexican Entity and the Florida Entity.  They led Investor A to believe that AirTouch would 
receive a substantial financial commitment from the Mexican Entity, which would then provide 
AirTouch with sufficient cash flow for AirTouch to service and repay the loan.  These inducements 
by Kanakubo and Kaiser, along with other deceptive conduct, contributed to an offering fraud 
scheme and a fraudulent transaction.   

               39.    Because of Kanakubo’s and Kaiser’s positions as AirTouch’s senior 
management, their scienter and their negligence are attributable to AirTouch. 

               40.    At all relevant times, Kanakubo and Kaiser were the company’s principal 
officers; there were the members of management in charge of AirTouch’s day-to-day management, 
policies, and operations; and they were responsible for negotiating with Investor A, providing 
Investor A with due diligence materials, and for preparing and signing AirTouch’s SEC filings.   

               3.  AirTouch’s Restatement 

               41.    In January 2013, AirTouch’s board of directors commenced an internal 
investigation concerning the net revenues reported in the Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 2012.    

               42.    AirTouch’s board of directors and its outside auditor subsequently received 
the Agreement, and determined to restate reported revenues for the third quarter of 2012. 

               43.    AirTouch filed a Form 8-K on February 7, 2013, announcing errors in 
revenue recognition and the intention to file an amended Form 10-Q.  No amended Form 10-Q has 
been filed. 

                                                7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

                                            Violations 

               44.    As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent Kaiser willfully 
violated Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 
thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in the offer and sale of securities and in connection 
with the purchase or sale of securities.   

                                                IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate, in the public interest to 
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Kaiser’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.      Respondent Kaiser shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations 
and any future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and Sections 10(b) of the Exchange 
Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.   
        
       B.      Respondent Kaiser is prohibited, pursuant to Section 8A(f) of the Securities Act and 
Section 21C(f) of the Exchange Act, for ten years following the date of entry of this Order, from 
acting as an officer or director of any issuer that has a class of securities registered pursuant to 
Section 12 of the Exchange Act or that is required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the 
Exchange Act.  
                
       C.      Respondent Kaiser is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant. 
        
       D.      After ten years from the date of this Order, Respondent Kaiser may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief 
Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as:  
 
               1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review,  
                      of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the 
                       Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                       Respondent Kaiser’s work in his practice before the Commission will be 
                       reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
                       for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he 
                       practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or  
        
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the  
                       Commission that: 
 
                       (a)    Respondent Kaiser, or the public accounting firm with which he is  
                              associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting 
                              Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley 
                              Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
                
                       (b)    Respondent Kaiser, or the registered public accounting firm with  

                                                 8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

                              which he is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that 
                              inspection did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in 
                              his or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that he 
                              will not receive appropriate supervision; 
                
                      (c)     Respondent Kaiser has resolved all disciplinary issues with the  
                              Board, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any 
                              sanctions imposed by the Board (other than reinstatement by the 
                              Commission); and 
                
                      (d)     Respondent Kaiser acknowledges his responsibility, as long as he  
                              appears or practices before the Commission as an independent 
                              accountant, to comply with all requirements of the Commission and 
                              the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to 
                              registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
                              control standards. 
 
         E.   The Commission will consider an application by Respondent Kaiser to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and 
he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  
However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent Kaiser’s 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 
        
       F.      Respondent Kaiser shall, within 365 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil 
money penalty in the amount of $60,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer 
to the general fund of United States Treasury in accordance with Section 21F(g)(3) of the 
Exchange Act.  If timely payment is not made, the entire outstanding balance of civil penalties, 
plus any additional interest accrued pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, shall be due and payable 
immediately, without further application.  Payment must be made in one of the following ways:   
 
               (1)    Respondent Kaiser may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, 
                      which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon 
                      request;  
                
               (2)    Respondent Kaiser may make direct payment from a bank account via 
                      Pay.gov through the SEC website at 
                      http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
                
               (3)    Respondent Kaiser may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or 
                      United States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and 
                      Exchange Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 

                                                9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

              Enterprise Services Center 
              Accounts Receivable Branch 
              HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
              6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
              Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Kaiser as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of 
the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Diana Tani, Assistant Regional Director, 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, Los Angeles Regional Office, 444 South 
Flower St., Suite 900, Los Angeles, CA  90071. 
 
       G.     Respondent Kaiser shall, within 365 days of the entry of this Order, pay 
disgorgement of $15,000, which represents profits gained as a result of the conduct described 
herein, to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United 
States Treasury in accordance with Section 21F(g)(3) of the Exchange Act.  If timely payment is 
not made, any interest accrued pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600, shall be due and payable 
immediately, without further application.  Payment must be made in one of the following ways:   
 
              (1)     Respondent Kaiser may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, 
                      which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon 
                      request;  
               
              (2)     Respondent Kaiser may make direct payment from a bank account via 
                      Pay.gov through the SEC website at 
                      http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
               
              (3)     Respondent Kaiser may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or 
                      United States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and 
                      Exchange Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
              Enterprise Services Center 
              Accounts Receivable Branch 
              HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
              6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
              Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Kaiser as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of 
the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Diana Tani, Assistant Regional Director, 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, Los Angeles Regional Office, 444 South 
Flower St., Suite 900, Los Angeles, CA 90071. 
        
                                               V. 

       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by 

                                              10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

Respondent Kaiser, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or 
other amounts due by Respondent Kaiser under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent 
order, decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the 
violation by Respondent Kaiser of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued 
under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 

 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
                                                      Brent J. Fields 
                                                      Secretary 

                                                11 
