---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                    
                          UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                    Before the 
                  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 9914 / September 17, 2015 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 75941 / September 17, 2015 
 
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940 
Release No. 31829 / September 17, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3697 / September 17, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16819 
 
 
                                            ORDER INSTITUTING 
In the Matter of                            ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE -AND-
                                            DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT 
      PHILIP A.  PENDERGRAFT ,              TO SECTION  8A OF THE SECURITIES 
      KEVIN W. MCALEER,  CPA,               ACT OF 1933 , SECTIONS  4C, 15(b), 
      THOMAS R. JOHNSON ,                   AND 21C OF THE S ECURITIES 
      and CHARLES W. YANCEY ,               EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  , SECTION 
                                            9(b) OF THE INVESTMENT COMPANY 
Respondents.                                ACT OF 1940 , AND RULE 102(e) OF 
                                             THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                        
                                             
                                                                               
                                             
 
                                        I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, 
instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Sections 15(b) 
and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and Section 9(b) of the 
Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”), against Philip A. Pendergraft, 
Exchange Act Sections 4C and 21C, and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                    
against Kevin W. McAleer, CPA, Exchange Act Section 21C against Thomas R. Johnson, and 
Exchange Act Section 15(b) against Charles W. Yancey. 
                                                  
                                                II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (“Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose 
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are 
admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondents consent to the entry of this 
Order Instituting Public Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A 
of the Securities Act of 1933, Sections 4C, 15(b), and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules 
of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order 
(“Order”), as set forth below. 
                                                  
                                               III. 
 
                                                                                  1
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds    that  
 
A.     Summary 
 
       1.      These proceedings relate to approximately $100 million in failed margin loans made 
by now-defunct Penson Financial Services, Inc. (“PFSI”)—which was once the second largest 
clearing broker-dealer in the U.S.—to certain of its customers.  PFSI made the bulk of these margin 
loans between 1999 and 2008 to Christopher J. Hall and his affiliates, including a company named 
Call Now, Inc. (“Call Now”), who invested in risky, unrated municipal bonds.  Hall was the 
Chairman of Call Now’s board of directors, and in 2006 Call Now became a large shareholder of 
PFSI’s publicly traded parent company, Penson Worldwide, Inc. (“PWI”). 
        
       2.      In the wake of the financial crisis of 2008, PFSI incurred significant losses on these 
margin loans to Hall and Call Now because their margin collateral had plummeted in value.  A 
substantial portion of Hall and Call Now’s margin collateral consisted of distressed municipal bonds 
related to a financially struggling horse racetrack in Texas operated by Call Now.  Hall and Call 
Now failed to satisfy margin calls issued by PFSI because they did not have sufficient assets.  Hall 
and Call Now’s primary hope of satisfying PFSI’s margin calls rested on speculation that a future 
change in Texas gambling laws would allow slot machines at Texas horse racetracks.  Nevertheless, 
PFSI failed to liquidate these customers’ collateral to satisfy their margin calls because doing so 

                                                 
1
       The findings herein are made   pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
 

                                                  

                                                 2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                                   
would lock in large losses for PFSI and PWI (collectively “Penson”).  Instead, in 2009 and 2010 
Penson extended additional loans to these customers, hoping that they would survive financially and 
their collateral value would improve in the future so that Penson could reverse the losses on the 
margin loans.  But these additional loans improperly increased Hall and Call Now’s indebtedness to 
PFSI in violation of federal margin regulations, which are designed to prevent the excessive use of 
credit by broker-dealers. 
        
       3.      Under the accounting standards governing public companies and broker-dealers, 
Penson should have recognized losses on the loans as early as 2009, but did not do so until nearly 
two years later.  As a result, Penson failed to present its financial statements in SEC filings in 
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“GAAP”), for the annual 
periods ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2010, and with respect to PWI, the quarterly 
periods ended March 31, 2010 through June 30, 2011.  In addition, Penson failed to adequately 
disclose the nature of the loans in SEC filings for the 2009 and 2010 annual periods in violation of 
applicable disclosure requirements. 
        
       4.      PWI ultimately recorded more than $60 million in losses for these loans in 2011 and 
2012.  These losses and other disclosures about the loans beginning in 2011 contributed to a series 
of events resulting in PWI and PFSI’s bankruptcies in 2013. 
        
       5.      Respondent Philip A. Pendergraft, Penson’s co-founder, Director and CEO of PWI, 
and an Executive Vice President (“EVP”) of PFSI, managed Penson’s loans to Hall, Call Now, and 
their related entities and exercised substantial control over certain key operations of 
PFSI.  Pendergraft, along with Respondent Kevin W. McAleer (PWI’s CFO), was responsible for 
the improper accounting treatment and disclosure of these loans in PWI and PFSI’s filings with the 
Commission.  Respondent Thomas R. Johnson, who was a Director of PWI, and a Director and the 
President/CEO of Call Now, was a cause of PWI’s improper disclosures as he knew or should have 
known that these disclosures were materially misleading when he signed PWI’s filings with the 
Commission.  Finally, Respondent Charles W. Yancey, PFSI’s President/CEO, failed reasonably to 
supervise Pendergraft, an EVP and associated person of PFSI, who managed PFSI’s margin loans to 
Hall, Call Now, and their related entities, and directed PFSI’s recordkeeping and financial reporting 
with respect to those loans for the relevant periods. 
 
B.     Respondents 
 
       6.      Philip A. Pendergraft, age 56, is a resident of Arlington, Texas.  Pendergraft was a 
co-founder, a Director, and the Chief Executive Officer of PWI, and an Executive Vice President 
and associated person of PFSI from May 1995 to July 2012.  He held Series 3, 4, 7, 15, 24, 27, 53, 
and 63 licenses. 
 
       7.      Kevin W. McAleer, CPA, age 64, is a resident of Frisco, Texas.  McAleer was 
PWI’s Chief Financial Officer from February 2006 to March 2012.  McAleer has been a CPA since 
1976 and currently is licensed as a CPA by the Texas Board of Accountancy. 
        

                                                  

                                                3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                                                                                  
       8.      Thomas R. Johnson, age 48, is a resident of Orleans, Massachusetts.  Johnson was 
a Director of PWI from August 2003 to May 2011.  Johnson also was a Director and the 
President/CEO of Call Now, Inc. from November 2001 to approximately November 2011.  He held 
Series 7, 24, 52, and 63 licenses. 
 
       9.     Charles W. Yancey, age 59, is a resident of Colleyville, Texas.  He was PFSI’s 
President and CEO from August 2005 to February 2012.  Yancey currently is associated with a 
registered broker-dealer and holds Series 7, 24, 55, and 63 licenses. 
        
C.     Other Relevant Entities 
 
       10.    Penson Worldwide, Inc. was a Delaware corporation with its principal place of 
business in Dallas, Texas, that provided clearing, execution, and other services to the securities 
brokerage industry through its subsidiaries.  In October 2012, PWI filed Forms 25 and 15 
voluntarily withdrawing its common stock from listing on the Nasdaq Global Market and 
terminating its registration under Exchange Act Sections 12(b) and 12(g).  On January 11, 2013, 
PWI and its subsidiaries filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the 
District of Delaware. 
        
       11.    Penson Financial Services, Inc. was a North Carolina corporation with its principal 
place of business in Dallas, Texas.  PFSI was a wholly owned subsidiary of SAI Holdings, Inc. 
(“SAI”), which was a wholly owned subsidiary of PWI.  From 2009 to 2011, PFSI was the second 
largest clearing broker-dealer in the U.S. based on the number of correspondents.  PFSI was 
registered as a broker-dealer with the Commission from February 1990 to October 2012, when its 
filed Form BDW became effective.  On January 11, 2013, PFSI filed for bankruptcy along with 
PWI. 
        
       12.    Christopher J. Hall, age 56, was the Chairman and controlling shareholder of Call 
Now, Inc. for all relevant periods.  Hall was a former CFO and financial operations principal of 
Howe, Solomon & Hall, Inc., which was registered as a broker-dealer with the Commission from 
June 1983 to February 2000. 
        
       13.    Call Now, Inc. was a Nevada corporation with its principal place of business in the 
City of Selma, Texas.  Call Now’s primary business was the operation and management of the 
Retama Park horse racetrack owned by the Retama Development Corporation, a municipal 
corporation of Selma.  Call Now’s common stock was registered under Exchange Act Section 12(g) 
until August 1, 2014, when its registration was revoked by the Commission for failure to file 
periodic reports since the period ended June 30, 2011. 
 

                                                 

                                                4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                                                                                   
D.     Facts 
        
       Background 
        
       14.    PFSI was PWI’s U.S.-based and largest clearing broker-dealer subsidiary.  PFSI 
generated substantial interest income from its margin lending business—extending credit to 
correspondent broker-dealers and customers to purchase securities on margin collateralized by 
existing cash or securities in their margin accounts.  PFSI’s margin lending business was subject 
to, among other things, the margin regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
                                                                                               2
System (“Federal Reserve Board”) and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”).   
These margin regulations generally require a margin account to maintain minimum equity 
(maintenance margin) of at least 25% of the current market value of the marginable securities in 
the account.  PFSI’s internal margin policies also required a margin account to maintain a 25% 
minimum maintenance margin rate. 
        
       15.    When the margin equity of a PFSI customer’s margin account fell below the 25% 
minimum maintenance margin rate, PFSI’s systems generated a maintenance margin call.  PFSI’s 
policies required its operations personnel to demand the customer to deposit the required cash or 
marginable securities into the account within three days to cure the margin deficiency.  PFSI’s 
customer margin account agreement required the customer promptly to pay, upon demand, any 
margin indebtedness or deficiency.  If the customer failed to do so, PFSI typically liquidated 
securities or other assets from the customer’s account to redress the margin deficiency.  In some 
instances PFSI also obtained guarantees or other pledges of collateral from margin customers to 
address margin deficiencies.  PFSI generally established an allowance for doubtful accounts and 
recognized a bad debt expense when the collateral, guarantees, or other rights were insufficient to 
cover potential losses on margin loans. 
        
       Penson’s Relationship With Christopher J. Hall and Call Now, Inc. 
        
       16.    From 1999 to 2008, PFSI extended substantial margin loans to Christopher J. Hall 
and his affiliates, who primarily invested in risky, unrated municipal bonds.  By 2008, these 
margin loans were maintained in four accounts—Hall’s personal account, The Hemisphere Trust 
(“Hemisphere,” a Belize-based trust controlled by Hall), The Global Trust (“Global,” another 
Belize-based trust purportedly cross-guaranteed by Hemisphere), and Call Now’s account 
(controlled by Johnson) (collectively “Hall/Call Now” or the “Hall/Call Now accounts”).  During 
this period, Pendergraft was PFSI’s primary relationship manager for Hall/Call Now based on his 
prior business relationship with Hall. 
 

                                                 
2
       Exchange Act Section 7(c); Regulation T, 12 C.F.R. §§ 220.1    – 220.12; NASD Conduct 
Rule 2520 (“NASD Rule 2520”).  NASD Rule 2520 was amended and superseded by FINRA 
Rule 4210 effective December 2, 2010. 
 

                                                  

                                                5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                                                                                                  
       17.    One of the key investments in the Hall/Call Now accounts was in unrated municipal 
bonds issued by the Retama Development Corporation (“RDC”), which owned the Retama Park 
horse racetrack.  The RDC had issued $93.9 million in two series of bonds since 1993 to build and 
fund Retama Park—$7 million of Series A bonds, secured by Retama Park’s facilities, and $86.9 
million in Series B revenue bonds (“Retama B Bonds”) that paid interest only if Retama Park 
generated sufficient revenue.  But Retama Park had struggled financially since it opened in 1995 
and the RDC never paid interest on the Retama B Bonds.  Retama Park’s primary hope of making 
a profit was legislation in Texas that would allow expanded gambling, including slot machines, at 
Texas horse racetracks.  Since Retama Park opened, however, every bill proposing such legislation 
had failed in the Texas Legislature. 
        
       18.    Hall and his affiliates, including Call Now, owned the vast majority of the Retama 
B Bonds, held in their PFSI accounts, and other Retama Park related assets.  Hall and Call Now’s 
goal with these investments was to operate Retama Park and lobby the Texas Legislature to pass 
enhanced gambling legislation, which purportedly would cause the value of their Retama Park 
related assets to appreciate and be sold at a premium to a casino or other gaming company.  To 
finance portions of this plan, Hall and Call Now withdrew cash from their PFSI margin accounts to 
make loans to the RDC, which repeatedly needed money to avoid defaulting on its debts and to pay 
its and Retama Park’s operating expenses.  Hall and Call Now also obtained substantial additional 
margin loans from PFSI for purchasing or carrying hundreds of unrated municipal bonds and other 
securities, and Call Now also withdrew cash from its margin account partially to fund its own 
operating expenses. 
        
       19.    Also, at Penson’s request in 2003, Hall and Johnson (on behalf of Call Now) agreed 
to have Call Now purchase $6.6 million of PWI’s convertible notes by borrowing from Call Now’s 
PFSI margin account to fund the purchase.  At the time, PWI needed capital to grow its business, 
and Penson determined that a quick way to raise that capital was to have Call Now buy PWI’s 
notes with a margin loan from PFSI.  In exchange, PWI agreed to use its best efforts to appoint a 
nominee of Call Now to its Board of Directors, and Johnson thereafter was elected to PWI’s Board 
in August 2003.  In May 2006, PWI completed an initial public offering of its common stock, and 
Call Now converted its PWI notes to common stock to become PWI’s fifth largest common 
stockholder.  Call Now also became a related party of PWI due to Johnson’s dual role as a PWI 
director and a Call Now director and officer. 
 
       20.    The Hall/Call Now accounts were unusual at PFSI for at least the following 
reasons.  First, they were direct customer accounts not associated with a correspondent broker, 
which was not common at PFSI.  Second, the accounts obtained substantial margin loans to 
purchase or carry unrated municipal bonds, whereas PFSI generally made margin loans to 
customers to purchase equity securities.  Finally, Pendergraft was the primary relationship manager 
for the Hall/Call Now accounts instead of PFSI’s operations department, which was otherwise 
responsible for monitoring margin lending risk and enforcing margin requirements. 
 

                                                 

                                                6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                                                                                                       
        PFSI’s Margin Loans to Hall/Call Now Were Troubled by 2009 
 
       21.    By early 2008, the margin equity for Hall and Hemisphere’s accounts had fallen 
below FINRA’s and PFSI’s 25% minimum maintenance margin rate for all customer margin 
accounts.  Instead of issuing margin calls to Hall and Hemisphere per PFSI’s policies, however, 
PFSI lowered the minimum maintenance margin rate for the unrated municipal bonds in Hall and 
Hemisphere’s accounts from 25% to 7% (which corresponds to FINRA’s minimum maintenance 
margin rate for municipal bonds) so that, in effect, no margin call would be issued to the 
           3
customers.  
 
       22.     But during 2008, Hall and Hemisphere’s unrated municipal bonds had further 
declined in value, causing their margin equity to fall below the 7% minimum maintenance margin 
rate.  Pendergraft, throughout 2008, had demanded that Hall deposit additional collateral into Hall 
and Hemisphere’s accounts, but Hall failed to deposit sufficient collateral to satisfy the accounts’ 
margin deficiency.  Although FINRA’s margin rules and PFSI’s policies required PFSI to obtain 
the required margin from Hall and Hemisphere within fifteen business days of the date the margin 
                                                                                        4
deficiency occurred, PFSI could not do so because Hall did not have sufficient assets.      PFSI   also 
did not request FINRA   to grant it additional time to obtain the required margin.  PFSI   decided not 
to liquidate the mostly unrated municipal bonds in Hall and Hemisphere’s accounts because they 
could not be sold without locking in substantial losses for PFSI.  Because the accounts’ margin 
equity was below the minimum maintenance margin rate, PFSI was required to deduct Hall and 
Hemisphere’s margin deficiency from its net capital in accordance with the Commission’s net 
            5
capital rule.   By December 31, 2008, PFSI   had  deduct  ed  $14.2 million, as “other deductions 
and/or charges” from its net capital for Hall and Hemisphere’s margin deficiency. 
        

                                                 
3
       NASD Rule 2520(e)(2)(B) required a minimum maintenance margin rate of 7% of the 
current market value of any positions in exempted securities, including municipal bonds.  N     ASD 
Rule 2520(f)(1) also required that “[s]ubstantial additional margin must be required in all cases 
where the securities carried in ‘long’ or ‘short’ positions are subject to unusually rapid or violent 
changes in value, or do not have an active market on a national securities exchange, or where the 
amount carried is such that the position(s) cannot be liquidated promptly.”  PFSI’s own policies 
required a minimum maintenance margin rate of the greater of 15% of the current market value, 
or 7% of face value, for investment grade municipal bonds.  
 
4
       NASD Rule 2520(f)(6) required that “[t]he amount of margin or ‘mark to market’ 
required by any provision of this Rule shall be obtained as promptly as possible and in any event 
within fifteen days from the date such deficiency occurred, unless [the NASD or FINRA] has 
specifically granted the member additional time.”  PFSI’s policies also stated that if a margin 
account’s equity fell below the 25% maintenance rate, PFSI would “liquidate enough securities 
to bring the account back to a 25% maintenance rate.” 
 
5
       See Exchange Act Rule 15c3-1(c)(2). 

                                                    

                                                  7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

                                                                                                  
       23.    By early 2009, PFSI’s senior executives, including Yancey, became aware of 
irregularities with PFSI’s margin loans to the Hall/Call Now accounts.  Hall and Hemisphere’s 
accounts repeatedly appeared on PFSI’s exception and risk management reports that tracked large 
margin debts, outstanding margin calls, or negative equity (unsecured loan balances).  Many PFSI 
senior executives were aware that the Hall/Call Now accounts held mostly unrated municipal 
bonds, which were distressed or in default, and PFSI generally did not extend margin loans on such 
collateral.  The executives also knew that PFSI had taken net capital charges for Hall and 
Hemisphere’s margin deficiency.  But all of PFSI’s executives, including Yancey, deferred to 
Pendergraft on the issues raised by these accounts.  Pendergraft instructed PFSI executives, 
including Yancey, not to get involved with the Hall/Call Now accounts because he was managing 
them personally in consultation with certain members of PWI’s Board.  Pendergraft, as PFSI’s co-
founder and EVP, exercised substantial control over certain key PFSI operations, including 
computations of PFSI’s net capital and management of the Hall/Call Now accounts.  PFSI’s senior 
executives generally did not challenge Pendergraft’s authority or actions over those matters. 
        
       24.    Of all the PFSI executives, only Yancey attempted to address the risks posed by 
PFSI’s margin loans to Hall and Hemisphere.  Other PFSI executives looked to Yancey to address 
those risks.  Although Yancey reported to Pendergraft in Pendergraft’s capacity as CEO of PWI, 
Yancey supervised Pendergraft in Pendergraft’s capacity as an EVP and associated person of PFSI.  
By early 2009, Yancey became more aware of the Hall/Call Now accounts as Hall and 
Hemisphere’s accounts became more distressed.  Yancey was aware that the Hall/Call Now loan 
balances continued to increase, Hall and Hemisphere’s accounts continued to appear on PFSI’s 
negative equity reports, and PFSI deducted from its net capital increasing amounts of those 
accounts’ margin deficiencies.  Yancey told Pendergraft that PFSI should stop extending loans to 
the Hall/Call Now accounts and should liquidate their collateral.  Yancey also denied requests for 
additional loans to those accounts.  But Pendergraft rebuffed Yancey’s efforts.  Yancey routinely 
sought assurances from Pendergraft that the accounts were being properly managed.  Pendergraft 
assured Yancey on numerous occasions that the accounts’ collateral had substantial value and 
would recover in the future, and that Yancey should not worry about the accounts and instead 
focus on growing PFSI’s business.  Though Yancey repeatedly voiced his concerns about the loans 
to Pendergraft thereafter, Yancey did not take additional measures that reasonably would be 
expected to address Pendergraft’s management of the Hall/Call Now accounts. 
        
       25.    By early 2009, PFSI’s operations personnel effectively ceased monitoring the 
Hall/Call Now accounts because of Pendergraft’s control over them.  Pendergraft also instructed 
PFSI’s margins department to “abate” or close without any action any margin calls generated by 
PFSI’s systems for the Hall/Call Now accounts as he would handle margin issues personally with 
Hall and Call Now. 
        
       Penson Makes Another Loan to Hall in 2009 to Support His Account 
        
       26.    By March 2009, Hall’s personal account had a negative equity balance of $9 
million.  Hall also had unmet margin calls in the amount of $15.8 million.  At Pendergraft’s 
demand, Hall agreed to pledge to Penson his controlling interest of 1.5 million restricted shares of 

                                                 

                                                8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

                                                                                                      
Call Now as additional collateral, but told Pendergraft that he needed to borrow $3.7 million to pay 
off purportedly existing liens on the shares.  Pendergraft agreed to have Penson lend Hall the 
money to do so. 
        
       27.    In exchange for Hall’s pledge of 1.5 million Call Now shares to Penson, 
Pendergraft, after discussions with certain PWI directors and officers, arranged for a loan to Hall 
from SAI (PWI’s subsidiary that owned PFSI) via promissory notes and stock pledge agreements 
effective June 2009 (“SAI loan”).  The SAI loan to Hall was payable on demand, like a margin 
loan, and charged an interest rate of 7.45%, which PFSI had charged on margin loans.  Pendergraft 
directed PFSI to wire the loan proceeds from PFSI’s bank accounts to a trust account of Hall’s 
lawyer in Florida, per Hall’s wiring instructions.  After the PFSI wires were received by the trust 
account, Hall delivered the Call Now stock certificates to PFSI.  PFSI then deposited the shares 
into Hall’s margin account, thereby reversing the account’s negative balance of $9 million to a 
positive balance by July 2009. 
 
       28.    This SAI loan to Hall was made in contravention of Regulation T, which prohibits 
the withdrawal of cash from any margin account that creates or increases a margin deficiency, and 
PFSI’s own policies, which prohibited the withdrawal of any cash from a margin account that was 
                                     6
subject to a maintenance margin call.    The SAI loan was effectively a margin loan as it was a 
demand loan that charged PFSI’s margin loan interest rate, funded by PFSI, and collateralized by 
Hall’s Call Now shares.  Although the value of Hall’s Call Now shares deposited into his PFSI 
margin account supposedly restored the account to a positive balance, the shares were non-
marginable, and had no effect on his account’s existing margin deficiency.  Because the SAI loan 
was effectively a margin loan, however, the loan actually had the effect of increasing Hall’s 
account’s margin deficiency by $3.7 million.  Most PFSI executives, including Yancey, were not 
aware of the SAI loan when it was made. 
        
       29.    By June 2009, Penson’s loans to Hall/Call Now reached $89 million as unpaid loan 
interest continued to accrue and Call Now withdrew cash from its margin account to fund Retama 
Park and its own operating expenses, including portions of Hall and Johnson’s Call Now salaries.  
Hall and Hemisphere’s margin accounts continued to be subject to daily margin calls that Hall had 
failed to meet since 2008.  Though Penson and Hall had hoped that the 2009 session of the Texas 
Legislature (which meets every odd-numbered year) would result in enhanced gambling 
legislation, bills proposing such legislation failed to reach a floor vote before the session adjourned 
in June 2009. 
        

                                                 
6
       Regulation T, 12 C.F.R. § 220.4(e)(1)(ii), permits the withdrawal of cash or securities 
from an account except if “[t]he withdrawal, together with other transactions, deposits, and 
withdrawals on the same day, would create or increase a margin deficiency.” 

                                                   

                                                  9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

                                                                                                   
       FINRA Instructs PFSI to Take a 100% Haircut to Net Capital for the Retama B Bonds 
 
       30.    During the summer of 2009, FINRA’s exam staff conducted a cycle examination of 
PFSI, and found that PFSI failed to comply with FINRA’s margin rules because the Retama B 
Bonds owned by Hall/Call Now were not marginable securities.  The FINRA exam staff reached 
this conclusion because the Retama B Bonds were unrated, did not have an active market, and had 
deferred on interest payments.  After discussions with PFSI’s executives and outside counsel, the 
FINRA exam staff instructed PFSI to apply a 100% margin maintenance rate or “haircut” to its net 
capital for the value of the bonds, issue margin calls to the account holders, and submit a plan of 
liquidation of the collateral.  The FINRA exam staff reviewed these conclusions in an exit meeting 
with all senior PFSI executives in October 2009. 
 
       31.    PFSI eventually agreed to treat the bonds as non-marginable, and applied a 100% 
haircut for their value, resulting in an additional $20 million deduction to PFSI’s net capital.  This 
was on top of the nearly $20 million in net capital charges PFSI was already taking for Hall and 
Hemisphere’s margin deficiency.  By September 30, 2009, PFSI had deducted approximately $40 
million from its net capital for the Hall/Call Now accounts’ margin deficiency, and reported net 
capital of $92 million.  Though PFSI did not violate minimum net capital requirements, its margin 
loans to the Hall/Call Now accounts had substantially reduced its net capital. 
        
       32.    On September 24, 2009, pursuant to FINRA’s instructions, PFSI also sent 
maintenance margin call letters to Hemisphere, Global, and Call Now.  The letters stated that, 
based on FINRA’s determination that the Retama B Bonds in their accounts were not marginable, 
Hemisphere, Global, and Call Now needed to deposit in their accounts additional margin in the 
amounts of $8.25 million, $2.7 million, and $5.3 million, respectively, by September 30, 2009.  
Hemisphere, Global, and Call Now failed to deposit any margin in response to these margin calls. 
 
       Penson “Restructures” Hall and Call Now’s Debts to Support Their Accounts 
 
       33.    By yearend 2009, Penson’s loans to the Hall/Call Now accounts totaled $91 million 
and became severely distressed due to further declines in collateral value and unpaid interest.  Hall 
and Hemisphere’s accounts had become unsecured by more than $26 million.  Margin calls on all 
four of the Hall/Call Now accounts remained unpaid for months as the customers lacked “the 
wherewithal” to pay.  PFSI’s net capital charges for those unpaid margin calls had soared to $56 
million, compared with PFSI’s reported net capital of $95 million at yearend 2009.  Penson did not 
liquidate or foreclose on the accounts’ illiquid collateral because liquidation would result in 
significant losses to Penson, and foreclosure would result in the impractical outcome of Penson 
controlling Call Now and Retama Park’s operations.  Penson concluded that the only viable option 
was to restructure Hall/Call Now’s debts to obtain as much collateral as possible. 
 
       34.    In February 2010, Pendergraft, after months of negotiations with Hall and Johnson 
(on behalf of Call Now), devised a complex transaction (“restructuring transaction”) involving 
Penson, Hall, and Call Now.  The purpose of the transaction was to obtain as much collateral as 
possible to reduce the unsecured portion of Hall’s margin loan, which was $15.7 million at yearend 

                                                  

                                                10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

                                                                                                   
2009.  Because Call Now’s collateral (which included PWI stock) was relatively more liquid than 
Hall’s, Penson demanded that Call Now transfer approximately $10 million in additional equity in 
cash and other assets to Hall by buying Hall’s illiquid collateral, including certain unrated 
municipal bonds and an additional 721,463 Call Now shares.   
        
       35.    Because Call Now did not have enough cash or liquid assets to finance this 
transaction, Penson again authorized the use of PFSI’s capital, like the SAI loan, to make an 
improper loan to Call Now.  PWI “converted” Call Now’s $13.9 million outstanding margin loan 
at PFSI into a two-year promissory note in favor of PWI, effectively transferring the debt from Call 
Now’s margin account and PFSI’s books to PWI.  This promissory note, which was collateralized 
in part by all of the securities in Call Now’s margin account, ostensibly reset Call Now’s margin 
debt to zero and allowed it to borrow on margin again from its PFSI margin account.  Then, against 
part of the same collateral securing Call Now’s promissory note, Pendergraft directed PFSI to 
extend another $5.5 million in margin loans to Call Now so that it could use those proceeds to buy 
Hall’s illiquid collateral.  While this transaction increased the equity in Hall’s account by 
approximately $10 million, Call Now’s overall indebtedness to Penson also increased from $13.9 
million to $19.4 million as a result of this transaction. 
        
       36.    Indirectly related to this transaction, Pendergraft directed PFSI to extend another 
$500,000 margin loan to Call Now and another $1 million margin loan to Hall in February and 
April 2010, respectively, when Call Now and Hall’s accounts were subject to unmet margin calls.  
Call Now used the $500,000 to fund its investment and operating expenses for 2010, including 
portions of Hall’s and Johnson’s $200,000 annual Call Now salaries.  Hall loaned the $1 million to 
the RDC for its and Retama Park’s operating expenses. 
        
       37.    These extensions of credit, like the SAI loan, were in contravention of Regulation T 
and PFSI’s policies. 
 
       FINRA Finds That PFSI Lacked Sufficient Internal Controls on the Hall/Call Now Loans 
        
       38.    In the summer of 2010, the FINRA exam staff conducted a cycle examination of 
PFSI.  The FINRA exam staff concluded that PFSI did not have sufficient controls over its 
extension of credit to the Hall/Call Now accounts because the loans continued to be collateralized 
by unrated municipal bonds lacking an active market.  The FINRA exam staff instructed PFSI to 
take a further $15.4 million deduction to its net capital for additional concentrated positions of 
unrated municipal bonds collateralizing the loans.  The FINRA exam staff also concluded that 
Pendergraft’s control over the Hall/Call Now accounts resulted in PFSI’s failure to consider or 
identify risk factors such as the marketability and concentration of the collateral, liquidity risk, and 
the customers’ creditworthiness.  By not adequately considering these risk factors, the FINRA 
exam staff concluded, PFSI failed to supervise these credit extensions and materially impaired its 
net capital.  The FINRA exam staff reviewed these conclusions at an exit meeting with all senior 
PFSI executives in October 2010. 
 

                                                  

                                                11 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

                                                                                                        
       39.    By yearend 2010, Yancey knew or had reason to know that Pendergraft approved 
loans to Hall/Call Now in 2009 and 2010 that contravened Regulation T and PFSI’s own policies 
and internal controls.  Yancey knew that Pendergraft directed PFSI’s associated persons not to 
record losses on the Hall/Call Now loans in PFSI’s books and records and financial statements 
because Pendergraft had assured Yancey that he and other PWI executives had determined that the 
loans were collectable, following discussions with PWI’s Board and auditor.  But Yancey told 
Pendergraft that he doubted whether the Hall/Call Now loans were fully collectable because the 
loan balances continued to grow from 2009 to 2010, and because PFSI continued to take large 
deductions to its net capital for the Hall/Call Now loans since September 2009.  Although Yancey 
continued to voice concerns to Pendergraft about extending additional credit to Hall/Call Now and 
advocated to liquidate their collateral to minimize losses for PFSI, Yancey failed to take additional 
measures that reasonably would be expected to prevent and detect Pendergraft’s actions resulting 
in PFSI extending credit in contravention of Regulation T, and resulting in PFSI’s failure to 
accurately record losses in its ledgers and to file its financial statements in conformity with GAAP. 
 
       Penson’s Improper Accounting of the Hall/Call Now Loans in its 2009 Yearend Filings 
 
       40.    PWI and PFSI were required under GAAP to evaluate whether the Hall/Call Now 
loans were impaired.  Impairment is required to be recognized when information available before 
the financial statements are issued indicate that it is “probable” that the creditor will be unable to 
collect all amounts due, including principal and interest, in accordance with the loan’s contractual 
      7
terms.    PWI and PFSI were also required, under GAAP,     to measure and  recognize  in their 
financial statements the amount of impairment   losses   associated with such loans, and to disclose 
the amount of the impaired loans  and loans that were more than ninety days past due and still 
         8
accruing.   These financial statements were included in PWI’s Forms 10-K and 10-Q, and PFSI’s 
annual audited reports filed with the Commission. 
 
       41.    PWI and PFSI’s accounting policies claimed that they “did not lend money to 
customers or correspondents except on a fully collateralized basis.”  Those policies also required 
PWI and PFSI to record a bad debt expense and an allowance for doubtful accounts if a margin 
customer’s collateral value, guarantees, or other rights granted were insufficient to cover any 
potential losses. 
 
       42.    At yearend 2009, Hall/Call Now collectively owed Penson $91 million, and were 
subject to margin calls for $56 million.  Hall, Hemisphere, Global, and Call Now were required 
under their PFSI customer margin account agreements promptly to pay any indebtedness or 
deficiency upon demand from PFSI.  Each of these four customers failed to meet PFSI’s demands 
for payment by September 30, 2009. 

                                                 
7
       Financial Accounting Standards Board      Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 
Topic 310-10-35-16. 
 
8
       ASC 310   - 10 - 35 - 22 & 310- 10 - 50 - 7. 

                                                    

                                                   12 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

                                                                                                  
        
       43.    Nonetheless, PWI and PFSI, at Pendergraft and McAleer’s direction, concluded 
that the Hall/Call Now loans were fully collectable and not impaired because they expected, 
without adequate basis, that (a) the real estate market would recover in 2010, or (b) the Texas 
Legislature likely would pass enhanced gambling legislation in 2011, either of which would cause 
the Hall/Call Now accounts’ collateral value to improve and, at some point in the future, allow the 
customers to pay back their loans.  For the same reasons, PWI and PFSI concluded that loss 
recognition and the establishment of an allowance for doubtful accounts for the Hall/Call Now 
loans was not necessary.  PWI’s Audit Committee and auditor concurred with these conclusions. 
        
       44.    But these conclusions did not comply with GAAP.  Because the Hall/Call Now 
accounts failed to meet their outstanding margin calls upon demand, it was at least probable at 
yearend 2009 that PWI and PFSI would be unable to collect all amounts due in accordance with 
the contractual terms of the margin loans.  Neither the possible recovery of the real estate market, 
the possible enactment of gambling legislation, nor the additional collateral pledged in the 
restructuring transaction affected PWI and PFSI’s inability to collect all amounts when due from 
the customers at yearend 2009.  Further, PWI and PFSI failed to record a bad debt expense for the 
Hall/Call Now loans, or even to disclose that the loans were past due for more than ninety days and 
still accruing. 
 
       45.    As a result, PWI and PFSI failed to properly identify the loans to Hall/Call Now as 
impaired, and to measure and recognize the amount of impairment in conformity with GAAP.  Had 
PWI and PFSI properly identified the loans as impaired and measured the amount of impairment 
according to their own internal policies, they would have recorded a loss in the amount of 
approximately $19 million for the period ended December 31, 2009.  Such a loss would have been 
material to PWI and PFSI’s net income of $16 million and $35.3 million, respectively, for the same 
period.  By failing to recognize this impairment charge, PWI and PFSI’s financial statements, 
included in PWI’s 2009 Form 10-K and PFSI’s 2009 annual audited report, were not presented in 
conformity with GAAP, and were materially misstated and inaccurate for the period ended 
December 31, 2009.  Because PWI’s 2009 Form 10-K was incorporated by reference in the 
offering memorandum for PWI’s April 2010 unregistered offering of $200 million in Senior 
Second Lien Secured Notes Due 2017 (“2010 Offering Memorandum”), PWI’s 2010 Offering 
Memorandum also was materially misstated. 
        
       Penson’s Misleading Related Party Disclosures in Yearend 2009 Filings 
 
       46.    Under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K, PWI was required to disclose any transaction 
in which PWI was a participant and the amount involved exceeded $120,000, and in which any 
related person of PWI had a direct or indirect material interest.  Item 404(a) also required PWI to 
disclose any other information regarding the transaction or the related person in the context of the 
transaction that is material to investors in light of the circumstances of the particular transaction.  
Similarly, GAAP required PWI and PFSI to disclose material related party transactions, including 
the nature of the relationship involved, a description of the transactions, and such other information 

                                                 

                                                13 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

                                                                                                    
deemed necessary to an understanding of the effects of the transactions on their financial 
           9
statements. 
        
       47.    PWI’s 2009 Form 10-K included the following disclosure in a note to the financial 
statements about the February 2010 Hall/Call Now restructuring transaction: 
        
       Over the past several years, the Company has, through PFSI, its U.S. securities clearing 
       broker-dealer subsidiary, extended margin credit to Call Now, among other of the 
       Company’s related parties.  Such credit has been extended in the ordinary course of 
       business, on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those 
       prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with unaffiliated third parties and had not 
       involved more than normal risk of collectability or presented other unfavorable features. 
        
               The Company’s management recently determined that certain municipal bonds 
       underlying Call Now’s margin position had suffered reduced liquidity, and began working 
       with Call Now to restructure the margin loan.  As part of the restructuring, on February 25, 
       2010, Call Now converted $[13,922,000] of its outstanding margin loan into a Promissory 
       Note in favor of the Company accumulating interest at a rate of 10% per year. The 
       Company’s management currently believes that all amounts due under the Promissory Note 
       will be collected pursuant to the terms of the Promissory Note. . . .  Mr. Thomas Johnson 
       has no interest in the Call Now margin account or the Promissory Note, except to the extent 
       of his approximately 3.2% ownership interest in Call Now. Mr. Johnson abstained from 
       voting on all matters on behalf of the Company. 
        
       48.    This disclosure did not comply with GAAP and was materially misleading in 
numerous ways.  First, it failed to disclose that the true purpose of the transaction was to obtain as 
much collateral as possible for Hall’s unsecured debt.  Second, it failed to disclose that Call Now 
had failed to pay margin calls issued by PFSI because it determined, at FINRA’s instruction, that 
the Retama B Bonds held by Call Now were not marginable collateral.  Third, the loans to Call 
Now were not made in the ordinary course—Call Now received favorable treatment from Penson 
because it was a related party.  Fourth, it omitted the fact that Penson premised collectability of the 
loan on speculation as to the recovery of the real estate market and gambling legislation.  Finally, it 
omitted the fact that Johnson, on behalf of Call Now, had obtained loans from PFSI to Call Now to 
fund its operating expenses, including portions of his and Hall’s annual $200,000 salaries. 
 
       49.    These materially misleading disclosures were also substantially included in PFSI’s 
2009 annual audited report, and PWI’s 2010 definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, which 
was used to solicit votes to reelect Pendergraft and Johnson as PWI Directors through 2013.  The 
disclosures also were incorporated by reference in PWI’s April 2010 Offering Memorandum.  As a 
result, PFSI’s 2009 annual audited report, and PWI’s 2010 Schedule 14A and April 2010 Offering 
Memorandum also contained materially misleading disclosures and were inaccurate. 

                                                 
9
       ASC 850   - 10 - 50.  

                                                  

                                                 14 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

                                                                                                   
        
       Penson’s Accounting and Disclosure Errors in 2010 
        
       50.    In PWI’s quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q for the periods ended from March 31, 
2010 to September 30, 2010, PWI continued to fail to identify the Hall/Call Now loans as impaired 
and to measure and recognize impairment losses on those loans.  PWI also continued to fail to 
disclose the amount of loans over ninety days past due and still accruing.  As a result, PWI’s 
quarterly financial statements for these periods were not presented in conformity with GAAP and 
were materially misstated. 
        
       51.    By yearend 2010, Penson’s loans to Hall/Call Now had reached $95 million, and 
the customers continued to fail to meet outstanding margin calls.  The real estate market did not 
recover in 2010 to improve the collateral value underlying the loans.  The possibility of gambling 
legislation in 2011 was Penson’s main hope for collecting on the loans. 
        
       52.    Penson placed Hall and Hemisphere’s loans on nonaccrual status and ceased to 
accrue interest on them beginning in March 2010.  Effective January 1, 2011, Penson placed all of 
the Hall/Call Now loans on nonaccrual status and ceased to accrue interest on them, indicating that 
Penson no longer believed that it would collect all amounts due under the terms of the loan 
agreements with these customers. 
        
       53.    In its 2010 Form 10-K, PWI disclosed that it had $97.4 million in loans or 
receivables “primarily from customers and correspondents” for which interest income was 
recorded when received.  PWI did not disclose that the vast majority of these receivables were the 
$95 million in loans to Hall/Call Now, who were direct customers of PFSI not introduced through 
a correspondent broker-dealer.  Even though Penson ceased to accrue interest on the Hall/Call Now 
loans, Penson continued to treat the loans as fully collectable.  PFSI’s 2010 annual audited report 
did not make any disclosures about these loans being placed on nonaccrual status. 
        
       54.    As a result, PWI and PFSI failed to properly identify the loans to Hall/Call Now as 
impaired, and to measure and recognize the amount of impairment of the loans as required by 
GAAP.  Had PWI and PFSI properly identified the loans as being impaired and measured the 
amount of impairment according to their own internal policies, they would have recorded 
cumulative losses of at least $18 million for the period ended December 31, 2010.  This amount 
would have been material to both PWI’s reported net loss of $19.8 million and PFSI’s reported net 
income of $23.6 million for the same period.  By failing properly to account for and adequately to 
disclose the nature of the Hall/Call Now loans, PWI and PFSI’s financial statements, included in 
PWI’s 2010 Form 10-K and PFSI’s 2010 annual audited report, were not presented in conformity 
with GAAP and were materially misstated and inaccurate for the period ended December 31, 2010. 
 
       55.    PWI’s 2010 Form 10-K, PWI’s 2011 definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, 
and PFSI’s 2010 annual audited report contained essentially the same related party disclosure 
about the Call Now loan as in their respective 2009 Form 10-K, 2010 Schedule 14A, and 2009 
annual audited report.  For the reasons described above in connection with the disclosures in PWI’s 

                                                  

                                                15 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

                                                                                                  
2009 Form 10-K, PWI’s 2010 Form 10-K and Schedule 14A, and PFSI’s 2010 annual audited 
report were materially misleading and inaccurate. 
 
       PWI’s Accounting Errors in its 2011 Quarterly Reports 
        
       56.    In its Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2011, PWI again failed to identify 
and measure any impairment on the loans to Hall/Call Now as required by GAAP.  Had PWI done 
so, it would have recorded cumulative losses totaling at least $20 million for the period. 
        
       57.    But PWI did, in its Form 10-Q, disclose that it had approximately $97 million in 
“Nonaccrual Receivables” —almost entirely the Hall/Call Now loans—of which approximately 
$43 million were collateralized by RDC bonds and related assets.  The Form 10-Q further 
disclosed that, should expanded gambling legislation not be enacted in 2011, it is possible that the 
collateral underlying the receivables might be impaired, resulting in a write down of a portion of 
the receivables that could be material in amount.  The Form 10-Q, however, failed to disclose the 
nature of the remaining $54 million in Nonaccrual Receivables and whether they were adequately 
collateralized.  Nevertheless, three days after this Form 10-Q was filed, PWI’s stock price had 
dropped by approximately 40%, and Johnson resigned as a Director of PWI. 
        
       58.    Three months later, in its Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2011, PWI 
finally disclosed that the carrying value of the Nonaccrual Receivables collateralized by the RDC 
bonds and related assets were not fully collectable and recorded an impairment charge of $43 
million—PWI’s biggest losses ever.  However, PWI should have recognized in prior periods at 
least $20 million of impairment losses on the Hall/Call Now loans.  PWI disclosed that one factor 
underlying the decision to record an impairment charge was the Texas Legislature’s adjournment 
in June 2011 without passing enhanced gambling legislation.  PWI also began to foreclose on 
certain collateral underlying the Hall/Call Now accounts.  PWI ultimately recorded approximately 
$60 million in losses on these loans by the first quarter of 2012. 
        
       59.    Pendergraft, McAleer, and Johnson each signed PWI’s annual reports on Forms 10-
K for the periods ended December 31, 2009, and December 31, 2010.  Pendergraft and McAleer 
also signed PWI’s quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q for the periods ended from March 31, 2010 to 
June 30, 2011, and certified each periodic report identified above. 
 
       Penson’s Demise  
 
       60.    In PWI’s August 5, 2011 earnings conference call, Pendergraft admitted that the 
company had made mistakes in extending credit to Hall/Call Now:  “Our mistake—really a couple 
of mistakes here—one was not bringing these accounts into line with our new policies and 
procedures [on credit extension].  And second—was not just going out and liquidating the accounts 
when we [began] to see illiquidity in the underlying assets.” 
 
       61.    PWI’s disclosures and impairment of the loans to Hall/Call Now in 2011 
contributed to a series of events that ultimately led to Penson’s demise in 2013.  In 2011, PWI’s 

                                                 

                                                16 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

                                                                                                     
clearing businesses were already experiencing lower trading commissions and interest revenues 
due to the weak global economy and market volatility.  The losses on the loans to Hall/Call Now in 
2011 seriously undermined confidence in PWI’s ability to operate as a going concern.  PWI’s 
creditors restricted credit lines that were vital to its operations, correspondents and customers 
ceased doing business with PFSI, and investors sold millions of PWI shares at depressed prices.  
These events caused a liquidity crisis that prohibited PWI from servicing or restructuring more 
than $260 million in outstanding debts.  As a result, PWI was forced to sell its clearing broker-
dealer subsidiaries, including PFSI’s clearing business, and file for bankruptcy protection in 2013. 
 
E.     Violations 
 
       62.    Securities Act Section 17(a)(2) prohibits any person from obtaining money or 
property in the offer or sale of securities by means of any untrue statement of a material fact or any 
omission to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in light of the 
circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  Securities Act Section 17(a)(3) 
prohibits any person from engaging in any transaction, practice, or course of business which 
operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon the purchaser in the offer or sale of securities. 
        
       63.    Exchange Act Section 7(c) prohibits a broker or dealer, directly or indirectly, from 
extending or maintaining credit or arranging for the extension or maintenance of credit to or for 
any customer in violation of rules and regulations prescribed by the Federal Reserve Board.  
Regulation T, prescribed under Section 7(c), prohibits, among other things, the withdrawal of cash 
or securities from a margin account that creates or increases a margin deficiency.  12 C.F.R. § 
220.4(e)(1)(ii). 
        
       64.    Exchange Act Section 13(a) and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 require every issuer of a 
security registered pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12 to file with the Commission annual and 
quarterly reports as the Commission may require.  Rule 13a-14 mandates, among other things, that 
an issuer’s principal executive and financial officers certify each periodic report.  Rule 12b-20 
requires that the issuer’s filings contain such further material information as may be necessary to 
make the required statements, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not 
misleading. 
         
       65.    Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(A) requires issuers to make and keep books, 
records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their transactions 
and dispositions of their assets.  Section 13(b)(2)(B) requires issuers to devise and maintain a 
system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that, among 
other things, transactions are recorded to permit the preparation of financial statements in 
conformity with GAAP.  Section 13(b)(5) prohibits any person from knowingly circumventing or 
knowingly failing to implement a system of internal accounting controls, and from knowingly 
falsifying any book, record, or account under Section 13(b)(2).  Rule 13b2-1 prohibits any person 
from directly or indirectly falsifying or causing to be falsified any book, record or account subject 
to Section 13(b)(2)(A). 
        

                                                   

                                                 17 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

                                                                                                      
       66.    Exchange Act Section 14(a) requires issuers that solicit any proxy or consent or 
authorization in connection with any security registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange 
Act (other than an exempted security) to comply with such rules as the Commission may 
promulgate.  Rule 14a-9 prohibits the use of proxy statements containing materially false or 
misleading statements or materially misleading omissions. 
 
       67.    Exchange Act Section 15(b)(4)(E) requires a broker or dealer reasonably to 
supervise, with a view to preventing violations of the federal securities laws, another person who 
commits such violation, if such other person is subject to its supervision.  Exchange Act 15(b)(6) 
incorporates by reference Section 15(b)(4)(E) and allows for the imposition of sanctions against 
persons associated with a broker or dealer for failing reasonably to supervise. 
        
       68.    Exchange Act Section 17(a) requires each broker-dealer to make and keep records 
and make and disseminate such reports as the Commission may prescribe.  Rule 17a-3(a)(2) 
requires broker-dealers to maintain ledgers reflecting assets and liabilities, income and expense and 
capital accounts.  Exchange Act Section 17(e) and Rule 17a-5 require broker-dealers to file with 
the Commission annual audited reports containing, among other things, financial statements 
prepared in conformity with GAAP.  The records and reports required by these rules must be 
accurate. 
 
       69.    Exchange Act Section 4C(a)(3) and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules 
of Practice provide, in pertinent part, that “[t]he Commission may censure a person or deny, 
temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before it in any way to any 
person who is found . . . [t]o have willfully violated . . . any provision of the Federal securities laws 
or the rules and regulations thereunder.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(1)(iii). 
        
                                                                                 10
       70.    As a result of the conduct described above, Pendergraft willfully    violated 
Securities Act Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3), Exchange Act Section   13(b)(5), and  Exchange Act 
Rules 13a -14 and 13b2 -1 .  Pendergraft also willfully aided and abetted and caused PWI’s 
violations of Exchange Act Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B), and 14(a), and Rules 12b-20, 
13a-1,13a-13, and 14a-9.  Pendergraft also willfully aided and abetted and caused PFSI’s violations 
of Exchange Act Sections 7(c), 17(a), and 17(e), Exchange Act Rules 17a-3(a)(2) and 17a-5, and 
Regulation T. 
        

                                                 
10
       A willful violation of the securities laws means merely “‘that the person charged with the 
duty knows what he is doing.’” Wonsover v. S.E.C., 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000) (quoting 
Hughes v. S.E.C., 174 F.2d 969, 977 (D.C. Cir. 1949)).  There is no requirement that the actor 
“‘also be aware that he is violating one of the Rules or Acts.”  Id. (quoting Gearhart & Otis, Inc. 
v. S.E.C., 348 F.2d 798, 803 (D.C. Cir. 1965)). 
 

                                                   

                                                  18 
---------------------Page 19---------------------

                                                                                                      
                                                                              11
       71.    As a result of the conduct described above, McAleer willfully      violated Exchange 
Act Sec tion 13(b)(5), and Rules 13a- 14 and 13b2 - 1  within the meaning of Section 4C(a)(3) and 
Rule 102(e)(1)(iii).  McAleer also caused PWI’s violations of Exchange Act Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B), and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13. 
        
       72.    As a result of the conduct described above, Johnson caused PWI’s violations of 
Exchange Act Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 14(a), and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 14a-9. 
        
       73.    As a result of the conduct described above, Yancey failed reasonably to supervise 
Pendergraft, an associated person of PFSI, within the meaning of Exchange Act Section 15(b)(6), 
incorporating by reference Section 15(b)(4)(E), with a view to preventing and detecting 
Pendergraft’s aiding and abetting and causing PFSI’s violations of Exchange Act Sections 7(c), 
17(a), and 17(e), Exchange Act Rules 17a-3(a)(2) and 17a-5, and Regulation T. 
                                                   
F.     Undertakings 
 
       74.    Respondents Pendergraft, McAleer, Johnson, and Yancey have undertaken to 
cooperate fully with the Commission in any and all investigations, litigation, administrative or other 
proceedings commenced by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party relating to or 
arising from the matters described in the Order.  In connection with such investigations, litigation, 
administrative or other proceedings, Respondents agree to the following: (i) to produce, without 
service of a notice or subpoena, any and all documents and other materials and information as 
reasonably requested by the Commission; (ii) to appear and testify without service of a notice or 
subpoena in such investigations, interviews, depositions, hearings and trials, at such times and 
places as reasonably requested by the Commission; and (iii) to respond promptly to all inquiries 
from the Commission.  Respondent Yancey also has undertaken to provide to the Commission, 
within fifteen (15) days after the end of the six-month suspension period described below, an 
affidavit that he has complied fully with the sanctions applicable to him described in Section IV 
below. 
 
                                               IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate, in the public interest to 
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
 
        Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Sections 4C, 15(b), and 21C of 
the Exchange Act, Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 

                                                 
11
       See id. 

                                                   

                                                  19 
---------------------Page 20---------------------

                                                                                                     
A.     Philip A. Pendergraft 
        
       1.      Respondent Pendergraft shall cease and desist from committing or causing any 
violations and any future violations of Securities Act Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3), and Exchange 
Act Sections 7(c), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B), 13(b)(5), 14(a), 17(a), and 17(e), Exchange Act 
Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-13, 13a-14, 13b2-1, 14a-9, 17a-3(a)(2), and 17a-5, and Regulation T. 
 
       2.      Pendergraft be, and hereby is: 
        
               a.      barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, 
       municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized 
       statistical rating organization; 
                
               b.      prohibited from serving or acting as an employee, officer, director, member 
       of an advisory board, investment adviser or depositor of, or principal underwriter for, a 
       registered investment company or affiliated person of such investment adviser, depositor, or 
       principal underwriter; and 
                
               c.      barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting 
       as a promoter, finder, consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a 
       broker, dealer or issuer for purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or 
       inducing or attempting to induce the purchase or sale of any penny stock. 
        
       3.      Any reapplication for association by Pendergraft will be subject to the applicable 
laws and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number 
of factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following:  (a) any 
disgorgement ordered against Pendergraft, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially 
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served 
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a 
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order; 
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct 
that served as the basis for the Commission order. 
        
      4.       Pendergraft shall pay a civil money penalty in the amount of $100,000 to the 
Commission.  Payment shall be made in $20,000 installments within 15, 90, 180, 270, and 360 
days of the date of entry of this Order.  If any payment is not made by the date the payment is 
required by this Order, the entire outstanding balance of civil penalties, plus any additional interest 
accrued pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, shall be due and payable immediately, without further 
application.  Payments must be made as set forth in paragraph E below. 
 
       5.      Pendergraft shall comply with the undertaking in Section III, paragraph 74, above. 
        

                                                   

                                                 20 
---------------------Page 21---------------------

                                                                                                   
B.     Kevin W. McAleer 
 
       1.      Respondent McAleer shall cease and desist from committing or causing any 
violations and any future violations of Exchange Act Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B), and 
13(b)(5), and Exchange Act Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-13, 13a-14, and 13b2-1. 
        
       2.      McAleer is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission 
as an accountant. 
        
       3.      After one year from the date of this Order, McAleer may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief 
Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
        
               a.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
       of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such an 
       application must satisfy the Commission that McAleer’s work in his practice before the 
       Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public 
       company for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices 
       before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
               b.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
       Commission that: 
        
                      1)     McAleer, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, 
               is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
               accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to 
               be effective; 
 
                      2)     McAleer, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
               associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any 
               criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control 
               system that would indicate that the respondent will not receive appropriate 
               supervision; 
        
                      3)     McAleer has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has 
               complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board 
               (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
        
                      4)     McAleer acknowledges his responsibility, as long as he appears or 
               practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
               requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
               requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews, and 
               quality control standards. 
        

                                                  

                                                21 
---------------------Page 22---------------------

                                                                                                    
       4.      The Commission will consider an application by McAleer to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, if 
state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an 
application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in 
addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to McAleer’s character, 
integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
      5.       McAleer shall pay a civil money penalty in the amount of $25,000 to the 
Commission.  Payments shall be made in $5,000 installments within 15, 90, 180, 270, and 360 
days of the date of entry of this Order.  If any payment is not made by the date the payment is 
required by this Order, the entire outstanding balance of civil penalties, plus any additional interest 
accrued pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, shall be due and payable immediately, without further 
application.  Payments must be made as set forth in paragraph E below. 
 
       6.      McAleer shall comply with the undertaking in Section III, paragraph 74, above. 
        
C.     Thomas R. Johnson 
                
       1.      Respondent Johnson shall cease and desist from committing or causing any 
violations and any future violations of Exchange Act Section 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 14(a), and 
Exchange Act Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 14a-9. 
 
       2.      Johnson shall pay a civil money penalty in the amount of $25,000 to the 
Commission.  Payment shall be made in $5,000 installments within 15, 90, 180, 270, and 360 days 
of the date of entry of this Order.  If any payment is not made by the date the payment is required 
by this Order, the entire outstanding balance of civil penalties, plus any additional interest accrued 
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, shall be due and payable immediately, without further application.  
Payments must be made as set forth in paragraph E below. 
 
       3.      Johnson shall comply with the undertaking in Section III, paragraph 74, above. 
 
D.     Charles W. Yancey 
        
       1.      Respondent Yancey be, and hereby is, suspended from association in a supervisory 
capacity with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal 
advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating organization for a period of six (6) 
months, effective on the date of entry of this Order. 
 
       2.      Yancey, shall, within fifteen (15) days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money 
penalty in the amount of $25,000 to the Commission.  If timely payment is not made, additional 
interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717.  Payment must be made as set forth in paragraph 
E below. 
        

                                                  

                                                 22 
---------------------Page 23---------------------

                                                                                                   
       3.      Yancey shall comply with the undertakings in Section III, paragraph 74, above. 
   
E.     Respondents may make payments in the following ways: 
 
       1.      By transmitting payment electronically to the Commission, which will provide 
detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request; 
        
       2.      By making direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through the SEC 
website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
                
       3.      By certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States postal money order, 
made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
                      Enterprise Services Center 
                      Accounts Receivable Branch 
                      HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                      6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                      Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
                       
       4.      Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter 
identifying each payor by name as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these 
proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Gerald W. 
Hodgkins, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE, 
Washington, DC 20549. 
 
F.      The Commission will hold funds paid pursuant to this Section in an account at the United 
States Treasury pending a decision whether the Commission, in its discretion, will seek to 
distribute funds or, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3), transfer them to the general fund of 
the United States Treasury.  The Commission may distribute civil money penalties collected in this 
proceeding if, in its discretion, the Commission orders the establishment of a Fair Fund pursuant to 
15 U.S.C. § 7246, Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended.  Regardless of 
whether the Commission in its discretion orders the creation of a Fair Fund for the penalties 
ordered in this proceeding, amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this 
Order shall be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax 
purposes.  To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that in any 
Related Investor Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, 
offset or reduction of any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of 
Respondents’ payment of a civil penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”).  If the court in any 
Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that they shall, within 30 
days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in 
this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  
Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change 
the amount of the civil penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a 
“Related Investor Action” means a private damages action brought against Respondents by or on 

                                                  

                                                23 
---------------------Page 24---------------------

                                                                                                     
behalf of one or more investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order 
instituted by the Commission in this proceeding. 
 
 
                                               V. 
        
       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by 
Respondent, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other 
amounts due by Respondents under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree 
or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by 
Respondents of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set 
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 

 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
                                                      Brent J. Fields 
                                                      Secretary 

                                                   

                                                 24 
