---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                        Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
Release No. 9905 / September 8, 2015 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 75853 / September 8, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3685 / September 8, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16790 
                                               ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC  
                                               ADMINISTRATIVE AND   CEASE- 
                                               AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS 
In the Matter of                               PURSUANT TO  SECTION 8A OF THE 
                                               SECURITIES ACT OF 1933,  SECTIONS 
       Lawrence S. Meer , CPA,                 4C AND 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                               EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  , AND RULE 
Respondent.                                     102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES 
                                                                                        
                                                
                                                                                
                                                                  
                                                  
 
                                             I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against, Lawrence S. 
Meer, CPA (“Respondent” or “Meer”) pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 
                            1
(“Securities Act”), Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 
                                                                2
Act”), and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  

                                                 
1
 Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
              The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, 
              to any person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in 
              any way, if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications 
 
                                              
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                    
                                                  II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 
1933, Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-
and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                                 III. 
 
                                                                                   3
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that:  
 
                                             Summary 

       Meer served as the chief financial officer (“CFO”) of the MusclePharm Corporation 
(“MSLP”) from July 1, 2010 through July 2, 2012.  MSLP is a Denver-based sports nutrition 
company that develops, manufactures, and markets sports nutrition products.  When MSLP 
became a public company in 2010, Meer was unprepared for the Commission’s reporting 
requirements and failed to develop sufficient infrastructure to support its rapid growth.  MSLP’s 
revenues greatly increased each year (MSLP’s reported revenue was $3M in 2010, $17M in 2011, 
and $67M in 2012).  Meer lacked public company experience and failed to educate himself with 
the required expertise.  Meer failed to ensure sufficient internal controls were enacted and proper 
books and records were kept.  As a result, between 2010 and July 2012, when Meer ceased being 
                                                                                                                                                             
               to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to have 
               engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully 
               violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the 
               securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
        
2
 Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
               The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
               appearing or practicing  before it . . . to any person who is found…to have 
               willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of any provision of 
               the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
3
   The findings herein are made pursuant to Respon    dent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding 
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   

                                                  2 
                                                    
---------------------Page 3---------------------

CFO, MSLP had a series of accounting and disclosure failures that resulted in the company filing 
materially false and misleading filings with the Commission.  Specifically, as described further 
below, MSLP failed to disclose perquisite compensation to its executive officers, failed to disclose 
related party transactions, failed to disclose bankruptcies related to Meer’s companies, and 
committed other financial statement, accounting, and disclosure failures. 

                                          Respondent 

       1.     Lawrence S. Meer, CPA, age 54, was the CFO of MSLP from July 1, 2010 through 
July 2, 2012.  From October 2009 until July 1, 2010, Meer was the Director of Finance of MSLP.  
Meer then served as treasurer of MSLP from July 2, 2012 through March 1, 2013.  Meer was 
licensed as a CPA in Colorado from approximately 1987 to 2002, when his license lapsed.   
        
                                        Relevant Entity 
        
       2.     MSLP is a Nevada corporation, based in Denver, Colorado, that manufactures and 
markets sports nutrition products.  From 2010 to present, MSLP’s common stock was registered 
with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and was quoted on the OTC 
Bulletin Board. 
 
              MSLP’s Failure to Disclose Perquisites from 2010 through 2012 
 
       3.     From 2010 through 2012, MSLP materially understated its disclosed perquisites by 
approximately $411,000 or 96% in Forms 10-K, Forms S-1, and proxy statements filed with the 
Commission.  Meer reviewed, approved, and signed Forms 10-K and Forms S-1 while CFO.  
MSLP understated its disclosed perquisites in (1) 2010 by approximately $37,000 or 100%; (2) in 
2011 by approximately $160,000 or 100%; and (3) in 2012 by approximately $214,000 or 93%.   

       4.     From 2010 until July 2012, Meer reviewed expense reimbursements and charges 
coming through the accounting department.  Meer knew or should have known that executive 
compensation was required to be disclosed in Commission filings and Meer failed to educate 
himself regarding the required reporting of executive compensation in Commission filings or 
what were considered perquisites with respect to executive officers.  Meer failed to ensure 
sufficient internal controls were enacted relating to perquisites and proper books and records were 
kept.  Meer did not identify any potential perquisites.  As a consequence, MSLP did not disclose 
any perquisites in its filings with the Commission while Meer was CFO.   

       5.     From 2010 through 2012, MSLP’s chief executive officer (“CEO”) received 
approximately $198,000 of undisclosed perquisites.  The perquisites included perquisites related to 
meals, autos, apparel, personal professional tax and legal services, and two golf club memberships.  
During this time, MSLP also paid for perquisites of other executives that were not disclosed, 
including items such as the medical costs of the birth of a child, eye surgery, and personal golf club 
memberships.  Additionally, Meer received approximately $22,000 in perquisites from MSLP, 
which Meer also failed to record as additional compensation in the form of perquisites.  Meer also 
made material omissions and misrepresentations to the auditors about receipt of perquisites.   

                                               3 
                                                 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       6.     After Meer was no longer working for MSLP, on October 31, 2014, MSLP filed 
amended Forms 10-K for the years ended 2012 and 2013.  In total, MSLP failed to report 
perquisites totaling approximately $411,000 from 2010-2012. 
 
                MSLP’s Failure to Disclose Related Party Transactions with a  
                          Major Customer from 2011 through 2012 
 
       7.     Meer knew or should have known that policies regarding identifying and disclosing 
related party transactions were required and Meer failed to identify or implement sufficient policies 
regarding identifying and disclosing related party transactions.  As a result, from May 2011 
through July 2, 2012, while Meer was CFO, MSLP failed to disclose material related party 
transactions with a major customer in Commission filings that were reviewed, approved, and 
signed by Meer. 
        
       8.     In May 2011, MSLP hired a new chief marketing officer (“CMO”).  The CMO was 
a former executive and co-founder of a major customer of MSLP.  Meer knew that the CMO’s 
brother remained the CEO of the major customer.  The CMO’s brother was also a greater than 10% 
owner of the major customer.  From May 2011 to April 2012, Meer did not identify the related 
party relationship or consider if disclosure was necessary. 
 
       9.     In March 2012, MSLP’s auditor informed MSLP that transactions with the major 
customer were related party transactions requiring disclosure.  In April 2012, MSLP provided a 
memo to its auditors concluding that transactions with the major customer did not require 
disclosure under generally accepted accounting principles “GAAP.”  Meer reviewed and signed the 
memo.  The memo misapplied GAAP, which Meer, the only accountant signing the memo, did not 
correct.  The memo also contained inaccurate information about the relationship between MSLP, 
the CMO, and the major customer that Meer did not correct.  Meer did not consider whether 
transactions with the major customer needed to be disclosed as related party transactions under 
Item 404 of Regulation S-K.  The 2011 Form 10-K was filed three days after the memo was 
reviewed, approved, and signed by Meer, without any related party disclosure regarding the major 
customer.   
        
       10.    MSLP continued to fail to disclose transactions with its major customer as related 
party transactions in Commission filings, until it filed its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 
30, 2013 in May 2013.   
 
   Meer’s Failure to Disclose the Bankruptcies of his Former Companies from 2010-2012 
        
       11.    Two companies owned by Meer filed for bankruptcy in 2008 in the United States 
District Court for the Southern District of Florida.  MSLP never disclosed the bankruptcies of 
Meer’s former companies in Commission filings.  From April 2011 through October 2012, 
MSLP’s filings also included a misstatement that “[n]one of the members of the board of directors 
or other executives has been involved in any bankruptcy proceedings.”  Meer did not correct the 
misstatement or omissions in the Commission filings that he reviewed, approved, and signed.  
Meer also omitted to inform the auditors that his companies had filed for bankruptcy. 
                                               4 
                                                 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

        
      Other Financial Statement, Accounting, and Disclosure Failures from 2010-2012 
  
       12.    MSLP improperly accounted for advertising and promotional related costs for 
2010 and 2011.  Instead of accounting for advertising and promotional related costs as a 
reduction of revenue as required under GAAP, MSLP recorded these costs as advertising 
expenses resulting in it overstating revenue by $845,000 or 26% in 2010 and $3.6 million or 21% 
in 2011.  As a result, MSLP filed an amended Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 
on July 2, 2012 restating its 2010 and 2011 financial statements.  Meer did not read the applicable 
GAAP and did not evaluate the accounting for the various sales incentives MSLP offered.  This 
issue was first raised by MSLP’s auditor in mid-2012.  
 
       13.    MSLP recorded approximately $1.5 million of loss on settlement of accounts 
payable in the first quarter of 2011, when GAAP required it be disclosed in 2010.  By reporting 
the loss in the wrong quarter, MSLP understated its 2010 loss on settlement of accounts payable 
as presented on its income statement by 78% and overstated it by 455% in the first quarter of 
2011.  MSLP’s net loss was understated 8% in 2010 and overstated 42% in 2011.  Meer was 
aware of MSLP’s past due accounts payable and the eventual settlement in early 2011 using MSLP 
stock.  Meer, however, failed to consider whether the settlements should have been booked in the 
prior accounting period.   
        
       14.    MSLP failed to disclose continuing sponsorship commitments in its Form 10-K 
for the year ended December 31, 2011 and its Forms S-1 filed during 2012 as required under 
GAAP.  The future sponsorship commitments required MSLP to make future payments totaling 
$6.9 million through 2013.  Meer failed to consider whether the scheduled future payments needed 
to be disclosed.   
        
       15.    MSLP failed to disclose that it had one supplier that accounted for nearly 100% of 
its product purchases in its 2011 and 2012 Commission filings as required under GAAP.  Meer 
did not identify that this was required to be disclosed.   
        
       16.    MSLP failed to disclose the amount of its international sales in its 2011 through 
2012 Commission filings as required under GAAP.  MSLP’s international sales accounted for 
23% for 2011 and 30% for 2012.  Meer did not identify that this was required to be disclosed.     
 
                        Books, Records, and Lack of Internal Controls 
 
       17.    Because MSLP improperly recorded and/or reported its perquisites, related parties, 
revenue, losses on settlement of accounts payable, sponsorship commitments, manufacturing 
concentration, and international sales, its books, records and accounts did not, in reasonable detail, 
accurately and fairly reflect its transactions and dispositions of assets. 
        
       18.    In addition, MSLP failed to implement internal accounting controls relating to its 
perquisites, related parties, revenue, losses on settlement, sponsorship commitments, 
manufacturing concentration, and international sales, which were sufficient to provide reasonable 
                                               5 
                                                 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

assurances that transactions were recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of financial 
statements in conformity with GAAP and to maintain the accountability of assets. 
 
                                            Violations   
 
                                                                          4
       19.    As a result of the conduct described above, Meer willfully   violated Sections 
17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act  and  was a   cause   of MSLP’s violations of Sections 
17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act, which make it unlawful for any person in the offer or 
sale of any securities by the use of interstate commerce to obtain money or property by means of 
any untrue statement of a material fact or any omission to state a material fact necessary in order to 
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not 
misleading; and to engage in any transaction, practice, or course of business which operates or 
would operate as a fraud or deceit upon the purchaser. 
        
       20.    As a result of the conduct described above, Meer was a cause of MSLP’s violations 
of Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 14a-9 thereunder, which prohibits solicitations by 
means of a proxy statement, form of proxy, notice of meeting or other communication, written or 
oral, containing a statement which, at the time and in the light of the circumstances under which it 
was made, was false or misleading with respect to any material fact, or which omitted to state any 
material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein not false or misleading or necessary 
to correct any statement in any earlier communication with respect to the solicitation of a proxy for 
the same meeting or subject matter which has become false or misleading. 
 
       21.    As a result of the conduct described above, Meer was a cause of MSLP’s violations 
of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13, and 12b-20 thereunder, which 
require every issuer of a security registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act file with 
the Commission information, documents, and annual and quarterly reports as the Commission 
may require, and mandate that periodic reports contain such further material information as may 
be necessary to make the required statements not misleading.  
        
       22.    As a result of the conduct described above, Meer was a cause of MSLP’s violations 
of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to make and keep 
books, records and accounts, which in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their 
transactions and dispositions of assets. 
        
       23.    Aa result of the conduct described above, Meer was a cause of MSLP’s violations 
of Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and willfully violated Rule 13b2-1 thereunder, which 
                                                 
4
 A willful violation of the securities laws means merely “‘that the person charged with the duty 
knows what he is doing.’”  Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000) (quoting 
Hughes v. SEC, 174 F.2d 969, 977 (D.C. Cir. 1949)).  There is no requirement that the actor 
“‘also be aware that he is violating one of the Rules or Acts.’”  Id. (quoting Gearhart & Otis, 
Inc. v. SEC, 348 F.2d 798, 803 (D.C. Cir. 1965)). 
 

                                                 6 
                                                   
---------------------Page 7---------------------

require all reporting companies to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls 
sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the 
preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP and to maintain the accountability of 
assets; and prohibit persons from directly or indirectly falsifying or causing to be falsified any 
book, record, or account. 
 
       24.    As a result of the conduct described above, Meer willfully violated Exchange Act 
Rule 13b2-2, which prohibits any director or officer of an issuer from, directly or indirectly: 
(a) making or causing to be made a materially false or misleading statement; or (b) omitting or 
causing another person to omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make statements 
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading, to 
an accountant in connection with financial statement audits, reviews, or examinations or the 
preparation or filing of any document or report required to be filed with the Commission. 
 
                               Disgorgement and Civil Penalties 
 
       Respondent has submitted a sworn Statement of Financial Condition dated February 4, 
2015 and other evidence and has asserted his inability to pay a civil penalty. 
                
                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Meer’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Meer shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act and Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B), and 14(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-13, 13b2-1, 
13b2-2, and 14a-9 promulgated thereunder.   
 
       B.      Meer is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.    
 
       C.      After three years from the date of this Order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
                      review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with 
                      the Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                      Respondent’s work in his practice before the Commission will be 
                      reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 

                                                7 
                                                  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

                      for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he 
                      practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
                      Commission that: 
      
                      (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
                              associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting 
                              Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley 
                              Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
                              is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection 
                              did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the 
                              respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
                              indicate that the respondent will not receive appropriate 
                              supervision; 

                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
                              has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions 
                              imposed by the Board (other than reinstatement by the 
                              Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
                              Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an 
                              independent accountant, to comply with all requirements of the 
                              Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
                              requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring 
                              partner reviews and quality control standards.   
 
       D.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 
        
       E.      Based  upon  Respondent’s  sworn  representations  in  his  Statement  of  Financial 
Condition  dated  February  4,  2015  and  other  documents  submitted  to  the  Commission,  the 
Commission is not imposing a penalty against Respondent.  

       F.      The Division of Enforcement (“Division”) may, at any time following the entry of 
this Order, petition the Commission to: (1) reopen this matter to consider whether Respondent 
                                                8 
                                                 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

provided accurate and complete financial information at the time such representations were 
made; and (2) seek an order directing payment of the maximum civil penalty allowable under the 
law.  No other issue shall be considered in connection with this petition other than whether the 
financial information provided by Respondent was fraudulent, misleading, inaccurate, or 
incomplete in any material respect.  Respondent may not, by way of defense to any such petition: 
(1) contest the findings in this Order; (2) assert that payment of a penalty should not be ordered; 
(3) contest the imposition of the maximum penalty allowable under the law; or (4) assert any 
defense to liability or remedy, including, but not limited to, any statute of limitations defense.  

 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                     Brent J. Fields 
                                                     Secretary 
 
 

                                                9 
                                                  
