Lisa M. Beuche, CPA: Admin. Proc. Rel. No. 34-45596 / March 20, 2002
Home | Previous Page
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No.
45596
/
March 20, 2002
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT
Release No.
1525
/
March 20, 2002
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No.
3-10036
In the Matter of
Lisa M. Beuche, CPA
::::::
ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR REINSTATEMENT TO PRACTICE AS AN ACCOUNTANT RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF A PUBLIC COMPANY TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION
On September 28, 1999, Lisa M. Beuche, now Lisa M. Loran, ("Beuche") was suspended from appearing or practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against Beuche pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice.1
This order is issued in response to Beuche's application for reinstatement to practice before the Commission as an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission.
During 1996, Raintree HealthCare Corporation, formerly known as Unison HealthCare Corporation ("Unison" or the "Company"), filed with the Commission two consecutive quarterly reports that materially misstated the Company's net income.
Beuche, Unison's former controller, acting at the direction of her superiors' instructions, made unsupported journal entries that materially increased Unison's revenue for the second quarter of 1996, and materially increased receivables and decreased expenses for the third quarter of 1996.
Also, Beuche made materially misleading statements to Unison's auditors in connection with representations made to the auditors that the Company's 1996 second quarter financial statements were fairly presented and had been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
In her capacity as an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Beuche has undertaken to have her work reviewed by the independent audit committee of any company for which she works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while practicing before the Commission in this manner.
Beuche is not, at this time, seeking to appear or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant and has represented to the Commission staff that if she wishes to do so, she will submit an application to the Commission requesting that she be permitted to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant.
Therefore, Beuche's suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in accordance with the terms of the original suspension order.
On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to by Beuche, it appears that Beuche has complied with the terms of the September 28, 1999 order suspending her from practice before the Commission as an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission.
No information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to her character, integrity, professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis for adverse action against Beuche pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice.
Beuche's undertaking to have her work reviewed by the independent audit committee of any company for which she works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in her practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, is in the public interest.
Therefore, it is accordingly,
ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that Lisa M. Beuche, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission.
By the Commission.
Jonathan G. Katz
Secretary
Footnote
1
See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 1162, dated September 28, 1999.
Beuche was permitted, pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after two years upon making certain showings.
http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/34-45596.htm
Home | Previous Page
Modified: 03/20/2002