SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Release No. 42394 / February 7, 2000
Home | Previous Page
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Release No. 42394 / February 7,
2000
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT Release No. 1221 / February 7,
2000
Administrative Proceedings File No. 3-10141
COMMISSION STAFF CHARGES THAT H.J. MEYERS & CO., INC. VIOLATED NET
CAPITAL RULES
The Commission announced an Order Instituting Public Administrative
Proceedings (Order) against H.J. Meyers & Co., Inc., James A. Villa
and James C. Witzel. The Order alleges that from June through September
1998, H. J. Meyers & Co., Inc. (H.J. Meyers), through its President,
James A. Villa (Villa), and its Chief Financial Officer (CFO), James C.
Witzel (Witzel), failed to disclose net capital deficiencies ranging from
$360,000 to $4.5 million. During this time period, H.J. Meyers concealed
its net capital deficiencies through a series of fabricated journal
entries. H.J. Meyers' net capital deficiencies were caused, in part, by
the firm's failure to record a liability in connection with a $2.5 million
loan received from an outside investor and paid to HJM Group (Group), H.J.
Meyers' parent company. H.J. Meyers and Group were jointly and severally
liable for the loan.
The Order alleges that although the loan documents were signed in June,
the loan proceeds were not received until July 1998. H.J. Meyers' records,
however, were improperly backdated to show that it received the cash in
June. As a consequence, H.J. Meyers overstated cash by $2.25 million in
June. The Order further alleges that the $2.5 million loan was never
recorded as a liability on H.J. Meyers' books.
The Order alleges that H.J. Meyers and Group were to pledge 130,000
shares of stock as collateral for the loan. In June, H.J. Meyers
transferred these shares to Group. In July, Group gave the shares to the
investor, who placed the shares in a safe deposit box in a bank. Although
these 130,000 shares remained in the safe deposit box, they erroneously
reappeared as an asset on H.J. Meyers' books in July 1998. As a result of
the above transactions, H.J. Meyers overstated its assets and thereby
concealed net capital deficiencies in June, July and August 1998.
The Order alleges that Villa and Witzel caused and willfully aided and
abetted H.J. Meyers' violations. The Order alleges that Villa was
personally involved in the loan
negotiations and that he executed the various loan agreements on behalf
of both H.J. Meyers and Group. Villa's execution of the $2.5 million loan
agreements on behalf of H.J. Meyers caused the firm to incur a liability
that resulted in a net capital deficiency. The Order also alleges that
Witzel, the firm's CFO and Financial Operations Principal (FINOP)
completed H.J. Meyers' monthly FOCUS reports during the time period at
issue. The Order also alleges that Witzel, or others under his
supervision, was responsible for backdating H.J. Meyers' books for June,
the firm's failure to report the $2.5 million loan and the firm's improper
inclusion of the 130,000 shares on H.J. Meyers' books after the shares had
been transferred to the firm's lender.
A hearing before an administrative law judge will be scheduled to
determine whether the allegations in the Order are true and to determine
what remedial action, if any, is appropriate in the public interest.
http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/34-42394.htm
Home |
Previous Page
Modified: 02/11/2005