---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  

                                         Before the 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 57563 / March 26, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 2805 / March 26, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-11911 

                           : 
                           : 
In the Matter of             ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           : 
                             REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
                           : 
Steven H. Barry, CPA         BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           : 
                           : 

       On April 26, 2005, Steven H. Barry (“Barry”) was denied the privilege of appearing or 
practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public administrative 
proceedings instituted by the Commission against Barry pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                 Barry consented to the entry of the April 26, 2005 order 
without admitting or denying the findings therein.  This order is issued in response to Barry’s 
application for reinstatement to practice before the Commission as an accountant. 

       Barry served as the engagement partner for Deloitte & Touche LLP’s audit of Just for 
Feet, Inc.’s financial statements for the fiscal year ended January 30, 1999.  Barry reasonably 
should have known that the financial statements had not been prepared in accordance with 
GAAP, but nonetheless issued, with others, an unqualified audit report that represented that the 
financial statements were free from material misstatements and were presented in conformity 
with GAAP and that the auditors had adhered to GAAS when the audit was performed.  Barry 
did not comply with GAAS in the conduct of the audit and engaged in improper professional 
conduct within the meaning of Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice through 
repeated instances of unreasonable conduct. 

       Barry has met all of the conditions set forth in the original order and, in his capacity as an 
independent accountant, has stated that he will comply with all requirements of the Commission 
and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, including, but not limited to all 

1 
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2238 dated April 26, 2005.  Barry was permitted, pursuant 
to the order, to apply for reinstatement after two years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.  In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the 
preparation or review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the 
Commission, Barry attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent 
audit committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, while practicing before the Commission in this capacity.   

       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 

        On the basis of the information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed 
to by Barry, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the April 26, 2005 order denying 
him the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 
and that Barry, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in his 
practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission, and that Barry, by undertaking to comply with all requirements of the 
Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, including, but not limited to, 
all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
control standards, in his practice before the Commission as an independent accountant has shown 
good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Steven H. Barry, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant. 

       By the Commission. 

                                                             Nancy M. Morris 
                                                             Secretary 

2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 

“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
