---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                      the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 54906 / December 11, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2522 / December 11, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12501 
                                              
                                              
                                             ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-
In the Matter of                             AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS, 
                                             MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
      THOMAS F. GARBE,                       A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
                                             PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF THE 
Respondent.                                  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
 
 
 
 
 I.                                           
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Thomas F. Garbe (“Garbe” or 
“Respondent”) pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”).  
                                            
                                          II.  
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement of Thomas F. Garbe (“Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  
Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of 
the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these  
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to 
Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.    
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  1
                                                                                 that:  
 
A. SUMMARY     
 
       In 2001, the PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (“PNC”) endeavored to remove certain 
loans and venture capital investments from its financial statements by transferring them to certain 
entities that were specially created to receive these assets.  PNC made these transfers in order to 
reduce its exposure to loan losses and venture capital investment losses. PNC intended that the 
entities receiving these assets be regarded as “special purpose entities” (“SPEs”) under generally 
accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) that would not have to be consolidated with PNC.  For 
the second and third quarters of 2001, PNC filed financial statements with the Commission that did 
not consolidate these entities. 
        
       PNC’s accounting with respect to these entities was improper under GAAP, and PNC made  
materially inaccurate statements in its filings  with the Commission about its financial condition 
and performance, including, among  other things, a material oversta tement of its 2001 earnings.   
PNC’s failure to account properly for these transac tions, and its inaccurate disclosures, created a  
materially inaccurate picture that it was reducing its exposure to commercial lending and venture  
capital activities.  Further, PNC’s books and records were inaccurately maintained in connection 
with these transactions.  Accordingly, PNC violated, among other provisions, reporting and 
recordkeeping provisions of the federal securities laws.2 
                                                        
 
       Respondent Garbe failed to inquire adequate ly about facts and circumstances and was a 
cause of PNC’s violations of th e reporting and recordkeeping provisions of the federal securities  
laws.  During 2001, Garbe was  the head of PNC’s Accounting Po licy department, and, as such,  
had responsibility for ensuring that PNC’s accounting for each of the three transactions described 
below was in conformity with GAAP.  Garbe participated in discussions for the three transactions 
into  which PNC entered with American International Group, Inc. (“AIG”) during 2001, reviewed 
transaction-related documents, and researched and analyzed the pr oposed accounting treatment for 
those transactions.  Garbe should have inquired fu  rther to determine if certain features of the   
transactions made nonconsolidation of th  e entities by PNC improper under GAAP.  Most 
significantly, Garbe failed to adequately inquire    whether the fees paid to AIG reduced AIG’s    
investments in the SPEs below  the point at which nonconsolidation would be appropriate under 
GAAP.   Garbe, however, as head of PNC’s Accounting Polic         y department, approved PNC’s 
                                                 
1 
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer and are not binding on any other  
person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   
  
2 
       The Commission previously brought settled proceedings against both PNC and AIG related to 
their roles in these matters.  PNC Financial Services Group, Inc., Securities Act Release No. 8112, 
Exchange Act Release No. 46225, Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 1597 (July 18,  
2002); SEC v. American International Group, Inc., No. 1:04CV02070 (GK) (D.D.C. judgment entered 
Dec. 7, 2004). 
 
                                                2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

accounting for the three transactions and thereby was a cause of PNC’s violation of Sections 13(a) 
and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rules 12b-20 and 13a-13. 
 
B.      RESPONDENT 
 
       Thomas F. Garbe, age 54, was the director of PNC’   s Accounting Policy department from 
December 2000 to December 2001.  The Accounting Policy department followed and reported on 
relevant accounting literature and examined the accounting for all significant transactions at PNC  
to determine the proper accounting for them.  In January 2002, Garbe became director of Financial  
Accounting at PNC.  Garbe resides in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and is a certified public accountant  
licensed in North Carolina and Pennsylvania. 
 
C. RELEVANT ENTITIES 
 
                  1. The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.  is a Pennsylvania corporation with its  
principal place of business in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.  PNC is a bank holding company that is 
regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal Reserve Bank  
of Cleveland (together the “Federal Reserve”) and has a national bank subsidiary that is regulated 
by the Comptroller of the Currency. 
 
       2.     American International Group, Inc. is a Delaware Corporation with its 
principal place of business in New York, New York.  Through its subsidiaries, AIG is engaged in 
a broad range of insurance-related and asset management activities in the United States and 
abroad. 
 
D.      FACTS   
 
       1.     Structure and Accounting Treatment of Special Purpose Entity Transactions  
 
       During 2001, PNC entered into three transactions with AIG, “PAGIC I,” “PAGIC II”, and 
“PAGIC III,” respectively.  Each PAGIC transaction was intended to transfer certain loan or 
venture capital assets from PNC’s balance sheet to a SPE.  Each transaction involved the creation 
of two limited liability companies, one of which sold a substantial ownership interest to PNC and a 
minority ownership interest to AIG.  With funds received in exchange for its shares, each PAGIC 
entity purchased loan or venture capital assets from PNC; some assets were acquired directly in 
exchange for shares.  Many of the loan and other  assets transferred by PNC were volatile, troubled  
or nonperforming.   
        
       In each of the second, third and fourth quarters of 2001, PNC entered into a PAGIC 
transaction.  In its original financial reports filed with the Commission for the second and third 
quarters of 2001, PNC treated the loan and other assets transferred to the SPEs as if they were no 
longer assets of PNC.  PNC intended that, as  a result of the PAGIC transactions, PNC’s balance 
sheet would reflect a reduction in exposure to troubled loans and volatile assets.  PNC also 
intended, as a result of the PAGIC transactions, not to charge losses on the loans and other assets  
transferred to the SPEs against its income.  

                                               3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

        
       In sum, PNC transferred a total of approximately $762 million in loan and venture capital 
assets to the PAGIC SPEs, and PNC received preferred stock in  exchange.  PNC continued to 
service the loans and other assets transferred to the SPEs.   
          
       PNC’s ability to treat the assets transferred to the PAGIC SPEs as no longer owned by 
PNC depended upon whether the transactions complied with the GAAP requirements for 
nonconsolidation of SPEs.  As is discussed in greater detail below, at the time PNC entered into 
each of the PAGIC transactions, GAAP required, among other things, that an independent third 
party be the majority owner of each PAGIC SPE and that the independent third party provide a  
substantive capital investment in the SPE.  Three percent was the minimally acceptable amount 
under GAAP to indicate a substantive capital investment sufficient for nonconsolidation.  GAAP 
further provided that fees paid to the owner of the SPE for structuring the transaction were treated 
as a return of the owner’s initial capital investment. 
 
       In fact, none of the PAGIC transactions complied with the GAAP requirements for 
nonconsolidation, in part because, in each transaction, AIG was to receive a fee that was in 
substance a structuring fee that eroded its minimum capital investment in the SPE.  Therefore,  
PNC’s second and third quarter 2001 financial statements included in the company’s Forms 10-Q 
were not presented in conformity with GAAP.  In short, PNC improperly treated the transfers of 
assets to the PAGIC SPEs as sales, when it should have consolidated the assets of the PAGIC 
entities in its financial statements.  This failure to consolidate resulted in, among other things, (a) a 
material overstatement of PNC’s earnings  per share for the third quarter of 2001 by 21.4%, (b) 
material understatements of the amounts of PNC’s nonperforming loans and nonperforming assets, 
and (c) material overstatements of the amounts of reductions in loans held for sale and 
overstatements in the amounts of securities available for sale. 
  
       2.     The PAGIC Transactions  
        
       PAGIC I closed on June 28, 2001 (two days before the end of PNC’s second quarter), 
PAGIC II closed on September 27, 2001 (three days before the end of PNC’s third quarter), and 
PAGIC III closed on November 30, 2001 (during PNC’s fourth quarter).  In the PAGIC I and 
PAGIC II transactions, PNC transferred to the PAGIC entities loans and participations in loans 
(“loan assets”) held by PNC’s principal bank subsidiary, PNC Bank, N.A., and in the PAGIC III 
transaction, PNC transferred venture capital investments held by a non-bank subsidiary.  In the 
PAGIC I transaction, PNC transferred $257.3 million in loan assets plus cash to a PAGIC entity, 
and in the PAGIC II transaction, PNC transferred $334.8 million in loan assets plus cash to a 
PAGIC entity.  In the PAGIC III transaction, PNC transferred $169.6 million of venture capital 
assets plus cash to a PAGIC entity. 
        
       Each of the PAGIC transactions provided for AIG to receive, in the first five years, total 
fees exceeding the amount that AIG contributed to the transaction.  For PAGIC I, AIG was to 
receive fees exceeding the $11.6 million that it contributed; for PAGIC II, AIG was to receive  
fees exceeding the $16.9 million that it contributed; and for PAGIC III, AIG was to receive fees 
exceeding the $8 million that it contributed.  In each transaction, a portion of the fees was paid 

                                               4
  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

by the PAGIC entity to AIG at the closing of the  transaction, and the remainder was to be paid 
over the following four years.  The agreements further provided that, if PNC liquidated its 
interest in the PAGIC entities, AIG would receive the present value of the remainder of the fees 
for the remainder of the five-year period. 
        
       3.     PNC’s Form 10-Q for the Quarter Ended June 30, 2001  
        
       In its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2001, filed with the Commission on August 
14, 2001, PNC disclosed its financial performance and financial condition for the second quarter of 
2001.  PNC did not include on its balance sheet, as set forth in this Form 10-Q, the assets it 
transferred to the PAGIC I SPE but did include its holdings of the PAGIC I preferred stock on its 
balance sheet, in the line item entry for securities available for sale.  Among other things, PNC 
stated in the Form 10-Q that (1) management was evaluating opportunities to reduce lending 
exposure, (2) loans at the end of the quarter were $44.2 billion, a $6.4 billion decrease from year-
end 2000, and (3) PNC had $374 million in nonperforming loan   assets and $390 million in total 
nonperforming assets.  The figures  on nonperforming loan assets and nonperforming assets did not 
include $84 million in nonperforming assets among the $257 million in loan assets that PNC had 
transferred to the PAGIC I SPE.  PNC’s Form 10-Q did not include any reference to the PAGIC I  
transaction. 
        
       4.     PNC’s Form 10-Q for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2001  
        
       In its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2001, filed on November 14, 2001, 
PNC reported that earnings per share for that quarter were $1.02 per share.  PNC did not include on 
its balance sheet, as set forth in this Form 10-Q, the assets it transferred to the PAGIC I and 
PAGIC II SPEs but did include its holdings of the PAGIC I and PAGIC II preferred stock on its 
balance sheet, in the line item entry for securities available for sale.  Among other things, PNC 
stated in the Form 10-Q that (1) loans at the end of the quarter were $42.1 billion, an $8.5 billion 
decrease from year-end 2000 and (2) PNC had $361 million in nonperforming loan assets and 
$374 million in total nonperforming assets.  The figures on nonperforming loan assets and 
nonperforming assets did not include a total of $207 million in nonperforming assets among the 
$592 million of loan assets that PNC had transferred to the SPEs established for PAGIC I and 
PAGIC II.  PNC’s Form 10-Q also did not include any reference to the PAGIC I or PAGIC II 
transactions. 
        
       5.     PNC’s January 17, 2002 Press Release  
        
       On January 11, 2002, the Federal Reserve directed PNC to consolidate the entities 
created in the three PAGIC transactions in PNC’s bank holding company regulatory reports for 
2001. 
        
       On January 17, 2002, PNC issued a press release announcing its fourth quarter and full- 
year 2001 financial results.   In this release,  PNC stated that its earnings per share were $1.91, 
and that its fourth quarter loss would be ($1.15) per share.  PNC also stated that it had reduced its 
institutional loan portfolio through, among other things, “sale of institutional loans to 

                                               5
  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

subsidiaries of a third party financial institution.”  The release reported PNC’s results as though 
PNC did not consolidate the assets of the three PAGIC SPEs for financial reporting purposes.   
        
       6. 	   PNC Announces a Restatement with Respect to PAGIC Entities and Files  
              Restated Financial Results  
        
       On January 29, 2002, PNC announced that it would reverse the accounting for all three 
PAGIC transactions, restate its financial statements for the second and third quarters of 2001, 
and revise  its previously announced fourth quarter and full-year 2001 financial results.  The 
change in accounting and restatement resulted in, among other things, a $155 million charge to 
PNC’s earnings and a $0.53 per share drop (equivalent to 38%) in PNC’s previously reported 
earnings per share for 2001. 
        
       On March 29, 2002, PNC filed amended Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended June 30, 
2001, and September 30, 2001, that included restated financial results.  The amended Form 10-Q 
for the quarter ended September 30, 2001 set forth PNC’s restated financial results for the third 
quarter of 2001, including, among other things, PNC’s earnings per share for this quarter, which 
were $0.84 per share (approximately 18% less than the $1.02 per share reported in PNC’s 
original Form 10-Q for this quarter). 
        
       7. 	   Garbe’s Role in the PAGIC Transactions  
        
       In late May or early June 2001, Garbe learned from others that PNC was contemplating 
entering into the first of the PAGIC transactions.  PNC senior management asked Garbe, as head 
of PNC’s Accounting Policy department, to review PNC’s accounting for the proposed 
transaction.  Garbe participated in internal meetings with other PNC personnel in which the 
terms of the transactions were discussed.  He discussed the transaction with personnel from Ernst 
& Young, LLP, PNC’s auditor.  Garbe was also present for certain conversations between PNC 
and AIG personnel during which certain transaction terms were discussed, and he reviewed 
transaction documents. Prior to the closing of PAGIC I, Ernst & Young provided to PNC and 
Garbe a draft “Guidance Letter,” which opined that nonconsolidation of the PAGIC SPE 
conformed with GAAP.  This letter, however, made no mention of the fee paid to AIG.   A  
similar Guidance Letter was provided by Ernst &Young to PNC for PAGIC II and PAGIC III.   
Garbe subsequently reviewed and approved a memorandum prepared by PNC’s Accounting 
Policy department for each PAGIC transaction that analyzed the accounting for the transaction 
and mentioned the fee paid to AIG, but without analyzing the accounting implications of such a 
fee. These memos concluded that PNC’s nonconsolidation of the PAGIC entities was the 
appropriate accounting treatment under GAAP. 
       Throughout the relevant period, Garbe received information that should have prompted 
him to inquire further to determine whether PNC’s nonconsolidation of the PAGIC entities was 
proper under GAAP.  Most significantly, he should have known that, although the final 
transaction documents referred to AIG’s fee as “fee to the managing member” and “management    
fee,” the fee was in fact a structuring fee that would cause AIG’s investment to be reduced below 
the 3% minimally acceptable amount required for nonconsolidation under GAAP.  In connection 
with the PAGIC I transaction, Garbe knew that AIG initially proposed that PNC directly pay 
                                              6
  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

AIG a fee at the closing of the transaction.  Garbe rejected that proposal because such a fee 
would be viewed as a structuring fee.  The manner in which the fee would be paid to AIG was 
thereafter renegotiated.  As subsequently renegotiated, a PAGIC entity would pay AIG’s fee.  
For the first five years, AIG would receive a fixed annual fee that, in total, exceeded the amount 
that AIG invested in the transaction.  AIG would receive the present value of this fee even if 
PNC liquidated its interest in the PAGIC entities during the five-year period, and AIG would 
receive the same amount regardless of what took place with respect to the value or disposition of 
the loan assets that PNC contributed in the transaction.3
                                                          The facts relating to the funding and 
payment of the fee were understood by Garbe. 
       Garbe further knew that PNC would be the servicer of the loan assets that it transferred to 
the PAGIC entities.  PNC would retain the relevant loan records and establish bank accounts for 
loan collections.  As the loan servicer, PNC would receive payments, would be responsible for 
valuing the loans annually and for developing action plans for managing the workout of the loans, 
which would be reviewed by AIG periodically. AIG’s actual management of the PAGIC entities 
was limited, at best.  For its role as servicer of the loan assets, PNC was to receive a servicing fee 
paid by a PAGIC entity separately from the fee that the PAGIC entity paid to AIG.  The servicing 
fee paid to PNC, however, was significantly less than the fee paid to AIG, and, unlike the fee paid  
to AIG for the first five years, varied based on the value of the loan assets that PNC transferred in 
the transaction.4
                 This and other information that arose during the course of the negotiations with 
AIG presented Garbe with reasons to evaluate whether AIG’s fee for management services was 
actually a structuring fee that would reduce AIG’s investment below the required 3% minimum 
and accordingly would cause the accounting for the transaction not to be in conformity with 
GAAP.  Consequently, Garbe should have made further inquiry into the nature of AIG’s fee.  
Nevertheless, Garbe, as head of PNC’s Accounting Policy department, approved PNC’s  
nonconsolidation of the SPE established for the PAGIC I transaction without making such an  
inquiry. 
        
       For accounting purposes, the PAGIC II and PAGIC III transactions were substantially 
similar to the PAGIC I transaction.  In each case, Garbe should have made further inquiry to 
determine if the fees paid to AIG in the PAGIC II and PAGIC III transactions also were 
structuring fees that reduced AIG’s investments in those transactions below the 3% level.  
Nevertheless, Garbe approved PNC’s nonconsolidation accounting for the PAGIC II and PAGIC 
III transactions without making such inquiry.  
        
        
        
                                                 
3 
       During the first five years, AIG could not liquidate the PAGIC entities without PNC’s consent.  
To help ensure that AIG would receive its fee, the agreements further provided that, with one minor 
exception, the first monies received in connection with the loan assets would be deposited into a 
“Management Fee Account” until that account had a sufficient amount to pay AIG the fee when it became  
due. 
 
4 
       After the first five years, AIG’s fee would vary based on the value of both the loan assets and the 
value of a zero-coupon Treasury security purchased with some of the cash that PNC had contributed in 
the transaction. 
                                                7
  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

E.	      DISCUSSION  
        
       Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act requires issuers of registered securities to file periodic 
reports with the Commission containing information prescribed by specific Commission rules.  
Rule 13a-1 requires the filing of annual reports on Form 10-K.  Rule 13a-13 requires the quarterly 
filing of a Form 10-Q.  Rule 12b-20 requires, in addition to information required by Commission 
rules to be included in periodic reports, such further material information as may be necessary to 
make the required statements not misleading.  These reports are required to be complete and 
accurate.5
           Under the federal securities laws,6
                                             PNC is, and was at all relevant times, required to 
comply with GAAP in its filings with the Commission. 
        
       Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to “make and keep books, 
records, and accounts, which in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the issuer.”  “A company’s ‘books and records’ include not only 
general ledgers and accounting entries, but also memoranda and internal corporate reports.”7 
                                                                                           
 
       1. 	    PNC Violated Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and  
               Exchange Act Rules 12b-20 and 13a-13  
        
       PNC’s accounting for the PAGIC transactions was not in conformity with GAAP.  Among 
other things, the transactions did not satisfy the requirement that the majority owner (in this case 
AIG) make a substantive capital investment.  Because AIG’s fees were structuring fees, they 
should have been treated under GAAP as a return of AIG’s investment in the transaction, which 
reduced that investment below the 3% threshold.  Because the PAGIC transactions did not satisfy 
the criteria for nonconsolidation, PNC should have consolidated the PAGIC entities in its financial  
statements. 
        
       The failure to account properly for the PAGIC transactions resulted in a material 
overstatement of PNC’s earnings for the third quarter of 2001, among other things, and in  
inaccurate disclosures in the company’s Forms 10-Q for the second and third quarters of 2001.   
Those disclosures, described above, created a materially inaccurate picture of the extent to which 
PNC was reducing its exposure to commercial lending activities and the risks attendant thereto.  
Thus, for example, the amounts of nonperforming loans, nonperforming assets, and reductions in 
loans held for sale, were all materially inaccurate, in that they were improperly recorded on the 
assumption that the assets transferred to PAGIC I and PAGIC II had been removed from PNC’s  
financial statements.  In fact, PNC’s nonperforming assets and loans were materially greater than 
disclosed, because they should have included certain assets transferred to PAGIC I and PAGIC II, 
and its reductions in loans were materially overstated.  As a result of PNC’s improper accounting 
                                                 
5 
       See SEC v. Savoy Indus., Inc., 587 F.2d 1149, 1165 (D.C. Cir. 1978), cert. denied , 440 U.S. 913 
(1979). 
 
6	 
       17 CFR § 210.4-01(a)(1). 
 
7	 
       Gibson Greetings, Inc., Exchange Act Release No. 36357, 60 SEC Docket 1401 (Oct. 11, 1995). 
 
                                                8
  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

for the PAGIC transactions for the second and third quarters of 2001 and the resulting misleading 
disclosures in the company’s Forms 10-Q for those periods, PNC violated Sections 13(a) and 
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rules 12b-20 and 13a-13. 
         
        2.      Garbe Was a Cause of PNC’s Violations  
         
        For the reasons discussed above, Garbe should have known that the fee paid to AIG in each 
PAGIC transaction was a structuring fee and that PNC’s nonconsolidation of the PAGIC entities 
did not comply with GAAP.  Garbe, as head of PNC’s Accounting Policy department, had 
responsibility for ensuring that the accounting for each of the PAGIC transactions was in        
conformity with GAAP.  By his actions described above, Garbe was a cause of PNC’s violations of 
Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rules 12b-20 and 13a-13. 
 
                                                   IV. 
                                                      
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
 Respondent Garbe cease            and desist from causing any violations and any future violations of 
Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, and Exchange Act Rules 12b-20 and 13a-13.   
 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy                                                        M. Morris
       Secretary                                                     

                                                     9
  
