---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
                                                                                             

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No.  54187 / July 20, 2006 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No.  2462 / July 20, 2006 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-9303 

                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Richard J. Lajoie, Jr. 
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                          
        

       On April 30, 1997, Richard J. Lajoie, Jr. ("Lajoie") was suspended from appearing or 
practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public administrative 
proceedings instituted by the Commission against Lajoie pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                 Lajoie consented to the entry of the April 30, 1997 order, and 
imposition of the remedial sanctions set forth therein, without admitting or denying the findings 
of the order but for the Commission’s finding that a Final Judgment and Permanent Injunction 
and Other Equitable Relief had been previously entered against him. 

       From 1987 until November 1994, Lajoie served as controller for Structural Dynamics 
Research Corporation (“SDRC”), an Ohio corporation with its principal place of business in 
Milford, Ohio.  During this time, SDRC inflated revenue and earnings by recognizing both 
premature and fictitious revenue.  The Commission alleged that Lajoie knew or was reckless in 
not knowing that SDRC improperly recognized certain material amounts of revenue.  In addition, 
Lajoie allegedly omitted to state certain material information to SDRC’s auditors.  Finally, the 
Commission alleged that by such conduct, Lajoie violated the antifraud and certain other 
provisions of the federal securities laws. 

                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 910, dated April 30, 1997.  Lajoie was permitted, pursuant 
to the order, to apply for reinstatement after five years upon making certain showings. 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

       This order is issued in response to Lajoie’s application for reinstatement to practice 
before the Commission as an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial 
statements required to be filed with the Commission. 
 
              In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review of financial statements required to be filed with the Commission, Lajoie attests that he 
will have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of any company for which he 
works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while practicing before the 
Commission in this capacity.  Lajoie is not, at this time, seeking to appear or practice before the 
Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume appearing and 
practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be required to submit an 
application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will comply with the terms of 
the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Lajoie’s suspension from practice before 
the Commission as an independent accountant continues in effect until the Commission 
determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in accordance with the terms of 
the original suspension order. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”     2
                                                              This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Lajoie, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the April 30, 1997 order suspending 
him from practice before the Commission as an accountant, that no information has come to the 
attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, professional conduct or 
qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis for adverse action against 
him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, and that Lajoie, by 
undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of any company for 
which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in his practice before 
the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be filed with the 
Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 
        
        
        
        
        
        

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Richard J. Lajoie, Jr. is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                             
                                             
                                            Nancy M. Morris  
                                            Secretary  
