---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                  STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                            the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 53766 / May 8, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2427 / May 8, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12289 
_______________________________                                                               
     : 
     :  ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
     :                                         ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE- 
In the Matter of                     :             AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT 
                                     : TO SECTION 21            C OF THE SECURITIES 
JAMES R. AHRNS, JR., CPA,          :             EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND RULE 102(e) OF 
                                     :             THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
              Respondent             :             MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                     : REMEDIAL SANCTIO                NS AND A CEASE-AND- 
                                     : DESIST ORDER 
                                                               : 

 
 
                                                I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against James R. 
Ahrns, Jr., CPA (“Respondent” or “Ahrns”) pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  1
                                                  
                                                II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
                 The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before 
it . . . to any person who is found…to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of any 
provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

proceedings, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative and 
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and 
Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                                III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds2
                                                                                   that: 
  
A. RESPONDENT     
 
              Ahrns has been a certified public accountant licensed in the state of Ohio since 1985.  From 
1999 through early 2004, Ahrns was the controller of MCSi, Inc. (“MCSi”), a Maryland 
corporation headquartered in Dayton, Ohio.  In his capacity as controller, Ahrns made accounting 
entries on the books and records of MCSi, and also provided documents and information to its 
auditor in connection with its annual audits of the financial statements of MCSi.  Ahrns reported to 
the company’s chief financial officer. 
 
B. FACTS 
 
 1. Background 
 
              MCSi is a publicly-traded company whose stock is currently quoted in the “pink sheets” 
centralized quotation service for over-the-counter securities.  However, at all times relevant to the 
matters described herein the stock of MCSi was quoted on the NASDAQ National Market System.  
MCSi sold and installed audio-visual presentation and broadcast integrated systems, as well as 
computer products.  For the year ended December 31, 2001, MCSi reported net sales of over $800 
million.  In June 2003, the company filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 
of the United States Bankruptcy Code. 
 
              2.           MCSi’s accounting system.   
 
                            a.           MCSi used a system called JD Edwards as its accounting software.  When a 
sales transaction was input into JD Edwards, the system automatically generated documents such as 
invoices and packing lists, and recorded the appropriate accounting transactions on the books and 
records of the company.  Non-recurring, less routine transactions, however, had to be entered into 
JD Edwards manually.   
 
                            b.           At MCSi, journal entries for these non-recurring transactions were first 
handwritten on sheets headed “journal voucher.”  These manual journal voucher sheets were placed 
in three-ring binders, together with any relevant backup documentation, and were maintained in 
Ahrns’ office.  The transactions shown on the journal vouchers were then entered into JD Edwards.  
Some of these transactions were entered into the system by Ahrns.   
                                                 
2
  The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other 
person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
                                                 2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
  c. MCSi’s CFO was not                      familiar enough with JD Edwards to enter accounting 
transactions into the system himself.  Therefore, he gave Ahrns handwritten journal entry sheets 
reflecting transactions he wished Ahrns to enter into the books and records of the company.  On 
other occasions the CFO simply instructed Ahrns orally which journal entries to record.   
 
  d.           During the first quarter of 2002,        the CFO gave Ahrns several journal 
vouchers which the CFO had completed himself, and instructed Ahrns to enter those transactions 
into the JD Edwards accounting system.  These journal vouchers had no backup documentation 
attached, and did not reference any customer.  The entries they contained were headed “major 
projects” and “major projects 2.”  The CFO did not explain to Ahrns what transactions were 
referenced by these journal vouchers.   
 
 3. Concealment of company                 records from the auditors. 
 
                            a.           MCSi’s CFO had instructed Ahrns not to provide the manual journal 
vouchers to the company’s auditors, even if the auditors requested them sp ecifically, without his 
prior approval.  During the audit of MCSi’s financial statements for the 2000 year, however, the 
auditors asked to see the binder of journal vouchers.  When Ahrns informed the CFO of this 
request, the CFO directed Ahrns to hand him the binder.  The CFO removed some of the journal 
vouchers from the binder and placed them in his desk drawer.  He then told Ahrns to give the 
binder to the auditors.   
 
                            b.           The CFO removed journal vouchers from the books and records of MCSi 
on more than one occasion during the audits of MCSi’s financial statements for the years ended 
2000 through 2002.  Among the vouchers that were removed, and concealed from the auditors, 
were those relating to “major projects” and “major projects 2.”  These two entries added 
$30,203,901 to the revenue MCSi reported for the quarter ended March 31, 2002, with 
$16,432,341 being charged to cost of goods sold, for an increase in net income of $13,771,560 for 
the quarter.  The effect of these entries was to change what would have been a net loss of 
$7,293,112 to net income of $6,478,448.   
 
                            c.           The inflated revenue caused the financial statements of MCSi, for the 
quarter ended March 31, 2002, to fail to comport with generally accepted accounting principles.   
 
              4.           Ahrns signed the management representation letters to the auditors. 
 
                            a.           For each audit of MCSi’s financial statements from the 2000 year through 
the 2001 year, both the CFO and Ahrns signed the management representation letter to the auditor.  
In this letter, MCSi’s management was asked to confirm to the auditor that: 
 
               i.            all financial records and related data had been made available to them; 
 
               ii.          there were no material transactions, agreements or accounts that had not 
been properly recorded in the company’s books and records; and 

                                                 3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                
               iii.         there had been no fraud involving management or employees having 
significant roles in the company’s internal control.  
        
                            b.           Ahrns had concerns regarding certain manual journal entries on the books 
of the company because the CFO had never provided him with any backup documentation.  He 
also knew that manual journal vouchers had been concealed from the auditors, denying them 
access to certain financial records and related data of MCSi.  Nevertheless, both the CFO and 
Ahrns signed the management representation letters for the audits of the company’s financial 
statements for the years ended 2000 through 2001. 
 
C. VIOLATIONS  
 
              1.           Aiding and abetting liability arises when there is: (a) a violation of the securities 
laws by some other party; (b) a general awareness by the aider and abetter that his role is part of an 
overall activity that was improper; and (c) substantial assistance by the aider and abetter in the 
achievement of the primary violation.  Either willfulness or "reckless indifference (to a known 
obligation or set of facts)" will satisfy the scienter requirement.  
 
              2.          Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder require 
issuers with securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act to file quarterly and annual 
reports with the Commission and to keep this information current. The obligation to file such 
reports embodies the requirement that they be true and correct.  
 
              3.           Rule 12b-20 provides that, in addition to information specifically required to be 
included in reports, registrants are obligated to include any material information necessary to make 
the statements made in the reports not misleading.  
 
              4.           Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires every issuer that has a class of 
securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act to "make and keep books, records, 
and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the issuer. . . ."  Rule 13b2-1 generally prohibits the falsification of 
books and records. 
 
              5.           Ahrns rendered substantial assistance to MCSi in its primary violations of 
Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder, and to MCSi’s 
CFO in his primary violations of Rule 13b2-2.  Not informing the auditors that the CFO had 
removed manual journal vouchers from the company's books, and signing the management 
representation letter made it more difficult to discover the fraudulent revenue the CFO had 
recorded.  This fraudulent revenue rendered the books and records of MCSi, and its public filings 
with the Commission, materially false.  Ahrns, as a CPA and the company controller, knew that he 
was involved in an activity that was improper. 
 

                                                 4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       6.           By making journal entries at the direction of the CFO, when he knew or should 
have known that those entries did not properly reflect company transactions, Ahrns violated Rule 
13b2-1.   
 
              7.           Rule 13b2-2, as in effect at the time of the conduct described herein, states that ”no 
officer or director of an issuer shall, directly or indirectly . . . omit to state, or cause another person 
to omit to state, any material fact necessary in order to make statements made, in light of the 
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading, to an accountant in 
connection with any audit, review or examination of the financial statements of the issuer. . . .” 3
                                                                                                    
 
              8.           By providing the manual journal vouchers to the auditors without disclosing that 
certain of them had been removed, and by signing the management representation letter, the CFO 
omitted to state a material fact to an accountant in connection with an audit.  Ahrns aided and 
abetted these violations of Rule 13b2-2. 
 
D. COOPERATION 
 
              Ahrns has rendered substantial assistance to the staff in its investigation of MCSi and its 
officers.   
 
E.     FINDINGS 
 
              Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Ahrns (a) willfully violated Rule  
13b2-1 promulgated under the Exchange Act; and (b) willfully aided and abetted and caused 
MCSi’s violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 
and 13a-13, and the CFO’s violations of Rule 13b2-2  thereunder.  As a consequence of these 
willful violations, and by aiding and abetting others in their violations of the federal securities laws, 
Ahrns should be sanctioned under Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
                                                IV. 
 
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanction and 
cease-and-desist order agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
              A.          Ahrns shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Rules 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 promulgated under the Exchange Act, and from 
causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange 
Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder. 
 
              B.          Ahrns is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant.  
 
                                                 
3
 Rule 13b2-2 has since been amended by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   
                                                 5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

              C.          After two years from the date of this order, Ahrns may request that the Commission 
consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) 
to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Ahrns’ work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                                         (a)         Ahrns, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with 
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Ahrns, or the registered pub                              lic accounting firm with which he is 
associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of or 
potential defects in his or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that he will not 
receive appropriate supervision; 
 
   (c) Ahrns has resolved all discip                              linary issues with the Board, and has 
complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
   (d) Ahrns acknowledges his res                                ponsibility, as long as he appears or 
practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all requirements of 
the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to 
registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
 
        D.          The Commission will consider an application by Ahrns to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, if 
state licensure is dependant on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an 
application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in 
addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

                                                      6 
