---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                            
 
 
 
                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
 
 Before                                         the 

                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No.  52357 / August 30, 2005                                   
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No.  2300 / August 30, 2005                    
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.   3-12021   
 
                                              ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
In the Matter of                              DESIST PROCEEDINGS, MAKING 
                                              FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A 
       David P. Levine,                       CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
                                              PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF                    
Respondent.                                   THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
                                              OF 1934  
 
                                            I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it a ppropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities  
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against David P. Levine (“Levine” or “Respondent”).    
                                              
                                            II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Levine has submitted an Offer of 
Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose  
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to          
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings                                                      herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are 
admitted, Levine consents to the entry of this  Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings,   
Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist  Order Pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“ Order”), as set forth below.  
                                              
                                              
                                              
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                  
                                              III.  
                                                 
On the basis of this Order and Levine’s Offer, the Commission finds1
                                                                    that:   
 

A. RELEVANT ENTITIES              

 1.           Kmart  

       Kmart Corporation (“Kmart” or the “company”) was a Michigan Corporation 
headquartered in Troy, Michigan, during the relevant period.  On January 22, 2002, Kmart filed a 
voluntary petition for reorganization relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code.  The                        
company’s common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the                  
Exchange Act and traded on the New York Stock Exchange until December 19, 2002, when  
trading was suspended.  Kmart’s fiscal year ends the last Wednesday in January.   

        2. Newell Rubbermaid                 
                                                                                                        Formatted: Left 
       Newell Rubbermaid Inc. is a Delaware corporation headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia.     
Newell Rubbermaid Inc. is a Fortune 500 corporation and a major Kmart vendor.  Subdivisions  
include EZ Paintr which manufactures and distributes paint applicator tools and related products.    
Newell Rubbermaid Inc.’s common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section  
12(b) of the Exchange Act and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange.                                          

B. RESPONDENT            

       David P. Levine (“Levine”) was Kmart’s Di   visional Vice President for the Do-It-Yourself   
(“D.I.Y.”) Division from April 1997 until July 2002.       

C. FACTS        

       1.     Kmart Improperly Recognized Vendor Allowances           

       Kmart improperly recognized millions of dollars worth of vendor “allowances” prior to 
bankruptcy.  Kmart obtained allowances from its vendors for various promotional and marketing    
activities.  A significant number of allowances were recognized prematurely – or “pulled 
forward” – on the basis of incorrect information provided to Kmart’s accounting department, 
while the correct terms of the payments were undisclosed.   As a result of these accounting 
irregularities, Kmart’s cost of goods sold was  understated, and earnings were materially   
overstated, for the fourth quarter of fiscal year ended January 31, 2001 (“fiscal year 2000”).   
 
                                                 
       1 
         The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and  
are not binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.     
 
                                               2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                                    
        2.     Kmart’s Vendor Allowance Tracking System (“VATS”) Forms             
 
       The principal document involved in the pulling forward of vendor allowances was Kmart’s  
Vendor Allowance Tracking System (“VATS”) form.  VATS forms summarized the basic terms of             
vendor allowances for the company’s accounting department.  Bookkeepers inputted information 
from the VATS form into the company’s computerized accounting system, where it was eventually  
posted to the general ledger.  To ensure proper                accounting for an allowance, the VATS form   
should have reflected the correct effective dates for the payment.  To pull forward an allowance,                               
this information was incorrectly reported on the VATS form to make it look like the payment was  
for past performance, when it actually  related to future obligations.   
 
        3.     Levine Signed A Misstated VATS Form  
   
       In late calendar year 1997, Levine negotiated a contract with EZ Paintr, a Newell  
Rubbermaid subdivision, whereby Kmart agreed to purchase goods from EZ Paintr pursuant to  
various terms and conditions.  The contract was executed on January 22, 1998 and expired at the  
earlier of:  (1) Kmart’s purchase of $45 million of goods from EZ Paintr; or (2) December 31,   
2001.  The contract further allowed for various volume-based allowances from EZ Paintr to Kmart.                                   
        
       In late calendar year 2000, Levine began negotiating with EZ Paintr an addendum to the                                      
January 22, 1998 contract in order to extend the existing contract.  On January 22, 2001, Levine   
and EZ Paintr’s presiden t executed a contract addendum pursuant  to which EZ Paintr agreed to 
issue Kmart a credit memo in the amount of $2 million titled a “2000 Promotional Fund” in    
exchange for Kmart’s agreement to purchase an additional $15 million in goods.  Levine and EZ   
Paintr further agreed that if “  during the life” of the addendum, Km art exited the paint applicator  
business, the $2 million would be refunded to EZ Paintr on a pro-rata basis.     
        
       In conjunction with the contract addendum, on or about January 29, 2001, Levine also   
signed VATS form No. 219052 which purported to account for the $2 million allowance issued by                                
EZ Paintr.  However, the VATS form incorrectly                        reported the effective date of the $2 million 
allowance as 2/1/00 to 1/30/01.  Kmart’s accounting personnel entered this incorrect VATS 
information into the company’s computerized   accounting system, where it was eventually posted 
to the general ledger.  As a result, Kmart’s cost of goods sold was understated by $2 million in   
fiscal year 2000.      

       4.      Kmart’s Earnings Were Overstated  

       On March 13, 2001 Kmart filed its Form 10-K for fiscal year 2000.  According to the                                            
financial statements incorporated into the Form 10-K, Kmart reported net income for the fourth  
quarter of $249 million or $0.48 per share, exceed  ing Wall Street analyst expectations of $0.47 by 
a penny.  VATS form No. 219052 submitted by Levine caused net income for the quarter to be                           
overstated by slightly less than 1 percent. 
 

                                                 3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                                                                                                  
D. CONCLUSION                 

                                         As a result of the foregoing, Levine committed a violation of Rule 13b2-1 of the Exchange                            
Act and caused Kmart’s violation of Sections 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and   
13a-1 promulgated thereunder.              

                                                      IV. 
                                                         
         In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions  
agreed to in Levine’s Offer.   2 
                                 

         Accordingly, it is hereby ordered that Respondent Levine cease and desist from committing                   
or causing any violations and any future violations of Rule 13b2-1 of the Exchange Act and causing                   
any violations and any future violations of Sect     ions 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20           
and 13a-1 promulgated thereunder.       
 
        By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                     Jonathan             G. Katz
                                                     Secretary 

                                                 
2
   Levine has agreed to pay a $35,000 civil penalt       y in connection with a parallel civil action.  
                                                        4  
