---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                        Before the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  54634 / October 20, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2496 / October 20, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12460 
 
                                         
                                         
                                         
In the Matter of                        ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                        ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT 
RONALD J. GOEDDE, CPA,                  TO RULE 102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES 
                                        OF PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
Respondent.                             IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS   
 
 
 
 

                                            I. 

       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Ronald 
J. Goedde (“Respondent” or “Goedde") pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules 
of Practice.1
              

                                            II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 

                                                        
1
            Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
       may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . 
       who has been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by 
       reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or 
       aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the 
       rules and regulations thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3. below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 
102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  

1.    Respondent Ronald J. Goedde, age 56, is a certified public accountant licensed in the state of 
     California since 1977 whose license has been inactive since about 1996.  From 1996 until 
     June 30, 2001 he was the Chief Financial Officer of Cornerstone Propane Partners, L.P. 
     ("Cornerstone").   

2.    Cornerstone, a Delaware limited partnership, formerly with headquarters in Watsonville, 
     California, was at one time one of the nation's largest propane marketers, and at the time of 
     the conduct discussed herein, its units were traded on the New York Stock Exchange and 
     were registered under Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 
     Act”).   

3.    On October 10, 2006, a final judgment was entered against Respondent permanently 
     enjoining him from future violations of Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and 
     Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder, and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 
     13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 
     thereunder in the civil action S.E.C. v. Keith G. Baxter, et al. (Civil Action 05-3843 RMW, 
     N.D. Cal.).  Respondent was ordered to pay disgorgement  of $82,717, prejudgment interest 
     of $20,629.88, and a $35,000 civil money penalty. 

4.    The Commission's complaint alleged, among other things, that Respondent signed a 
     materially false Form 10-K for Cornerstone for fiscal year 2000 and three Forms 10-Q for 
     fiscal year 2001 that he knew or was reckless in not knowing failed to conform with 
     Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP").  The complaint further alleged that 
     Cornerstone's subsidiary Coast Energy Group ("CEG") had suffered a comprehensive failure 
     to accurately and timely record transactions on its books and records.  It also alleged that 
     CEG, before the 2000 Form 10-K was filed, had embarked on a project to systematically 
     reconcile numerous account balances at the company.  The complaint further alleged that 
     Cornerstone’s financial statements were not presented in conformity with GAAP because all 
     material transactions had not been properly recorded and the company’s accounting records 
     did not accurately reflect its transactions.  It also alleged the financial statements in 
     Cornerstone’s 2000 Form 10-K and 2001 Forms 10-Q failed to conform with GAAP in at 
     least three respects.  First, GAAP requires that all assets, liabilities and other items contained 
     in an issuer’s balance sheet be based upon reliable information.  The complaint alleged that 
     the scope of Cornerstone’s unsupported accounts rendered Cornerstone’s financial statements 
     materially unreliable.  Second, GAAP requires that when an issuer identifies a reasonably 

                                               2
---------------------Page 3---------------------

     possible loss, the issuer disclose the potential loss in its financial statement footnotes.  The 
     complaint alleged that Cornerstone failed to include any disclosure of this potential loss in 
     Cornerstone’s Commission filings.  Third, provisions governing consolidation in GAAP and 
     Regulation S-X require that inter-company items and transactions eliminate in the 
     preparation of the consolidated financial statements.  If an issuer’s inter-company balances 
     are not eliminated in consolidation, Regulation S-X requires disclosure of the balances and 
     the methods of treatment.  The complaint further alleged the financial statements did not 
     include such disclosure.  The complaint also alleged that Respondent signed four 
     management representation letters to the company's outside auditors that were false.   

                                               IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  

       A.         Goedde is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.  

       B.          After five years from the date of this Order, Goedde may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief 
Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as:  

               1.          a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
       review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission. 
       Such an application must satisfy the Commission that Goedde’s work in his practice 
       before the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the 
       public company for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he 
       practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or  

               2.          an independent accountant. Such an application must satisfy the 
       Commission that:  

                      a.           Goedde, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, 
               is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board ("Board") in 
               accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues 
               to be effective;  

                      b.          Goedde, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
               associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify 
               any criticisms of or potential defects in Goedde’s or the firm’s quality control 
               system that would indicate that Goedde will not receive appropriate supervision;  

                      c.           Goedde has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has 
               complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board 
               (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and  

                                                3
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                      d.          Goedde acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Goedde 
               appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
               comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but 
               not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring 
               partner reviews and quality control standards.  

       C.          The Commission will consider an application by Goedde to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits. The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Goedde’s character, 
integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission.  
 
By the Commission.  
 
 
 
                                             Nancy M. Morris 
                                                  Secretary 

                                                4
