---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                      the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 52257 / August 15, 2005 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2290 / August 15, 2005 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12012 
                                             ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
In the Matter of                             PROCEEDINGS, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                             IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
MARGARET M. EARDLEY,                         PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF THE 
                                             SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Respondent. 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
                                          I.  
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Margaret M. Eardley (“Eardley” or  
“Respondent”).   
 
                                            
                                          II.  
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to 
Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.    
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              III. 
                                                
              The Commission makes the following findings:  1 
                                                              
 
A. RESPONDENT     

       Margaret M. Eardley (“Eardley”), 36, was Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial 
Officer of First American Health Concepts, Inc. (“FAHC” or the “Company”) from October 1998 
to March 2000. 
 
B. RELEVANT ENTITY             
                                                
       First American Health Concepts, Inc. was an incorporated company headquartered in 
Phoenix, Arizona.  Its common stock was  registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 
12(b) of the Exchange Act and was traded on the  American Stock Exchange.  As of January 31, 
2001, FAHC had 2,635,691 shares of common stock outsta   nding.  In 2001, Luxottica Group, 
S.p.A., an Italian company, acquired FAHC.  Eardley never owned stock in the Company. 
 
C. FACTS        
                                                
       1. FAHC’s False Filing 
   
       In its Annual Report on Form 10-KSB for the fiscal year ending on July 31, 1999, filed 
October 29, 1999, FAHC reported accounts receivable of $2.4 million and pretax income of 
$693,000.  On July 24, 2000, approximately four months after Eardley’s voluntary resignation, 
KPMG LLP (“KPMG”) resigned as FAHC’s independent auditors and was replaced by Pannell  
Kerr Forster PC (“PKF”) for the fiscal 2000 audit.  During that audit, PKF discovered that FAHC’s  
accounts receivable had not been reconciled for years.2
                                                      PKF’s audit of the receivables showed 
that, as of July 31, 1999, FAHC’s reported accounts receivable were overstated by $892,000 and  
                                                 
1
   The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding 
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
  
2
   During 1998 or earlier (prior to Eardley’s employment), FAHC installed a data processing 
system for its accounts receivable and revenue reporting.  The data processing system was not 
integrated to its general ledger and required manual intervention for certain transactions.  Due to 
problems with the system, errors occurred which prevented certain transactions affecting 
individual accounts receivable from flowing through to the general ledger.  As a result, the 
general ledger receivable balances, which were the basis for the preparation of FAHC’s financial 
statements, were not in agreement with the detail accounts receivable records.  In addition, due to 
a computer malfunction before Eardley’s employment with FAHC, the sub-ledger data for the 
calendar year ended December 31, 1997 was completely lost.  There were no hard copies and no 
back-up of the data.  Instead of the year-end 1997 balances rolling forward to January 1998, 
those balances reverted back to 1996. 
 
                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

that FAHC’s 1999 reported $693,000 pre-tax income should have been a reported loss of 
$199,000.  PKF’s audit triggered a restatement (filed with the Commission December 20, 2000)  
that revised FAHC’s fiscal 1999 pre-tax income accordingly. 
         
       2.     Eardley Signed the False and Misleading 1999 10-KSB  
 
       Within a week of being hired in October 1998, as FAHC’s Chief Financial Officer, Eardley 
discovered the company’s accounts receivable problem, alerted the Chairman of the Board to the 
problem and requested the resources and support necessary to address the problem.  But Behrmann 
directed Eardley to focus on other projects unrelated to the accounts receivable problem and 
Eardley complied.3
                    She took some steps to determine the magnitude of the overstatement but she 
never compared the general ledger accounts receivable balance to the total of the subsidiary ledger  
accounts – a simple procedure that would have revealed the magnitude of the unreconciled 
difference.  Eardley took no further steps to rectify what she knew to be a serious accounting 
problem.  One year later, having taken no further action with respect to the receivables issue, 
Eardley signed the 1999 Form10-KSB disregarding that the financial statements included were 
false and misleading.4 
                      
        
       Eardley cooperated during the investigation.  There is no evidence that she benefited 
financially from signing FAHC’s false 1999 10-KSB, although if she had refused to do so she may 
have endangered her employment with FAHC. 
        
D. LEGAL ANALYSIS             
        
       Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to “make and keep books, 
 records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions 
 and dispositions of the assets of the issuer.”  Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires 
 issuers to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide 
 reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of 
 financial statements in conformity with GAAP and to maintain the accountability of assets.  
 Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act prohibits any person from knowingly circumventing or 
 knowingly failing to implement a system of internal accounting controls or knowingly falsifying 
 any book, record, or account required to be made and kept by Section 13(b)(2) of the Exchange  
 Act.  Eardley violated Exchange Act Section 13(b)(5) and caused FAHC to violate Exchange Act  

                                                 
3
  Simultaneously with the issuance of this Order, the Commission filed a settled civil action in 
the United States District Court for the District of Columbia against FAHC’s Chairman of the 
Board, John Behrmann, for his role in these events.  Pursuant to that settlement, Behrmann has 
agreed to pay a civil penalty in the amount of $75,000 and to the entry of an order permanently 
enjoining him from violations of certain securities laws and permanently barring him from  
serving as an officer or director.  
 
4
  Simultaneously with the issuance of this Order, the Commission filed a settled civil complaint 
against Eardley in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia.  Pursuant to that 
settlement, Eardley has agreed to pay a civil penalty in the amount of $25,000. 
                                               3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) in 1999 by failing to maintain sufficient internal accounting 
 controls and by failing to reconcile FAHC’s accounts receivable in 1999. 
 
        Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 thereunder requires all issuers  with 
securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act to file annual reports on Form 10-K.  
Exchange Act Rule 12b-20 further requires that, in addition to the information expressly required 
to be included in such reports, an issuer must include such additional material information as may 
be necessary to make the required statements, in light of the circumstances under which they were  
made, not misleading.  Rule 13a-1 requires the filing of annual reports that comply with the 
Commission's Regulation S-X, which requires that financial statements be presented in conformity  
with GAAP.  Eardley caused FAHC’s violation of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules  
12b-20 and 13a-1 thereunder by signing FAHC’s 1999 Form 10-K which incorporated materially 
false and misleading financial statements.  
  
 
                                                   IV. 
                                                      
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Eardley’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby  ORDERED that: 
 
        Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent Eardley shall cease and desist  
from committing or causing any violation and any future violation of Section 13(b)(5) of the 
Exchange Act; and from causing any violation and any future violation of Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-1 thereunder. 
 
 
  By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Jonathan                                                      G. Katz
       Secretary                                                    

                                                    4
  
