---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                                 

                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  

                                          Before the 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 51686 / May 12, 2005 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 2244 / May 12, 2005 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-10516 

                            :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                            :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE
In the Matter of 
                            :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                            :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Walter Cercavschi, CPA 
                            :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                            :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION  
                           
        

       On June 19, 2001, Walter Cercavschi ("Cercavschi") was suspended from appearing or 
practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public administrative 
proceedings instituted by the Commission against Cercavschi pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3) of the 
Commission's Rules of Practice. 1
                                  This order is issued in response to Cercavschi’s application for 
reinstatement to practice before the Commission as an accountant responsible for the preparation 
or review of financial statements required to be filed with the Commission. 

         For each of the years 1994 through 1996, Cercavschi was a partner at Arthur Andersen  
and a member of the Waste Management, Inc. engagement team.  The Commission’s complaint 
alleged that Cercavschi knew of Waste Management’s quantified misstatements and of 
accounting practices that gave rise to further possible misstatements.  Still, he approved the 
issuance of an unqualified audit report.  Furthermore, the complaint alleged that Cercavschi 
knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that the unqualified audit reports for the years 1994 
through 1996 were materially false and misleading.  Finally, it was alleged that Cercavschi knew 

                                                 
1 
 See  Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 1408  dated June 19, 2001.  Cercavschi was permitted,   
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after three years upon making certain showings. 
 
Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3)  
of this section may be made at any time, and the applic ant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated                         
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i).                        
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                 

that these unqualified audit reports would be incorporated into one or more registration 
statements filed with the Commission.  He consented to the entry of an order of permanent 
injunction and a Rule 102(e) suspension order. 
 
       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Cercavschi 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Cercavschi is not, at this time, seeking to 
appear or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to 
resume appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will 
be required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Cercavschi’s 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”  This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Cercavschi, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the June 19, 2001 order 
suspending him from practice before the Commission as an accountant, that no information has 
come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, professional conduct 
or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis for adverse action 
against him pursuant to Rule 102(e)  of the Commission's Rules of Practice, and that Cercavschi, 
by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of any company 
for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in his practice 
before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be filed with 
the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Walter Cercavschi, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                             
                                             
                                             
                                            Jonathan G. Katz 
                                            Secretary 
