---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                            Before The  
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No.  53533 / March 21, 2006 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No.   2397 / March 21, 2006 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No.   3-12244 

                             :  
                             :  
                               ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC  
 In the Matter of            :  
                               ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS, MAKING  
                             :  
                               FINDINGS AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL  
 Anthony P. Dolanski, CPA  :  
                               SANCTIONS PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e)  
                             :  
                               OF THE COMMISSION'S RULES OF PRACTICE 
 Respondent.                 :  
                             :  

                                                 I.  

The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropria     te and in the public 
interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Respondent 
Anthony P. Dolanski, CPA, (“Dolanski” or “Respondent”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the 
Commission's Rules of Practice. 1
                                   

                                                 II.  

 In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Dolanski has submitted an Offer of 
 Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of 
 these proceedings and any other proceeding brought by or on behalf of the Commission or to 
 which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings, except as to the 
 Commission's jurisdiction over the subject matter of these proceedings and as to the entry of the 
 injunction set forth in Section III, which are admitted, Dolanski consents to the entry of this Order 
                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
  
     The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by  
order . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who . . . has been by  
name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction by reason of his or her misconduct 
in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any 
provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations thereunder.  
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings, Making Findings and Imposing Remedial 
 Sanctions Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice (“Order”).  

                                                 III.  

On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  

A. Dolanski, age 60, was, during the relevant period covered by this Order, licensed in Pennsylvania 
and was a partner at KPMG LLP (“KPMG”).  Dolanski was the engagement partner on KPMG’s 
audits of the Xerox Corporation (“Xerox” or the “Company”) for the years 1995-1997.  Dolanski left 
KPMG in 1998.  

B. KPMG is a national public accounting firm and, during the relevant period covered by this Order, 
served as the independent public accountant for Xerox.  

C. Xerox is a New York corporation with its principal place of business in Stamford, Connecticut.  
At all times pertinent to the period covered by this Order, the common stock of Xerox was registered 
with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange 
Act") and traded on the New York Stock Exchange.  Xerox’s fiscal year ended on December 31. 

D. On January 29, 2003, the Commission filed a complaint against Dolanski and others in the United 
States District Court for the Southern District of New York. SEC v. KPMG LLP, et al., No. 03-0671 
(DLC).  On February 27, 2006, the Court entered a final judgment permanently enjoining Dolanski 
from violating Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and from 
aiding and abetting violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 
13a-13 thereunder.  Dolanski consented to the entry of the final judgment without admitting or 
denying the allegations of the Commission's complaint.  2

E. The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Dolanski violated Sections 
17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act and aided and abetted violations of Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder.  The complaint alleged that in the 
course of serving as the engagement partner for Xerox, Dolanski signed on behalf of KPMG an audit 
report that accompanied the 1997 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed by Xerox with the SEC.  That 
audit report stated that KPMG conducted an audit of Xerox’s financial statement in accordance with 
Generally Accepted Audit Standards, that KPMG planned and performed the audit to obtain 
reasonable assurances that the financial statements were free of material misstatements, that KPMG 
assessed the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by Xerox management and 
that it evaluated the overall consolidated financial statement presentation.  The audit report further 
represented that, as a result of KPMG’s audit, it was KPMG’s opinion that Xerox’s financial 
condition and results of operation were fairly presented in the financial statements in conformity with 
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.  The Complaint further alleged that each of these 
                                                                                                                                                 
2
 Scienter is not required to prove violations of Sections 17(a)(2) or (3) of the Securities Act.  Aaron v. 
SEC, 446 U.S. 680, 697 (1980).  Violations of these sections may be established by showing negligence.  
SEC v. Hughes Capital Corp., 124 F.3d 449, 453-54 (3d Cir. 1997); SEC v. Steadman, 967 F.2d 636, 643 
n.5 (D.C. Cir. 1992). 
 

 2                                            
 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

representations was materially false and misleading or omitted to disclose material information 
which would make the statements not false and misleading.  

                                                   IV.  

In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to accept 
Dolanski’s Offer of Settlement. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

            A.       Dolanski is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 

              B.          After one (1) year from the date of this order, Dolanski may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief 
Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such an 
application must satisfy the Commission that Dolanski’s work in his practice before the Commission 
will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company for which he 
works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the Commission in this 
capacity; and/or 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                                         (a)         Dolanski, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                                          (b)        Dolanski, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of or 
potential defects in Dolanski’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that Dolanski 
will not receive appropriate supervision or, if the Board has not conducted an inspection, has 
received an unqualified report relating to his, or the firm’s, most recent peer review conducted in 
accordance with the guidelines adopted by the former SEC Practice Section of the American Institute 
of Certified Public Accountants Division for CPA Firms or an or     ganization providing equivalent 
oversight and quality control functions; 

                                          (c)         Dolanski has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has 
complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
   (d) Dolanski acknowledges his responsi                            bility, as long as Dolanski appears 
or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all requirements of 
the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, 

 3                                              
 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards. 
      
        C.     The Commission will consider an application by Dolanski to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include 
consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to 
Dolanski’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice 
before the Commission. 

 

          By the Commission. 

                                                                       Nancy M. Morris 
                                                                                 Secretary 
 
    
    
    
 
 
 

 4                                               
 
 
