---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 53573 / March 30, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2405 / March 30, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12251 
 
                                                
In the Matter of                               ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                               ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
ARON R. CARR, CPA,                             PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                               COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
             Respondent.                       PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                               IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                         
 
                                            I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Aron R. Carr, CPA 
(“Carr” or “Respondent”), pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.1

                                           II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below. 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
      The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper 
professional conduct. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  2
                                                                                  that: 
 
A.     RESPONDENT 

       Aron R. Carr, age 30, was formerly a manager at KPMG.  He joined KPMG in 1997 and 
became a manager in September 2002.  He was a senior auditor on the FY 2002 audit of Tenet 
Healthcare Corporation (“Tenet”).  Carr is, and at all relevant times was, a certified public 
accountant licensed in the State of Texas. 

B.     FACTS 

       1.     Tenet Healthcare Corporation 

       Tenet owns and operates acute care hospitals and related health care services.  As of May 
31, 2002 (Tenet’s fiscal year end), Tenet was the second-largest investor-owned hospital 
company in the United States, owning or operating 116 hospitals nationwide.  Through FY 2002, 
Tenet’s fiscal year ended on May 31.  At the end of the fourth quarter of FY 2002, Tenet 
announced that the fourth quarter was the tenth straight quarter that its earnings growth had 
exceeded 20%, the seventh in a row in which earnings growth had exceeded 25%, and the fifth in 
a row in which earnings growth exceeded 30%. 

       Tenet had achieved these results through the use of an undisclosed aggressive charge 
strategy that it began using in FY 2000.  Pursuant to this strategy, Tenet had aggressively 
increased its gross charges (that is, its listed retail prices) for the purpose of meeting its 
management-determined earnings targets.  Most hospital revenue typically consists of fixed fee 
payments determined by government payors or by contracts with managed care companies, 
which are not affected by increases in gross charges.  Gross charges, however, have a direct 
impact on Medicare outlier payments and managed care stop loss payments.   3
                                                                              Tenet 
implemented its undisclosed aggressive pricing strategy to trigger substantial increases in 
revenue from Medicare outlier payments and stop loss payments. 

       From April 1999 through April 2002, Tenet hospitals raised charges, on average, over 
75%.  This resulted in a significant growth in outlier revenue for Tenet from $225 million in FY 
1999 to $758 million in FY 2002, and had a dramatic impact on the company’s earnings.  

                                                 
2
  The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer and are not binding on any other 
person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
 
3
 Medicare outlier payments are supplemental payments designed to compensate hospitals for 
treating extraordinarily sick Medicare patients.  Calculating outlier payments involves various 
steps, but the starting point for these calculations is the gross charges set by a hospital.  Stop loss 
payments are analogous to Medicare outlier payments but arise in the managed care context.  
Stop loss payments typically are a percentage of the gross charges and are triggered after gross 
charges reach a certain level. 

                                               2
---------------------Page 3---------------------

Tenet’s outlier revenue in 1999 represented about 27% of its earnings per share from operations 
and jumped to 41% when Tenet’s outlier revenue topped $758 million in FY 2002. 

       From FY 2000 through FY 2002, Tenet’s filings with the Commission contained no 
reference to Tenet’s aggressive pricing strategy of raising gross charges for the purpose of 
increasing revenue from Medicare outlier payments.  No information was disclosed about the 
growth trend in outlier payments, the impact of gross charges on Tenet’s revenue, or the 
sustainability of its aggressive pricing strategy. 

       On October 28, 2002, an industry analyst from UBS Warburg published two reports 
disclosing that Tenet’s earnings growth had been driven by dramatically increasing outlier 
payments (the “UBS Reports”).  The industry analyst correctly hypothesized that Tenet fueled 
the growth in outlier payments by significantly increasing its gross charges.  The publication of 
the UBS Reports and Tenet’s subsequent reaction to it contributed to a loss of market 
capitalization of more than $11 billion. 

       2.     KPMG’s FY 2002 Audit of Tenet’s Financial Statements 

       Tenet’s FY 2002 Form 10-K included its FY 2002 financial statements along with 
KPMG’s audit report containing an unqualified opinion stating that KPMG performed an audit in 
accordance with Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (“GAAS”).  In August 2002, the 
KPMG audit partner, Clete D. Madden (“Madden”), signed and authorized the release of this 
audit report.  Before issuing the audit report, Madden specifically verified, in the working papers, 
that the working papers were complete, when in fact the working papers and audit were not 
substantially complete. 

       3.     The Improper Modification of Working Papers 

       The working papers of an audit are the principal record of the work done and the 
conclusions reached during the audit.  See AU § 339.  Shortly after the publication of the UBS 
Reports in October 2002, Madden began modifying the working papers by adding comments 
about outlier payments.  He also assembled his audit team and instructed them to “clean up” the 
working papers.  Madden continued to modify working papers, and directed the audit team to 
modify working papers, even after learning in November 2002 that the Department of Health and 
Human Services (“DHHS”) and the Commission’s staff were separately investigating Tenet and 
its outlier payments.4

              a.     Improper Changes to Complete the FY 2002 Audit 

       The audit team, including Carr, spent over 500 hours changing the working papers in 
November and December 2002.  The audit team modified more than 350 working papers from 
the FY 2002 audit, including adding nine references to outlier payments.  The audit team made 
these modifications months after Madden signed and authorized the release of the audit report on 
Tenet’s FY 2002 financial statements.  Because of the modifications made by the audit team, it is 

                                                 
4
 The Commission has issued a separate order addressing the conduct of the partner and senior 
manager on the Tenet audit engagement. 

                                               3
---------------------Page 4---------------------

impossible to determine the actual condition of all of the working papers at the time that the FY 
2002 audit report was issued. 

       The modifications include documenting procedures that the audit team performed in 
November 2002 giving the impression that additional work was done before the issuance of the 
audit report.  For example, in November 2002, a staff member created a working paper 
documenting an assessment of the risk of material financial statement misstatement due to fraud.  
GAAS required that this assessment and documentation be done before the issuance of the audit 
report.  See AU § 316 (2000).  Carr (as well as Madden and the senior manager) then backdated 
his signatures on this document, giving the false impression that he had reviewed and signed this 
document before the issuance of the audit report. 

              b.     After-the-fact Creation of the FY 2001 Audit Compliance Binder 

       During November 2002, Carr also improperly created eight documents that together 
comprise what the auditors referred to as the Compliance Binder, and that related to the FY 2001 
audit.  Carr was a manager when he improperly created the Compliance Binder.  The purpose of 
the Compliance Binder was to document the procedures that tested Tenet’s healthcare 
compliance function.  The audit team purportedly relied on the fact that Tenet was closely 
monitoring its compliance policies to conclude that the risk of financial statement misstatement 
due to fraud was mitigated. 

       Carr created the FY 2001 Compliance Binder by copying certain working papers from 
either the FY 2000 or the FY 2002 Compliance Binder and placing the copies in the FY 2001 
Compliance Binder.  Carr did not do any of the substantive work detailed in the FY 2001 
Compliance Binder and did not know what work, if any, was performed.  Carr also misleadingly 
created an altered “ethics” document and placed it in the FY 2001 Compliance Binder.  Tenet 
provided a “FY 2002 Ethics Program Attendance Sheet” to the audit team during the FY 2002 
Audit.  In November 2002, Carr copied the sheet and placed it in the FY 2001 Compliance 
Binder.  However, because Tenet’s document was titled “FY 2002 Ethics Program Attendance 
Sheet,” Carr covered up that title and pasted the title “FY 2001 Ethics Program Attendance 
Sheet” onto the document before he copied it.  Even though Carr created the Compliance Binder 
in November 2002, he placed the date of July 2001 on each working paper that made up the 
binder. 

C.     THE RESPONDENT ENGAGED IN IMPROPER PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT 
       WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES 
       OF PRACTICE 

       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides, in part, that the 
Commission may censure or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before it to any person who is found by the Commission to be lacking in character or 
integrity, or to have engaged in improper professional conduct.  Rule 102(e)(1)(iv) defines 
improper professional conduct with respect to persons licensed as accountants. 

       As applicable here, improper professional conduct means a “single instance of highly 
unreasonable conduct that results in a violation of applicable professional standards in 

                                              4
---------------------Page 5---------------------

circumstances in which an accountant knows, or should know, that heightened scrutiny is 
warranted.”  Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(1).  As explained herein, Carr acted highly unreasonably in 
failing to comply with GAAS by improperly modifying and creating working papers. 

       GAAS states that the working papers are the principal record of the work done and the 
conclusions reached during an audit.  AU § 339.  The working papers should document that the 
auditor has adequately planned and supervised the work, gained a sufficient understanding of 
internal controls, and obtained sufficient competent evidential matter to afford a reasonable basis 
for an opinion.  AU § 339.05 (2000).  It follows from the AU § 339 requirements on working 
papers “that any addition, deletion, or modification to the working papers after they have been 
finalized in connection with the completion of the audit may be made only with appropriate 
supplemental documentation, including an explanation of the justification for the addition, 
deletion or modification.”5
                            The Commission has previously stated, “Working papers prepared or 
collected by auditors in the course of an audit provide the single most important support for their 
representation regarding compliance with [GAAS].  They serve as the repository for the 
competent evidential matter necessary to afford the auditors with a reasonable basis for opining 
on an issuer’s financial position.…  It is therefore imperative that auditors preserve their working 
papers in a complete and unaltered form.”6

       As a result of the conduct described above, Carr violated applicable professional 
standards by inappropriately modifying working papers and improperly creating the FY 2001 
Compliance Binder to evidence audit procedures that Carr knew or reasonably should have 
known were not performed.  Carr also violated these applicable professional standards by 
misleadingly creating a document and placing it in the working papers. 

D.     FINDINGS 

       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that the Respondent engaged in improper 
professional conduct within the meaning of Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.  Specifically, by altering the working papers after the issuance of the audit report, after 
the publication of the UBS Reports, and after government investigators began looking at Tenet, 
Respondent engaged in highly unreasonable conduct that resulted in a violation of applicable 
professional standards in circumstances in which he knew, or should have known, that 
heightened scrutiny was warranted. 

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in the Offer made by Respondent. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     Carr is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 

                                                 
5
 In re Fiedelman, SEC Rel. No. 48578 (Oct. 1, 2003). 
6
 In re Leidesdorf & Co., SEC Rel. No. 13268 (Feb. 16, 1977). 

                                               5
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       B.     After three years from the date of this Order, Carr may request that the Commission 
consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) 
to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

       1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, of any 
       public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such an 
       application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
       Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public 
       company for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices 
       before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 

       2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that: 

              a.      Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
              registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
              accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to 
              be effective; 

              b.     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
              associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any 
              criticisms of or potential defects in Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system 
              that would indicate that Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

              c.      Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has 
              complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other 
              than reinstatement by the Commission); and 

              d.     Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Respondent appears 
              or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
              requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
              requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and 
              quality control standards. 

                                               6
---------------------Page 7---------------------

       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has resolved 
all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, if state 
licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an 
application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition 
to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, 
professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       N                                              ancy M. Morris 
       S                                             ecretary 

                                                7
