---------------------Page 1---------------------

                         UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                      the
  
                 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 52411 / September 13, 2005 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2311 / September 13, 2005 
                                                               
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12037 
 
                                            ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
In the Matter of                            DESIST PROCEEDINGS, MAKING 
                                            FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A 
       VINCENT STECKLER,                    CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
                                            PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF 
Respondent.                                 THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
                                            OF 1934  
 
 

                                         I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate 
that cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Vincent Steckler 
(“Steckler” or “Respondent”). 
 
                                         II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted 
an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  
Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on  
behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting 
or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and 
the subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the 
entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and 
Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.1 
                                           

                                                 
1 
   As part of a final resolution of the Commission’s claims against him, Steckler has also offered to settle a  
pending civil action by consenting to the entry of a district court judgment ordering Steckler to pay a civil   
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                             III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds      2
                                                                                      that: 
 
       Summary 
 
       1.      During 1999, Legato Systems, Inc. (“Legato” or the “Company”) 
improperly recorded millions of dollars in revenue and income from contingent sales 
transactions arranged by its senior sales executives.  Vincent Steckler, while a sales 
executive for a different company that was acting as a reseller of Legato’s products, was 
a cause of Legato’s and its executives’ fraudulent reporting of its financial results during 
the third quarter ending September 30, 1999, based on a large transaction between Legato 
and Logicon, Inc. (“Logicon”), then a subsidiary of a public company.   
          
       2.      In particular, Steckler participated in his employer, Logicon, placing a $7 
million order with Legato, which Logicon had the right to cancel pursuant to a separate, 
“side” agreement.  Under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”), the 
cancellation provision in the side agreement prevented Legato from counting any part of 
the order as a current sale, although Steckler knew or was reckless in not knowing that 
Legato’s sales executives would submit the order to Legato without revealing the side 
agreement.  Steckler and the sales executives thereby caused Legato to include revenue 
from the order in Legato’s third-quarter 1999 financials announced publicly and filed 
with the Commission, which materially overstated Legato’s financial results for the 
quarter. 
     
       Respondent 
 
        3. Vincent Steckler      , age 45, was from July 1998 through August 2000 a vice 
president in charge of sales to government purchasers for Logicon.  
         
        Other Relevant Entity  
         
        4.     Legato Systems, Inc. (“Legato”) was, during the relevant period, a 
Mountain View, California corporation that developed and marketed software for 
managing the data-storage functions of computer networks.  Legato issued common stock 
that was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act 
and quoted on the NASDAQ National Market System.  In 2003, Legato was acquired by 
another company. 
         
                                                                                                                                                 
monetary penalty of $35,000.                                         SEC v. Steckler, Civil Action No. 03-04067 JW     (Northern District of       
California).  
2 
  The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding   
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.                  

                                              2
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       Legato’s Third-Quarter 1999 Financials Were Materially Overstated by Revenue 
       from the Large, Contingent Transaction Negotiated with Logicon  
        
       5.     On November 10, 1999, Legato filed with the Commission a quarterly 
report (on Form 10-Q), for its third quarter ended September 30, 1999, setting forth its 
financial statements.  Legato later filed an amended quarterly report (on Form 10-Q/A), 
restating its financials for that period and reporting that revenue had been originally 
overstated by more than $3.7 million or approximately 6 percent, and that its net income  
had been overstated by more than $2 million, or approximately 146 percent. 
        
       6.     In September 1999, Legato’s then-Vice President of North American Sales 
(Legato’s “lead sales executive”) sent a proposal to Steckler, asking Logicon to buy $7 
million worth of Legato’s software and services, for resale by Logicon to the U.S. Air 
Force.  Because Logicon had a pre-existing relationship with the Air Force but Legato 
did not, Legato needed Logicon in order to complete a sale by the end of its third quarter.  
However, Logicon did not yet have an existing “reseller agreement” with Legato, which 
under Legato’s practices would have permitted the proposed transaction to be completed 
through a purchase order.  Consequently, the persons negotiating the arrangement 
determined to document the order in an “order letter” that was to be followed by a 
reseller agreement consistent with the terms of the order letter.  
 
       7.     The deal hit a stumbling block when Steckler informed Legato’s lead sales 
executive that Logicon would not approve the order letter unless Legato granted Logicon 
the right to cancel its obligation to pay Legato the $7 million if Legato and Logicon did  
not negotiate a mutually acceptable reseller agreement within 30 days.  Logicon’s 
requested right to cancel the order, however, would prevent Legato from recognizing 
revenue from the transaction.  GAAP does not permit companies to recognize revenue for 
a contingent sale, including a sale to a reseller who does not in fact have a binding 
obligation to pay for the software purchased because the reseller has the right to cancel 
the purchase before any payment is made.  Under GAAP, contingent sales may not be 
recognized as revenue by the seller because collectibility of the sales price is not 
probable. 
 
       8.     Legato’s sales executives knew that the Logicon transaction would be 
jeopardized if the order letter contained any contingencies.  Steckler and the Legato 
executive agreed that Logicon’s cancellation right be reflected in a letter separate from  
the order letter.  Steckler knew or was reckless in not knowing that by placing the right to 
cancel in a separate “side letter,” Legato’s finance department would not learn of 
Logicon’s right to cancel the order when determining whether to recognize revenue for 
the transaction. 
 
       9.     Through a series of phone calls and e-mails, Legato’s lead sales executive 
drafted the proposed side letter containing terms that were agreeable to Steckler and to 
the Legato sales executives.  On September 29, 1999, the lead sales executive sent the 

                                            3
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

side letter by e-mail to Steckler and others.  The e-mailed side letter stated, in relevant 
part: 
   
       “Per our discussion the following is a clarification of the intent of the 
       order letter dated 9-30-99 between Legato and Logicon: The order letter 
       meets the GAP [sic] requirement 97-4 [sic] for revenue recognition.  The 
       order letter allows Legato to recognize revenue for our third quarter 
       ending 9-30-99 . . . . The order letter gives us 30 days to reach mutually 
       agreeable terms and conditions.  In the unlikely event that we do not reach 
       “mutually agreeable terms and conditions”, Logicon will have the right to   
       terminate the order letter and all obligations.  This contingency may not be 
       expressly stated in the order letter, because of the impact on revenue 
       recognition.  However, you have my assurance that in the event that we 
       can not reach terms we will not hold you to the commitment to pay 
       referenced in the order letter.” (Emphasis added.) 
 
On September 29, 1999, Steckler forwarded the e-mail containing the side letter to the 
person at Logicon who had authority to sign contracts with the comment, “Let’s go with 
this.” 
 
       10.     Legato’s lead sales executive then placed the side letter he had e-mailed to 
Steckler on Legato letterhead, signed it, and sent it by facsimile to Logicon.  On 
September 30, 1999, the person at Logicon who had authority to sign contracts signed 
and transmitted an order letter from Logicon to Legato to purchase $7 million worth of  
software and support services.  The side letter containing the right to cancel was not, 
however, attached to, referenced in, or included with Logicon’s order letter. The Legato 
sales executives did not forward the side letter to Legato’s legal or finance departments.   
 
       11.     Upon receipt of Logicon’s $7 million order letter, Legato recognized $5.8 
million as current revenue in the third quarter of 1999.  The order letter stated that the 
$5.8 million was for product that Legato had shipped.  (The remaining $1.2 million was 
to be separately recognized as revenue in later periods by Legato.)  However, because the 
Logicon order was subject to the 30-day cancellation clause contained in the side letter, it 
was improper for Legato to recognize revenue on the Logicon order during the third 
quarter of 1999. 
 
       12.     In January 2000, the $5.8 million in revenue Legato had recorded for the 
Logicon transaction in September 1999 was reversed when Legato’s outside auditors 
determined, based on events subsequent to the order letter but unrelated to the side letter, 
that Legato should not have recognized revenue on the Logicon transaction.  Legato 
publicly announced that it would be restating the results of the quarter ended September 
30, 1999 due to “an adjustment concerning one contract,” referring to the reversal of 
revenue from the Logicon transaction.  However, with its finance department still 
unaware of the side letter, Legato also stated that it believed “the revenue [from the 
Logicon transaction] will be recorded in the first and second quarters of 2000.”  The price 

                                            4
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

of Legato’s stock declined materially following the announcement of the planned 
restatement.  In 2000, the Logicon transaction was cancelled by mutual agreement of the 
parties.  
 
 Violations 
 
       13.    Material misrepresentations or omissions of fact made knowingly or 
recklessly and disseminated publicly by a company about its financials in a press release, or 
in a Form 10-Q filed with the Commission, constitute securities fraud in violation of 
Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.  E.g. SEC v. Rana Research, 
Inc., 8 F.3d 1358, 1362 (9th Cir. 1993). 
        
       14.    Legato’s third-quarter 1999 financial results, disseminated to the public in 
press releases and in its Form 10-Q filed with the Commission, were materially misstated 
by the inclusion of $5.8 million in revenue from the Logicon order.  Logicon’s order was 
subject to a cancellation clause, which Steckler working with others caused to be 
concealed in a separate side letter that made revenue recognition in the third quarter 
improper, and which caused Legato’s books and records and Form 10-Q to be materially 
misleading.  Accordingly, Steckler was a cause of Legato’s violations of Section 10(b) of 
the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder. 
        
       15.     Also as a result of the conduct described above, Steckler was a cause of 
Legato’s violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-13 and 12b-20 
thereunder, which require issuers with securities registered under Section 12 of the 
Exchange Act to file quarterly reports with the Commission that are true and correct and 
contain information necessary to ensure that the statements made in them are not 
misleading.   
        
       16.    Finally, by the above conduct Steckler also was a cause of others’ 
violations of Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder, which 
prohibit any person from knowingly circumventing internal accounting controls and from  
falsifying any required book, record or account.  Steckler also thereby was a cause of 
Legato’s violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, which requires 
companies whose securities are registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act to 
make and keep accurate books, records and accounts.   
 
                                           IV. 
                                             
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the 
sanctions agreed to in Respondent Steckler’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby  ORDERED that Respondent Steckler cease and desist                                      
from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 10(b) and 
13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 10b-5 and 13b2-1 thereunder, and from causing 

                                            5
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

any violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-20 and 
13a-13 thereunder.   
 
 
                               By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Jonathan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G.          Katz
       Secretary                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
 
 
 

                                                                                                                                                                                        6
 
