---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                       

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 57709 / April 24, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 2813 / April 24, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-10714 

                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Kevin R. Andersen, CPA  
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                          
        

       On March 5, 2002, Kevin R. Andersen, CPA (“Andersen”) was denied the privilege of 
appearing or practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against Andersen pursuant to Rule 
102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                              Andersen consented to the entry of the order 
without admitting or denying the facts, findings and conclusions therein.  This order is issued in 
response to Andersen’s application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the 
Commission as an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements 
required to be filed with the Commission. 

                  Andersen audited the financial statements of Itex Corporation (“Itex”) for the fiscal 
years ended July 31, 1992 through 1997.  Itex filed an amended Form 10-K for the period ended 
July 31, 1997 which included restated financial statements for the fiscal years ended July 31, 
1996 and 1997 and additional restated financial information stretching back to the fiscal year 
ended July 31, 1993.  These restatements were issued due to material misstatements in Itex’s 
financial statements during the relevant time periods.  In the course of his audits, the 
Commission found that Andersen engaged in improper professional conduct.  In particular, the 
Commission found that Andersen violated Statement on Auditing Standards Nos. 1 and 7 
because he failed to communicate with Itex’s predecessor auditor and failed to exercise 
professional skepticism in auditing certain of Itex’s barter transactions, which resulted in Itex’s 
filing financial statements that failed to comply with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. 
                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 1510 dated March 5, 2002.  Andersen was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after three years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Andersen 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Andersen is not, at this time, seeking to 
appear or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to 
resume appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will 
be required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, the denial of 
Andersen’s privilege to practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues 
in effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard 
in accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 
        
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Andersen, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the March 5, 2002 order denying 
his privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 
and that Andersen, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit 
committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, in his practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial 
statements required to be filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  
Therefore, it is accordingly, 
        
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Kevin R. Andersen, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as 
an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                              
                                             Nancy M. Morris  
                                             Secretary  
                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
 

                                                 2
