---------------------Page 1---------------------

   

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 58507 / September 10, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 2875 / September 10, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-10354 

                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Patrick A. Rossetti, CPA  
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                          
        

       On May 2, 2001, Patrick A. Rossetti, CPA (“Rossetti”) was denied the privilege of 
appearing or practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of 
the Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                     Rossetti consented to the entry of the order without 
admitting or denying the findings therein.  This order is issued in response to Rossetti’s 
application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant 
responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed with the 
Commission. 

                  The Commission alleged that the financial statements of Detour Magazine, Inc. 
(“Detour”) contained in their filings with the Commission during 1997 and 1998, as audited by 
Rossetti and others, materially misrepresented the company’s financial condition and results of 
operation.  Based upon his conduct during the audits of Detour’s financial statement, the 
Commission determined that Rossetti had willfully violated Section 10A of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and willfully aided and abetted Detour’s violations of 
Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder.  The Commission 
also determined that Rossetti engaged in improper professional conduct under Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice.  
 

                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 1388 dated May 2, 2001.  Rossetti was permitted, pursuant 
to the order, to apply for reinstatement after three years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                    

       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Rossetti 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Rossetti is not, at this time, seeking to appear 
or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume 
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be 
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Rossetti’s 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 
        
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Rossetti, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the May 2, 2001 order suspending 
him from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no information 
has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, professional 
conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis for adverse 
action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, and that 
Rossetti, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of any 
company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in his 
practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 
        
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Patrick A. Rossetti, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                               
                                               
                                              Florence E. Harmon 
                                              Acting Secretary  

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
 

                                                 2
