---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                  STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                            the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  54564 / October 3, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2491 / October 3, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12450 
                                              
      :  
 :                                                   
 :                                                    
       In the Matter of                      :             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                   :             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
                            MARK P. ABIDE, CPA         :             102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                   :             PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
            Respondent.                  :     IMPO        SING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                          :      
                                          :      
____________________________________ :              
                                                     
 
                                                I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Mark P. 
Abide (“Abide” or “Respondent”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1
            
                                                  

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3. below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
                     1.           Abide, age 44, was a certified public accountant licensed to practice in the 
State of Texas from March 1993 through February 28, 2006, when he did not renew his license.  He 
served as Director of Property Accounting at WorldCom, Inc. (“WorldCom”) from January 2000 
until he left the company in March 2003. 
        
                     2.           WorldCom was at all relevant times a Georgia corporation with principal 
offices in Clinton, Mississippi.  It provided a broad range of communications services to both U.S. 
and non-U.S. based businesses and consumers.  At all relevant times, WorldCom’s common stock 
was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (“Exchange Act”), and traded on the Nasdaq National Market System. 
 
                     3.           On July 27, 2006, the Commission filed a complaint against Abide in 
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Mark P. Abide, (06 CV 5660 (JSR)).  On September 27, 
2006, the United States District Court for the Southern District Court of New York entered an 
order permanently enjoining Abide, by consent, from future violations of Section 17(a) of the 
Securities Act of 1933 and Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, and 
13b2-1 thereunder, and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder.  Abide was also 
ordered to pay $57,947.22 in disgorgement of ill-gotten gains from his sales of WorldCom stock 
while participating in the fraud, and $12,912.20 in prejudgment interest; and a $57,947.22 civil 
money penalty. 
 
                           4.           The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, the following: 
 at the direction of WorldCom senior management, Abide and other WorldCom employees 
 caused WorldCom to materially overstate its earnings in contravention of generally accepted 
 accounting principles (GAAP) from the first quarter of 2001 through the first quarter of 2002.  
 During this time, Abide altered previously prepared quarterly reports, which were routinely 
 provided to WorldCom’s auditors and personnel responsible for preparing WorldCom’s SEC 
 filings, to include improperly capitalized line costs. Abide also made, and directed others to 

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 make, false accounting entries into WorldCom’s depreciable asset accounts to conceal 
 improperly capitalized line cost expenses from WorldCom’s independent auditors and the 
 investing public. Abide knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that these capitalized line cost 
 entries were made without supporting documentation, were not in conformity with GAAP, were 
 not disclosed to the investing public, and were designed to allow WorldCom to appear to meet 
 Wall Street analysts’ quarterly earnings estimates.  As a result of Abide’s and the other 
 employee’s actions, WorldCom understated expenses and overstated pre-tax earnings by 
 approximately $3.6 billion.  Abide further improperly benefited from his knowledge of and 
 participation in the ongoing fraud, when he sold 99% of the WorldCom stock he held in his 
 401(k) account at the end of January 2002 and the beginning of February 2002, just months 
 before the fraud became public.  Abide used the $57,947.22 of losses avoided to diversify and 
 therefore safeguard his 401(k) holdings. 
 
 
                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Abide’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
              A.          Respondent is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
              B.          After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                                         (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight     Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Respondent, or the registered                         public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 

                                                 3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

   (c) Respondent has resolved all di                                  sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
   (d) Respondent acknowledges                                     his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
      
        C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
        
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

                                                        4 
