---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                       Before the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 57444 / March 6, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2796 / March 6, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12984 

In the Matter of                       ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                       ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT 
RICHARD D. NYE, CPA,                   TO RULE 102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES 
                                       OF PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
Respondent.                            IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 

                                           I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Richard 
D. Nye (“Respondent” or “Nye") pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1 

                                           II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 

1 
      Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
      may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . 
      who has been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by 
      reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or 
      aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the 
      rules and regulations thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3. below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 
102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  

1.	  Respondent Richard D. Nye, age 52, has held a Texas CPA license since 1979.  He served as 
     Cornerstone Propane Partners, L.P.’s (“Cornerstone’s”) vice president of finance and 
     administration from January 1998 until November 2002, and as acting CFO from July 2001 
     until June 2002. 

2.	  Cornerstone, a Delaware limited partnership, formerly with headquarters in Watsonville, 
     California, was at one time one of the nation's largest propane marketers, and at the time of 
     the alleged conduct discussed herein, its units were traded on the New York Stock Exchange 
     and were registered under Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 
     Act”). 

3.	  On February 22, 2008, a final judgment was entered against Respondent permanently 
     enjoining him from future violations of Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and 
     Rules 10b-5 and 13b2-1 thereunder, and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 
     13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 in 
     civil S.E.C. v. Keith Baxter, et. al. (Civil Action 05-3843 RMW, N.D. Cal.).  Respondent 
     was ordered to pay a $25,000 civil money penalty and was barred as an officer or director of 
     a public company for three years. 

4. 	  The Commission's complaint alleged, among other things, that Respondent signed public 
     filings for Cornerstone during 2000 and 2001, including the Form 10-K for 2000 and three 
     Forms 10-Q for 2001.  The complaint alleged that he knew or was reckless in not knowing 
     the public filings at issue failed to conform with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
     (“GAAP”). The complaint further alleged that Cornerstone's subsidiary Coast Energy Group 
     (“CEG”) had suffered a comprehensive failure to accurately and timely record transactions 
     on its books and records.  The complaint further alleged that as a result Cornerstone’s 
     financial statements for the periods at issue were not presented in conformity with GAAP 
     because, among other things, CEG’s material transactions had not been properly recorded 
     and the company’s accounting records did not accurately reflect CEG’s transactions.   The 
     complaint further alleged that Cornerstone issued a false press release and Form 10-K for 
     2001 that included materially false statements regarding the nature and origin of a $9.8 
     million write-off associated with Cornerstone’s financial statement problems and that Nye 
     knew or was reckless in not knowing that the statements were false.  

                                               2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     Nye is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.  

       B.     After three years from the date of this Order, Nye may request that the Commission 
consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) 
to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as:  

              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
       review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission. 
       Such an application must satisfy the Commission that Nye’s work in his practice before 
       the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public 
       company for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices 
       before the Commission in this capacity; and/or  

              2.      an independent accountant. Such an application must satisfy the 
       Commission that:  

                      a.     Nye, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
              registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board ("Board") in 
              accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues 
              to be effective; 

                      b.     Nye, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
              associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify 
              any criticisms of or potential defects in Nye’s or the firm’s quality control system 
              that would indicate that Nye will not receive appropriate supervision;  

                      c.     Nye has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has 
              complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board 
              (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and  

                      d.     Nye acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Nye appears or 
              practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
              requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
              requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and 
              quality control standards. 

       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Nye to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 

                                               3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits. The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Nye’s character, 
integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission.  

     By the Commission.  

                                            Nancy M. Morris 
                                            Secretary 

                                                4

