---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                              STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                       the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  55931 / June 20, 2007 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No.  2618 / June 20, 2007 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.   3-12661 
 
                                               
In the Matter of                              ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
                                              PROCEEDINGS, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
      ALLIED CAPITAL                          IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
      CORPORATION,                            PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF THE 
                                              SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Respondent. 
 
                                                
 
                                           I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Allied Capital Corporation (“Allied” or 
“Respondent”).   
                                             
                                           II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and over the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to 
Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                          III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
       
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                           Respondent 
        
       1.      Allied Capital Corporation, incorporated in Maryland and headquartered in 
Washington, D.C., is a closed-end management investment company that has elected to be 
regulated as a business development company (“BDC”) pursuant to Section 54 of the Investment 
Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”).  Allied provides privately negotiated debt 
and equity financing to middle market companies, with a primary focus on private finance.  
Allied’s securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act.  Allied makes 
periodic filings with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. 
 
                                            Summary 
 
       2.           From the quarter ended June 30, 2001 through the quarter ended March 31, 2003, 
Allied violated recordkeeping and internal controls provisions of the federal securities laws relating 
to the valuation of certain securities in its private finance portfolio for which market quotations 
were not readily available.  During the relevant period, Allied failed to make and keep books, 
records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail, supported or accurately and fairly reflected 
certain valuations it recorded on a quarterly basis for some of its securities.  In addition, Allied’s 
internal controls failed to provide reasonable assurances that Allied would value these securities in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  Further, from the quarter ended June 
30, 2001 through the quarter ended March 31, 2002, Allied failed to provide reasonable assurances 
that the recorded accountability for certain securities in its private finance portfolio was compared 
with existing fair value of those same securities at reasonable intervals by failing to: (a) provide its 
board of directors (“Board”) with sufficient contemporaneous valuation documentation during 
Allied’s March and September quarterly valuation processes; and (b) maintain, in reasonable 
detail, written documentation to support some of its valuations of certain portfolio companies that 
had gone into bankruptcy. 
 
       3.           Allied has implemented new valuation processes, more detailed recordkeeping, and 
a series of additional controls and procedures over its valuation processes.  
 
                                           Background
 
       4.           As a BDC, Allied is required to value its private finance security portfolio pursuant 
to the requirements in Section 2(a)(41) of the Investment Company Act.  Because the large 
majority of Allied’s investments in its private finance portfolio are securities for which market 
quotations are not readily available, Section 2(a)(41)(B)(ii) of the Investment Company Act 
requires that Allied’s Board determine the fair value of its portfolio securities in good faith.  The 
fair value of securities for which market quotations are not readily available is the price Allied 
would reasonably expect to receive on a current sale of the security.1
                                                                       By the end of the relevant 

                                                 
1
 See AICPA Audit and Accounting Guide - Investment Companies (Sect. 2.35-2.39), which incorporates 
Accounting Series Release No. 118 (“ASR 118”).  The Commission has provided interpretative guidance related to 
financial reporting in the Accounting Series Releases, which is included in the Codification of Financial Reporting 
Policies.  Thus, conformity with the ASR 118 is required by Commission rules and is consistent with GAAP.  See 
also Articles 1-01(a) and 6.03 of Regulation S-X. 
                                                 2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

period, Allied’s private finance portfolio recorded at fair value grew to over $1.7 billion, which 
represented approximately 65% of Allied’s total assets, and included investments in 
approximately 152 portfolio companies.
        
       5.           From the quarter ended June 30, 2001 through the quarter ended March 31, 2003, 
however, Allied failed to make and keep books, records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail, 
supported the valuations of certain of its securities for which market quotations are not readily 
available  (“private finance investments”).  With respect to 15 private finance investments 
reviewed by staff, Allied could not produce sufficient contemporaneous documentation to support, 
or which accurately and fairly reflected, its Board’s determination of fair value.  Instead, in some 
instances, the written valuation documentation Allied presented to its Board for these investments 
failed to include certain relevant indications of value available to it (as further discussed below) 
and sometimes introduced changes to key inputs used to calculate fair value from quarter to quarter 
without sufficient written explanation of the rationale for the changes (e.g., changes from 
EBITDA to revenue-based valuations and in some instances, changes in multiples used to derive 
enterprise value).  The written valuation documentation retained by Allied for these private 
finance investments does not reflect reasonable detail to support the private finance investment 
valuations recorded by Allied in its periodic filings during the relevant period.  

 6. The following            are three examples of insufficient recordkeeping of Allied’s private 
finance investments during the relevant period.

    7.         Company A - During the relevant period, Allied held a debt investment in 
Company A, a telecommunications company.  Allied was unable to produce contemporaneous 
written documentation, in reasonable detail, to support its valuation of Company A during the 
quarters ended June 30, 2001 and September 30, 2001.  Specifically, Allied’s valuation of 
Company A for these quarters was derived, in part, by including revenues from discontinued 
lines of business to establish fair value.  Allied maintains that it used a reduced multiple to offset 
any potential overstatement that would have otherwise resulted from the inclusion of those 
revenues, but it did not provide the Board with contemporaneous written documentation, in 
reasonable detail, to support this claim.  In addition, Allied did not retain the valuation 
documentation it presented to the Board for Company A for the quarters ended December 31, 2001 
and March 31, 2002.  Allied valued its $20 million subordinated debt investment in Company A 
at $20 million (i.e., cost) in its Forms 10-Q for the quart  ers ended June 30, 2001 and September 
30, 2001.  In its 2001 Form 10-K and its Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2002, Allied 
valued its $20 million subordinated debt investment in Company A at $10.3 million.  Allied 
subsequently wrote down its subordinated debt investment in Company A to $245,000 in its Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2002. 

       8.      Company B - During the relevant period, Allied held a subordinated-debt 
investment in Company B, a direct marketing company.  Allied was unable to produce 
contemporaneous documentation, in reasonable detail, to support the basis for its valuation of 
Company B for the quarter ended March 31, 2003.  Specifically, Allied’s valuation was based, in 
large part, on a potential future buyout event by Allied that was preliminary in nature.  Allied 
maintains that – as a general practice – the Board would have discussed why this particular 
potential future buyout event was significant enough to form the basis of its valuation of Company 
                                                3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

B, but it could not provide contemporaneous written documentation in reasonable detail to support 
this claim.  Further, Allied’s valuation documentation did not fully reflect Allied’s consideration of 
competing buyout offers for Company B, which, if accepted, would have reduced the fair value of 
Allied’s investment.  Allied valued its $16.5 million subordinated debt investment in Company B 
at $14.3 million in its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 2003.  Allied subsequently wrote 
down its subordinated debt investment in Company B from $14.3 million to $50,000 in its Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003. 

       9.      Company C - During the relevant period, Allied held a subordinated debt 
investment in Company C, an office supply company.  Allied was unable to produce 
contemporaneous documentation, in reasonable detail, to support the basis for its valuation of 
Company C from the quarter ended September 30, 2001 through the quarter ended March 31, 
2002.  For example, Allied’s written valuation documentation failed to include all relevant facts 
available to it regarding Company C’s deteriorating financial condition, including the fact that 
Company C had lost one of its largest customers as a result of the terrorist attack on the World 
Trade Center.  Allied valued its subordinated debt investment in Company C at $8 million in its 
Forms 10-Q and Form 10-K for the quarters ended September 30, 2001 through March 31, 2002 
and subsequently wrote that investment down to $50,000 in its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 
June 30, 2002. 

              10.        Allied also failed to implement internal accounting controls relating to its private 
finance investment valuations that were sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that these 
valuations were fairly stated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or other 
criteria applicable to its financial statements.  For example, there were certain instances where 
Allied did not provide its Board (or its valuation committee) with sufficient written information to 
support the Board’s determinations of fair value.2
                                                    For example, in several instances, the written 
valuation documentation presented to the Board was incomplete or inadequate to support the fair 
value recorded by Allied (e.g., enterprise values were listed on worksheets without any 
explanation; necessary inputs and/or calculations were either missing or incomplete).  In other 
instances, Allied’s valuation documentation during the relevant period contained unexplained 
departures from, or changes to, key inputs from quarter to quarter.  During the relevant period, 
Allied did not provide its Board with written valuation documentation from prior periods.  At least 
one Board member, however, maintained prior period valuation documentation during a portion of 
the relevant period, but Allied did not regularly provide the Board with comparative information 
about prior period inputs until the quarter ended September 30, 2003. 

              11.        In addition, from the quarter ended June 30, 2001 through the quarter ended March 
31, 2002, the valuation documentation presented to Allied’s Board during the March and 
September quarterly valuation processes consisted of quantitative worksheets that failed to provide 
an adequate explanation of the various inputs.  For example, changes in valuations from quarter to 
quarter were not always explained in reasonable detail in the written documentation.  Moreover, 
Allied did not prepare a written description of the quantitative and qualitative analyses used to 

                                                 
2
 Allied’s failure to provide the Board with such information is inconsistent with the guidance in ASR 118 that a 
fund’s board must satisfy itself that “all appropriate factors relevant to the value of securities for which market 
quotations are not readily available have been considered . . .”  See supra n.1.  
                                                 4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

develop its valuations until the quarter ended June 30, 2002.  During this period, Allied also failed 
to maintain, in reasonable detail, written documentation to support some of its valuations of certain 
portfolio companies that had gone into bankruptcy.  While Allied maintain   s that its Board 
members and employees engaged in discussions before and during the Board meetings to satisfy 
themselves with the recorded valuations for Allied’s private finance investments, the written 
valuation documentation retained by Allied for certain private finance investments does not 
reflect reasonable detail to support the private finance investment valuations recorded by Allied in 
its periodic filings during the relevant period.3

              12.        During the relevant period, Allied private finance department personnel typically 
recommended the initial valuations on the investment deals on which they worked.  While there 
were some existing independent checks of Allied’s valuation process, these checks, standing alone, 
did not provide a sufficient assessment of the objectivity of valuations of the private finance 
investments.  For example, the valuation committee assigned to review each investment on a 
quarterly basis was comprised, in large part, of private finance managing directors and principals.  
Allied has since implemented new valuation processes, more detailed recordkeeping, and a series 
of additional controls and procedures over its valuation processes, including, but not limited to:  
quarterly valuation assistance from third-parties; and the establishment of a new Chief Valuation 
Officer position to oversee the valuation process.  

              13.        As a result of the conduct described above, Allied violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of 
the Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to make and keep books, records, and 
accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their transactions and dispositions 
of their assets.  See, e.g., In the Matter of Morgan Stanley, Admin. Proc. File No. 3-11725, 
Exchange Act Release No. 50632, 2004 SEC Lexis 2573 (Nov. 4, 2004) (finding, in relevant part, 
that Morgan Stanley’s failure to maintain documentation to support its bond valuations violated 
Section 13(b)(2)(A)).   
 
       14.        As a result of the conduct described above, Allied also violated Section 
13(b)(2)(B)(ii) of the Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to devise and maintain a 
system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles, or other criteria applicable to its financial statements.  
See, e.g., In the Matter of Morgan Stanley, Admin. Proc. File No. 3-11725, Exchange Act Release 
No. 50632, 2004 SEC Lexis 2573 (Nov. 4, 2004) (finding, in relevant part, that Morgan Stanley’s 
failure to maintain internal controls sufficient to ensure that it valued its bond positions and its 
aircraft in accordance with GAAP violated Section 13(b)(2)(B)). 
        
       15.        As a result of the conduct described above, Allied also violated Section 
13(b)(2)(B)(iv) of the Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to provide reasonable 

                                                 
3
 Commission guidance provides that “. . . directors should take into consideration all indications of value available 
to them in determining the ‘fair value’ assigned to a particular security.  The information so considered together 
with, to the extent practicable, judgment factors considered by the board of directors in reaching its decisions should 
be documented in the minutes of the directors’ meeting and the supporting data retained for the inspection of the 
company’s independent accountant.”  See ASR 118. 
                                                  5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

assurances that the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at 
reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences. 
          
                                                       IV. 
        In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts that 
were undertaken by Respondent and the cooperation that Respondent afforded the 
Commission staff.  
                                                       V. 
 
                                                Undertakings 
 
              Respondent has undertaken for a period of two years from the entry of this Order to: 
 
              1.           Continue to employ a Chief Valuation Officer, or a similarly structured officer-
level employee, to oversee its quarterly valuation process. 
 
              2.           Continue to employ third-party valuation consultants to assist in its quarterly 
valuation process for private finance investments in a manner consistent with the Respondent’s 
current practices.   
                                                          
                                                       VI. 
                                                          
         In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Allied’s Offer. 
 
         Accordingly, the Commission HEREBY ORDERS, pursuant                   to Section 21C of the 
Exchange Act, that:  
 
        A.      Respondent Allied cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
                 any future violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A); 13(b)(2)(B)(ii) and 13(b)(2)(B)(iv) of 
                 the Exchange Act; and  
 
        B. Respondent shall comply             with the undertakings enumerated in Section V above. 
 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

                                                        6 
