---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                              STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                       the 

                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  56470 / September 19, 2007 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2721 / September 19, 2007 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12811 
                                               ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                               ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
                                                PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
In the Matter of                                COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                                MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
PRESS C. SOUTHWORTH, CPA                        REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 

Respondent. 

                                           I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Press C. Southworth 
(“Southworth” or “Respondent”), pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1 

                                           II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (“Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of 
these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 

1 
 Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 

      The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before 
it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are 
admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative 
Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and 
Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds 2
                                                                                that:

 A.           SUMMARY 

       1.     These proceedings arise out of Press C. Southworth’s improper professional conduct 
in connection with the audit of the 1998 consolidated financial statements (“1998 audit”) of 
National Century Financial Enterprises, Inc. (“NCFE”).  Located in Dublin, Ohio, NCFE was a 
private healthcare finance company that ultimately went bankrupt in November 2002.  Southworth 
was the engagement partner for PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP’s (“PwC”) audits of NCFE for the 
years ended 1995 through 1998.  Southworth commenced work on the 1998 audit in approximately 
the Fall of 1998 and completed the audit in August 1999.  

       2.     NCFE created special purpose subsidiaries to operate separate investment 
“programs” under which asset-backed notes were issued to institutional investors in private 
offerings. NCFE represented to investors in the notes (“noteholders”) issued by nearly all 
programs that the proceeds of those notes would be used exclusively for the purchase of patient-
specific healthcare accounts receivable.  Although NCFE used some noteholder funds to purchase 
such accounts receivable, NCFE used a substantial portion of the private placement proceeds to 
make unsecured loans or loans secured by collateral other than healthcare accounts receivable 
(“non-permitted loans”).  These loans violated the requirements of the master trust indentures 
(“indentures”) that governed NCFE’s note offerings.  The quality of the receivables that the 
programs purchased was material to noteholders because the pool of purchased receivables was the 
sole source from which noteholders would be repaid.  NCFE concealed its non-permitted uses of 
noteholder funds by, among other things, making false and misleading statements in its annual 
financial statements, including the 1998 consolidated financial statements (“1998 Financials”).   

       3.     During the course of the 1998 audit, Southworth was aware that NCFE was making 
these non-permitted loans to various providers through the programs, which made up the vast 
majority of NCFE’s business.  Many of those providers did not have the ability to repay those 
loans.  The 1998 Financials did not adequately disclose the non-permitted loans, the resultant scope 
of the violations of the indentures, or the consequences that such violations had on NCFE’s 
liquidity and its ability to continue as a going concern.  NCFE’s 1998 Financials also did not 
reflect a sufficient reserve for the material impairment of its receivables portfolio that existed as of 
December 1998.  Yet, Southworth signed an unqualified audit report that erroneously stated that  

2 
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other 
person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
                                               2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

NCFE’s 1998 Financials were prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles (“GAAP”) and that the audit had been conducted in accordance with Generally 
Accepted Auditing Standards (“GAAS”). 

       4.     During the course of the 1998 audit, Southworth learned information suggesting 
that NCFE was reporting inaccurately aged receivables and including ineligible receivables in 
monthly investor reports (“investor reports”) on the performance of the individual programs.  In 
addition to PwC’s audit of NCFE’s consolidated financial statements, NCFE retained PwC to 
perform certain non-audit, agreed–upon procedures on one investor report each year for each 
individual program.  NCFE distributed the investor reports every month to the indenture trustees 
(“trustees” or “indenture trustees”), who in turn provided them to ratings agencies.  NCFE also 
provided copies of the investor reports to investors upon request.  This inaccurate reporting by 
NCFE management should have caused Southworth to question management’s integrity and 
triggered his obligations under GAAS to address evidence of possible fraud and illegal acts by 
NCFE.  Southworth failed to do so and instead continued to place undue reliance on management 
representations, including representations that non-permitted loans were collectible at the values 
ascribed to them by NCFE and that the indenture trustees for the programs and noteholders were 
aware of the non-permitted loans. 

       5.     After NCFE fired PwC as its auditor in early 2000, the successor audit firm of 
NCFE (the “Successor Auditor”) reviewed PwC’s workpapers and interviewed Southworth by 
telephone.  In the interview, the Successor Auditor asked Southworth whether he had concerns 
about NCFE management’s integrity.  Southworth stated that he had no such concerns.  
Southworth did not respond fully because Southworth did not also disclose any of the following 
matters that were relevant to management integrity: (i) NCFE was making non-permitted loans; (ii) 
NCFE was reporting inaccurately aged receivables and including ineligible receivables on investor 
reports; and (iii) PwC’s internal risk-assessment system rated NCFE’s integrity and ethics as “high 
risk.” 

       6.     After this discussion with Southworth, the Successor Auditor subsequently 
accepted NCFE as a client. 

       7.     NCFE’s fraud went undetected until 2002.  From early 2000 through 2002, NCFE 
raised nearly $2.5 billion from noteholders in continuance of its fraud.  

       B. RESPONDENT 

       8.     Press C. Southworth, age 59, of Columbus, Ohio, was an audit partner at PwC 
(and its predecessor, Coopers & Lybrand, LLP (“Coopers”)) from 1985 until he retired in 2001.  
Southworth was the engagement partner on the audits for NCFE’s 1995-1998 financial statements.  
Southworth is a certified public accountant, who was licensed in Ohio until his license lapsed in 
December 2006, after his retirement from PwC. 

                                              3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

       C.     OTHER RELEVANT ENTITY 

       9.     PwC is a Delaware limited liability partnership with its principal offices located in 
New York, New York.  PwC (and its predecessor, Coopers) served as NCFE’s auditor for NCFE’s 
financial statements for the years 1995-1998.    

       D.     FACTS 

                                          NCFE Background 

       10.    From 1991 through its bankruptcy in November 2002, NCFE acted through its 
individual programs to purchase medical accounts receivable from healthcare providers.  The 
programs raised the funds for the purchase of accounts receivable through private offerings of 
notes to institutional noteholders under SEC Rule 144A, which exempts certain offerings to 
“qualified institutional buyers” from the Securities Act.  Nearly all of the program indentures 
required the programs to use the note proceeds exclusively to purchase patient-specific healthcare 
accounts receivable from healthcare providers.  The programs and note offerings were structured as 
asset-backed securitizations, with the notes being fully collateralized by the purchased medical 
accounts receivable and cash reserves held in the programs.  From 1991 through 2002, NCFE’s 
subsidiaries issued more than $17 billion in asset-backed notes through private placements. 

       11.    NCFE’s programs were governed by indenture agreements among NCFE’s 
servicing agent, the programs themselves, and the trustees. With the exception of one small 
program, the indentures required all of the programs to engage only in one type of business 
activity: the purchase of the “eligible” medical accounts receivable of a hospital, physicians’ group, 
or other healthcare provider.  “Eligible receivables” were defined only to include the insured 
portion of a receivable for which medical services had already been rendered.  The programs 
purchased the receivables at a price equal to 97% of the receivables’ estimated collectible value.   

       12.    The indentures also required the programs to comply with certain requirements 
designed to protect noteholders from loss.  Failure to comply with certain key provisions of the 
indentures constituted an event of default.  If NCFE could not cure the defaults within a specified 
time period, the indentures required the program indenture trustees to declare a principal 
amortization event, which would cause the program to cease purchasing receivables and would 
require the trustee to begin distributing cash collections on the healthcare receivables to program 
investors in repayment of their principal and interest.  For example, to ensure that the programs 
always had sufficient collateral to cover the notes, the program agreements required that at all 
times the programs have cash reserves and eligible receivables equal to at least 111% of the 
amount of notes outstanding (“collateral coverage test”).  If the collateral dropped below 111% for 
more than seven days, the programs were required to begin repayment of investors’ principal and 
interest from the cash received on the repayment of the healthcare receivables.  The indentures also 
required healthcare providers to immediately replace receivables that became older than 180 days 
(“defaulted receivables”) with new eligible receivables.  If the provider did not, the value of the 
defaulted receivables was to be deducted from the next funding to that provider, and the defaulted 
receivables could not be counted as eligible collateral for purposes of the collateral coverage test. 

                                               4

---------------------Page 5---------------------

       13.    The programs required an annual audit of NCFE’s consolidated financial 
statements.  NCFE provided those consolidated financial statements to the program indenture 
trustees, the rating agencies that rated the notes, and some of the noteholders upon request.3 

        NCFE’s Use of Note Proceeds in Violation of the Indentures and Misrepresentations 
                                        to Noteholders 

       14.    From at least 1994 until 2002, NCFE used noteholder funds to make non-permitted 
loans, which was in violation of the indentures and contrary to NCFE’s representations to 
noteholders.  NCFE used significant amounts of noteholder funds to provide unsecured loans to 
healthcare providers that had already sold all of their medical accounts receivable to NCFE and 
had no additional such receivables to sell.  Most of these providers had incurred significant 
operating losses over a period of years and required additional funding in order to avoid 
bankruptcy. NCFE made many of these non-permitted loans to providers that were or became 
owned in whole or in part by NCFE’s principals.  

       15.    NCFE’s non-permitted loans were far riskier than purchased eligible accounts 
receivable. Because eligible receivables were to be paid by highly rated third-party payors, such as 
insurance companies, HMOs, and government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, for 
medical services that had already been rendered and billed to the payors, the eligible receivables 
were of high credit quality. By contrast, NCFE’s ability to collect on non-permitted loans was in 
many cases speculative, because the non-permitted loans were in substance unsecured loans to 
severely financially distressed borrowers or loans secured by collateral other than healthcare 
accounts receivable.  In fact, NCFE had very poor collection experience on its non-permitted loans, 
and in some cases NCFE went more than a year without receiving any payments from certain 
providers. 

       16.    The amount and significance of the non-permitted loans, as a percentage of the 
gross receivables reported on NCFE’s balance sheet, grew significantly during the period in which 
PwC audited NCFE’s financial statements.  Non-permitted loans comprised over 50% of NCFE’s 
receivables portfolio by the end of 1998. 

       17.    NCFE’s practice of making non-permitted loans caused the programs to be 
undercollateralized, with eligible receivables plus cash reserves falling well short of the required 
111% value of the notes. This should have caused an immediate acceleration in the maturity of the 
notes and early amortization of the programs. 

       18.    NCFE obscured its non-permitted loans and the resulting indenture violations by 
making false and materially incomplete disclosures in the 1998 Financials.  Footnote 8 to the 1998 
Financials disclosed that “the Company is not in compliance with various provisions of the Trust 
Indentures[.]”  Nonetheless, the 1998 Financials departed from GAAP because they did not 
properly disclose the nature and scope of these indenture violations and that NCFE was in default 

3
 NCFE’s audited financial statements and PwC’s audit reports were not included in the offering documents for the 
notes.  However, NCFE provided the audited financial statements and PwC’s audit reports to noteholders upon 
request. 
                                                5

---------------------Page 6---------------------

and could not cure many of these violations.  To the contrary, NCFE’s 1998 Financials stated that, 
in the Company’s opinion, the indenture violations in the programs “can be cured or do not 
represent material performance or covenant defaults.”  That statement was false and misleading, 
notwithstanding NCFE’s statement that “no assurance can be given that violations will be cured.” 

       19.    Footnotes 1 and 3 to the 1998 Financials divided NCFE’s healthcare receivables 
into three categories: “provider receivables,” “other provider receivables,” and “provider 
advances.”  The footnotes provided the following definitions for NCFE’s receivables: (1) 
“Provider receivables consist of purchased account receivables including various components of 
the client billing process such as third party settlements, disproportionate share, unbilled and 
monthly capitation amounts;” and (2) “[o]ther provider receivables, notes receivable, and 
equipment lease receivables represent advances against various forms of collateral including 
accounts receivable, real property and equipment.” The term “provider advances” was not defined.  
NCFE’s quantification and description of these three categories was inadequate to inform the 
reader of the existence or extent of any non-permitted loans in any particular program.  The 
disclosures: (1) did not state that any of these categories of receivables contained non-permitted 
loans or the amount of the non-permitted lending; and (2) did not clearly define “provider 
receivables,” “other provider receivables,” or “provider advances” so that a reader could 
understand the nature and substance of each of those categories of receivables. 

       20.    Further, NCFE failed to evaluate the impairment present in its receivables portfolio 
resulting from NCFE’s non-permitted loans to severely financially distressed providers.  NCFE’s 
allowance for loan losses was inadequate given its non-permitted lending activity.  

       21.    Noteholders eventually uncovered NCFE’s fraud in October 2002, by which time 
NCFE’s notes outstanding had grown to $2.9 billion from $1.25 billion in 1998, the year of PwC’s 
last audit. The noteholders called their notes, which drove NCFE into bankruptcy in November 
2002.  By that point, however, most of NCFE’s outstanding receivables were unsecured or backed 
by collateral that was virtually worthless.  As a result, noteholders lost more than $2 billion from 
NCFE’s fraudulent scheme. 

                Southworth Knew That NCFE Was Using Investor Funds in  

                                  Violation of the Indentures


       22.    Through PwC’s audits of NCFE, Southworth knew about NCFE’s widespread 
violations of the indenture agreements and also should have recognized the threats those violations 
posed to the noteholders’ interests.  The amount of the non-permitted loans was material to the 
programs’ assets and to the 1998 Financials.     

       23.    Southworth’s concerns about NCFE’s business practices were highlighted in a June 
25, 1999 memorandum to NCFE management entitled, “Open Items and Additional Audit 
Procedures for NCFE As of June 25, 1999” (the “June 25 memo”).  That memorandum was 
prepared by Southworth and others after NCFE’s principals revealed to Southworth their (later-
withdrawn) plans to take NCFE public in the near future.  The June 25 memo stated the need to 
“[m]eet with the Trustees and Investors to discuss the Indenture issues that we have noted in our  

                                               6

---------------------Page 7---------------------

audit.  We need to ensure that all parties are aware of the items noted below and do not consider 
them to be material breaches, which could result in an Event of Default.”  In the June 25 memo, 
several “Indenture issues” were identified, including: 

           •	 “Not forcing providers to repurchase all receivables that have aged out past 180 
              days”; 

           •	 “Inaccurately aged receivables being included on the Investor Reports (Location 
              99)” 

           •	 “Ineligible receivables brought on as collateral included in the Investor Reports 
              (Location 99)”; and 

           •	 “Whether the proformas, advances, and other items that are out of the ‘norm’ meet 
              the definition of a purchased receivable pursuant to the sales and subservicing 
              agreement.” 

Southworth did not communicate with the trustees or noteholders about these issues before 
completing the audit of NCFE’s 1998 Financials, based on his assumption, unsupported by 
sufficient competent evidential matter, that the trustees and noteholders were already aware of 
NCFE’s violations. 

       24.    As reflected in the June 25 memo, Southworth was aware that NCFE management 
included inaccurately aged and ineligible receivables on investor reports provided to the indenture 
trustees and noteholders.  This inaccurate reporting allowed NCFE to show compliance with the 
collateral coverage requirements of the indentures and conceal events of default from the indenture 
trustees. Southworth should have known that the investor reports failed to reflect NCFE’s 
indenture defaults as a result of its non-compliance with the collateral coverage test.  Southworth 
also was aware that NCFE management had recorded on its books and records $175 million of 
“Location 99” receivables.  PwC’s work papers documented that these Location 99 receivables 
lacked any detailed information, generally were over one year old, and that the agings of these 
receivables were “frozen.”  Southworth therefore was aware that NCFE was not forcing providers 
to repurchase receivables that had aged out past 180 days, as required by the indentures.  
Southworth also learned that NCFE entered into its system accounts receivable amounts that 
represented “pro forma” revenues for medical services that providers might render in the future, 
assuming that the providers continued to remain in business.  The pro forma receivables frequently 
represented periods of four to six months of operating revenues for a particular healthcare provider; 
these pro forma receivables inflated the medical accounts receivable and NCFE’s purported 
collateral amounts.  Southworth should have known that the indentures did not permit the 
programs to purchase “pro forma” receivables.  All of these facts should have indicated to 
Southworth that there were serious questions about NCFE management’s integrity, the possibility 
that NCFE management engaged in fraud or illegal acts, and whether NCFE’s 1998 financial 
statements were in conformity with GAAP. 

                                               7

---------------------Page 8---------------------

   NCFE’s Departures from GAAP and Incomplete and Misleading Financial Statement 

                                           Disclosures


       25.     In August 1999, Southworth signed an unqualified audit report on NCFE’s 1998 
Financials, stating among other things, that NCFE’s financial statements were fairly presented in 
all material respects in conformity with GAAP.  This statement was incorrect.  NCFE’s 1998 
Financials included an allowance for losses at December 31, 1998 of $22.2 million against a 
portfolio of provider receivables totaling $1.223 billion, more than half of which was comprised of 
non-permitted loans to financially distressed healthcare providers.  The programs required NCFE 
to establish holdback reserves from provider fundings that could be available to absorb up to 17% 
of each provider’s credit and collection losses.4
                                                 However, the credit and collection losses far 
exceeded 17% of the receivables portfolio for many providers.  The financial statements were not 
in conformity with GAAP because the holdback reserves and NCFE’s allowance for losses were 
insufficient to cover the material losses arising from the impairment of unsecured loans that NCFE 
had made to healthcare providers.  The financial statements also were not in conformity with 
GAAP because, although they disclosed the fact of indenture violations, they provided incomplete 
and misleading disclosure about the nature and significance of those violations, as discussed above.  
NCFE’s violations of the indenture collateral coverage test constituted an event of default requiring 
NCFE to engage in early amortization of the programs in which there were violations. 

       26.     More than half of NCFE’s receivables portfolio consisted of non-permitted loans.  
Many of NCFE’s customers had experienced significant operating losses over a period of several 
years and were experiencing severe liquidity problems.  GAAP required NCFE to evaluate these 
facts and the degree to which these unsecured loans were impaired so that an appropriate provision 
for loss could be recorded in accordance with Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5, 
“Accounting for Contingencies,” and Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 114, 
“Accounting by Creditors for the Impairment of a Loan.”  NCFE did not perform an impairment 
evaluation in accordance with these accounting standards.  Instead, NCFE fabricated collateral and 
ascribed excessive value to the collateral in order to avoid recognition of impairment losses.  
Southworth failed to perform sufficient audit procedures to identify the impairment in NCFE’s 
receivables portfolio. 

       27.     In footnote 8 to NCFE’s 1998 Financials, NCFE provided additional detail on what 
was by far the most significant liability on NCFE’s balance sheet -- “Notes Payable” -- and 
discussed the indenture violations in the programs.  Although NCFE caused the programs to be in 
violation of the core provisions of the indentures which prohibited nearly all of the programs from 
engaging in any business other than the purchase of eligible healthcare receivables, NCFE’s 
footnote description of the indenture violations minimized the significance of the indenture 
violations and failed to describe or provide any additional substantive information about the nature 

4 
 NCFE’s programs withheld 17% of the amount funded to providers as cash reserves primarily to provide additional 
collateral for noteholders, and secondarily to absorb credit or collection losses in the portfolio.  These reserves 
totaled $237 million at the end of 1998.  These reserves could be used on a provider-by-provider basis to absorb the 
first 17% of losses incurred for a particular provider.  However, the reserves for one provider could not be used to 
absorb losses in another provider’s portfolio.  Furthermore, in the event of early amortization of NCFE’s programs, 
the cash reserves were to serve as collateral to guard against noteholder losses rather than to absorb losses in specific 
provider accounts or to be used as a receivables valuation account. 
                                                 8

---------------------Page 9---------------------

and dollar magnitude of the indenture violations or the programs in which the violations were 
occurring. Instead, NCFE’s footnote misleadingly included management’s false “opinion” that the 
violations “can be cured or do not represent material performance or covenant defaults.”  That 
footnote disclosure stated in pertinent part: 

               The Company is not in compliance with various provisions of the 
               Trust Indentures, however, no Event of Default as defined in the 
               Trust Indentures has been declared by any of the noteholders or 
               trustees. The Company does not expect that an Event of Default 
               will be declared in the near-term under current circumstances 
               because among other matters the Programs are current as to all 
               required interest payments and the Company has successfully 
               concluded six previous Programs.  Furthermore, in the opinion of 
               the Company, the violations can be cured or do not represent 
               material performance or covenant defaults, however, the 
               determination of whether a violation is material is not entirely 
               within the discretion of the Company and no assurance can be given 
               that violations will be cured or that a Principal Amortization Event, 
               as described below will not be declared by the trustees or 
               noteholders.  

               Should an Event of Default be declared with respect to any of the 
               Programs, a Principal Amortization Event would occur under which 
               the respective program would be required to cease purchasing new 
               eligible receivables and to apply all cash received to the principal 
               and interest due on the related notes.  This could negatively affect 
               the Company’s ability to fund its operations and Programs as well as 
               its ability to fund new programs and enter into relationships with 
               new providers.  

       28.     The footnote 8 disclosure was incomplete and misleading because it failed to 
disclose information essential to an understanding of the nature of the indenture violations and that 
those violations constituted events of default.  While the footnote stated that in the opinion of the 
Company the indenture violations in the programs “can be cured or do not represent material 
performance or covenant defaults,” in fact many of the indenture violations could not be cured and 
were significant violations of the indentures.  The disclaimer that “no assurance can be given that 
violations will be cured or that a Principal Amortization Event . . . will not be declared by the 
trustees or noteholders” did not adequately remedy that misleading statement.  Absent the ability 
by NCFE to cure the program defaults resulting from these violations or obtain a waiver of these 
defaults, the indentures required the indenture trustees for the programs to commence a principal 
amortization event for the particular programs in which the defaults occurred.    

                                                9

---------------------Page 10---------------------

         NCFE Terminates PwC as NCFE’s Auditor, and Southworth Communicates With 
                                        the Successor Auditor 

       29.    After PwC completed the 1998 audit, the engagement team performed its annual 
client continuance evaluation of NCFE to determine whether PwC should continue with NCFE as a 
client. As part of this review, Southworth participated in preparing a computer-generated audit risk 
assessment report for NCFE.  During this post-1998 audit assessment process, the risk rating 
generated by PwC’s risk rating system for NCFE’s “Integrity and Ethics” increased from a mid-
risk rating in 1998 to the highest risk rating as a result of the answers Southworth and others gave 
to questions in the report-generation process.  Based in part on Southworth’s answers on the risk 
assessment report and on the 1998 audit, PwC placed NCFE into a “high risk” category for 
purposes of PwC’s risk assessment analysis. 

       30.    In approximately February 2000, NCFE terminated PwC as NCFE’s auditor, citing 
a litigation conflict between one of NCFE’s largest customers and PwC as the reason for 
termination. 

       31.    Upon PwC’s termination as auditor, NCFE hired the Successor Auditor in April 
2000.  As part of the Successor Auditor’s new client acceptance process, the Successor Auditor 
reviewed PwC’s workpapers and interviewed Southworth by telephone.  In this conversation, the 
engagement partner asked Southworth, among other things, whether PwC had concerns about the 
integrity of NCFE’s management.  Southworth responded that there were no such issues.  
Southworth did not respond fully because Southworth did not also disclose any of the following 
matters that were relevant to management integrity: (i) NCFE was making non-permitted loans; (ii) 
NCFE was reporting inaccurately aged receivables and including ineligible receivables on investor 
reports; and (iii) PwC’s internal risk-assessment system rated NCFE’s integrity and ethics as “high 
risk.” 

       32.    After this discussion with Southworth, the Successor Auditor subsequently 
accepted NCFE as a client. 

       E.     Southworth’s Departures From GAAS 

  Failure to Properly Plan and Perform the Audit to Obtain Reasonable Assurance About 

           Whether the Financial Statements Were Free of Material Misstatement


       33.    GAAS requires that the auditor “plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether caused 
by error or fraud.”  (AU § 110, Responsibilities and Functions of the Independent Auditor, at AU 
110.02) In addition, the risk assessment process should “be ongoing throughout the audit” and 
should consider whether the “nature of audit procedures performed may need to be changed to 
obtain evidence that is more reliable or to obtain additional corroborative information.”  (AU § 
316, Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit5
                                                         , at AU 316.33 & .28 (pre-

5 
 AU 316 was modified by Statement on Auditing Standards No. 99, Consideration of Fraud in a Financial 
Statement Audit, which was integrated into AU 316 in October 2002 and applied to audits of financial statements for 
                                              10

---------------------Page 11---------------------

amendment), AU 316.68 & .52 (post-amendment))  Among the actions available to an auditor who 
uncovers evidence of possible fraud or illegal acts are: (1) considering whether the misstatements 
are indicative of fraud (AU 316.34 (pre-amendment), AU 316.75 (post-amendment)) or illegal acts 
(AU § 317, Illegal Acts by Clients, at AU 317.07); (2) evaluating the effect and considering 
implications for other aspects of the audit (AU 316.35 (pre-amendment), AU 316.77 (post-
amendment)); (3) attempting to obtain additional evidential matter (AU 316.35 (pre-amendment), 
AU 316.77 (post-amendment)); (4) confirming significant information concerning the matter with 
the other party to the transaction or with intermediaries, such as banks or lawyers (AU 317.11); (5) 
informing the Audit Committee (AU 316.38 (pre-amendment), AU 316.79 (post-amendment)) or 
equivalent authority (AU 317.17); (6) considering whether to withdraw from the engagement and 
communicating the reasons to the Audit Committee (AU 316.36 (pre-amendment), AU 316.78 
(post-amendment)); (7) consulting with the client’s legal counsel (AU 317.10) and the auditor’s 
own legal counsel (AU 317.22); and (8) issuing an audit report that is not unqualified (AU § 508, 
Reports on Audited Financial Statements, at AU 508.20-.63) 

       34.    Contrary to GAAS, Southworth failed to adequately plan and perform the 1998 
audit after learning of numerous facts that, either standing alone or in the context of other facts 
learned during the audit, warranted heightened scrutiny that should have alerted him to the 
possibility that NCFE’s financial statements were materially misleading in that they contained 
insufficient disclosure of the nature and extent of NCFE’s indenture violations, including non-
permitted loans to financially troubled borrowers, and were not in conformity with GAAP.  In 
auditing the 1998 Financials, Southworth failed to properly consider the implications of the scope 
and significance of the indenture violations.  He also failed to probe NCFE’s basis for asserting in 
footnote 8 that, in the Company’s opinion, the violations were curable or immaterial.     

       35.    Additionally, as described above, during the 1998 audit, Southworth became aware 
of information that should have suggested to him that NCFE had falsely reported in monthly 
investor reports that NCFE was using investor funds exclusively for the purchase of eligible 
receivables. Such information triggered Southworth’s obligations under GAAS to inquire further 
into possible fraud and illegal acts.   

       36.    If Southworth had exercised due care and professional skepticism, he would have 
taken significant steps to assess whether NCFE management was engaged in fraud or illegal acts.  
This failure to properly plan and perform the audit violated AU 316 and AU 317. 

Failure to Obtain Sufficient Competent Evidential Matter, Exercise Due Care, and Exercise 
                                    Professional Skepticism 

       37.    Auditors need to obtain sufficient competent evidence “to afford a reasonable basis 
for an opinion regarding the financial statements under audit.”  (AU § 326, Evidential Matter, at 
AU 326.01) The validity and sufficiency of required evidence depends on the circumstances and 
the auditors’ judgment, but the evidence should be competent, sufficient, and persuasive.  (AU 

periods beginning on or after December 15, 2002.  These amendments did not apply to the 1998 NCFE audit.  
Therefore, all citations to AU 316 will include the pre-amendment citation in effect at the time of the audit, as well 
as the post-amendment citation to the current AU 316. 
                                               11 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

326.02 & .21-.22)  Further, GAAS requires that auditors exercise due professional care in planning 
and performing an audit and in preparing the audit report.  (AU § 230, Due Professional Care in the 
Performance of Work, at AU 230.01)  Due professional care requires that the auditor exercise 
professional skepticism in performing audit procedures and gathering and analyzing audit 
evidence.  (AU 230.07-.08)  “In exercising professional skepticism, the auditor should not be 
satisfied with less than persuasive evidence because of a belief that management is honest.”  (AU 
230.09) “Professional skepticism is an attitude that includes a questioning mind and a critical 
assessment of audit evidence.”  (AU 230.07; see also AU 316.27 (pre-amendment), AU 316.13 
(post-amendment)) 

       38.    As set forth above, during the course of the 1998 audit, Southworth was aware that 
a substantial portion of NCFE’s finance receivables consisted of non-permitted loans instead of 
purchased eligible healthcare receivables.  The non-permitted loans consisted of unsecured loans 
and loans secured by collateral such as real estate, equipment, and artwork.  The audit workpapers 
documented that many of NCFE’s customers had incurred substantial operating losses over a 
period of years and were not capable of meeting or honoring their business obligations without 
continued financial support from NCFE; they were severely financially distressed and were 
dependent on NCFE to fund their negative operating cash flows.  These providers did not possess 
eligible receivables to sell to NCFE, nor did they generally possess other assets of value that could 
serve as collateral.     

       39.    Southworth did not properly assess the adequacy of NCFE’s allowance for losses.  
Southworth failed to properly evaluate how the providers’ negative operating cash flows, negative 
working capital, and negative net worth impaired their ability to repay the non-permitted loans made 
to them.  Based on the evidence available to him, Southworth should have known that NCFE’s 
financial statements failed to reflect a sufficient reserve for material losses arising from the 
unsecured loans made to healthcare providers. 

       40.    Southworth improperly accepted overvalued collateral such as pro forma 
receivables and the Location 99 receivables as an alternative to the purchased accounts receivable 
required by the indentures.  Southworth did not exercise due care or professional skepticism in 
accepting fabricated collateral proffered by NCFE as an appropriate substitute for purchased 
accounts receivable.  He failed to exercise appropriate professional skepticism or obtain sufficient 
competent evidence in support of the values that NCFE ascribed to the alternative collateral.    

       41.    Southworth failed to properly evaluate the risk posed to the collectibility of NCFE’s 
finance receivables by the indenture violations in the programs.  Southworth knew or should have 
known that if the indenture trustees for the programs declared a principal amortization event for the 
programs, NCFE’s ability to continue to fund the providers who owed money to NCFE would 
cease.  Southworth failed to properly consider these matters when evaluating the adequacy of 
NCFE’s allowance for loan losses. 

                                               12

---------------------Page 13---------------------

                        Issuance of an Unqualified Audit Report 

       42.    GAAS requires that the auditor’s report contain an opinion on the financial 
statements taken as a whole and contain a clear-cut indication of the character of the auditor’s 
work.  (AU 508.04)  The auditor can determine that he is able to issue an audit report containing an 
unqualified opinion only if he has conducted his audit in accordance with GAAS and the financial 
statements comply with GAAP.  (AU 508.07 & .22) 

       43.    GAAS further requires that “[t]he [audit] report shall state whether the financial 
statements are presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.”  (AU § 
410, Adherence to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, at AU 410.01)  An auditor’s report 
that financial statements are presented in accordance with GAAP should be based on, among other 
things, whether the financial statements “are informative of matters that may affect their use, 
understanding, and interpretation.”  (AU § 411, The Meaning of “Present Fairly in Conformity 
with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles”, at AU 411.04) 

       44.    Under GAAS, “[i]nformative disclosures in the financial statements are to be 
regarded as reasonably adequate unless otherwise stated in the report.”  (AU § 431, Adequacy of 
Disclosure in Financial Statements, at AU 431.01)  “The presentation of financial statements in 
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles includes adequate disclosure of material 
matters. These matters relate to the form, arrangement, and content of the financial statements and 
their appended notes, including, for example, the terminology used, the amount of detail given, the 
classification of items in the statements, and the bases of amounts set forth.  An independent 
auditor considers whether a particular matter should be disclosed in light of the circumstances and 
facts of which he is aware at the time.”  (AU 431.02) 

       45.    In auditing NCFE’s 1998 Financials, Southworth acted unreasonably in rendering an 
audit report containing an unqualified audit opinion stating that the audit complied with GAAS and 
the financial statements comported with GAAP.  As described above, NCFE’s 1998 Financials did 
not comport with GAAP because they failed to reflect a sufficient reserve for the impairment of 
unsecured loans that NCFE had made to healthcare providers and made materially misleading 
disclosures regarding the NCFE program violations.  As described above and below, Southworth 
did not comply with GAAS in conducting the audit.  

                  Failure to Perform an Adequate Going Concern Analysis 

       46.    AU § 341, The Auditor’s Consideration of an Entity’s Ability to Continue As a 
Going Concern, states in pertinent part that “[t]he auditor has a responsibility to evaluate whether 
there is substantial doubt about the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern for a reasonable 
period of time, not to exceed one year beyond the date of the financial statements being audited.” 
(AU 341.02) Among the conditions and events that may indicate substantial doubt about the 
entity’s ability to continue as a going concern is “default on loan or similar agreements.”  (AU 
341.06) “The auditor’s evaluation is based on his knowledge of relevant conditions and events that 
exist at or have occurred prior to the completion of fieldwork.”  (AU 341.02)  If “the auditor 

                                               13

---------------------Page 14---------------------

concludes that substantial doubt about the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern for a 
reasonable period of time remains, the audit report should include an explanatory paragraph . . . to 
reflect that conclusion.”  (AU 341.12) 

       47.    Southworth mistakenly concluded that NCFE could continue as a going concern, 
despite the material defaults in NCFE’s programs.  In doing so, he failed to adequately evaluate 
whether there was a substantial doubt about NCFE’s ability to continue as a going concern for a 
reasonable period of time when NCFE had acquired a substantial portion of the assets on its 
balance sheet in violation of the indentures.     

       48.    Moreover, to the extent that Southworth relied on management’s representations 
that the indenture trustees and noteholders were aware of the indenture violations, such reliance 
itself was a departure from GAAS, which states in pertinent part that “representations from 
management are part of the evidential matter the independent auditor obtains, but they are not a 
substitute for the application of those auditing procedures necessary to afford a reasonable basis for 
an opinion regarding the financial statements under audit.”  (AU § 333, Management 
Representations, at AU 333.02) 

       49.    The significant and material indenture violations in the programs, and the 
significant impairment of NCFE’s receivables, created a substantial doubt about NCFE’s ability to 
continue as a going concern for a reasonable period of time, and Southworth’s analysis of NCFE’s 
ability to continue as a going concern constituted a departure from GAAS. 

                            Communications with the Successor Auditor 

       50.    Under GAAS, a predecessor auditor “should respond promptly and fully, on the 
basis of known facts, to the successor auditor’s reasonable inquiries.  However, should the 
predecessor auditor decide, due to unusual circumstances such as impending, threatened, or 
potential litigation; disciplinary proceedings; or other unusual circumstances, not to respond fully to 
the inquiries, the predecessor auditor should clearly state that the response is limited.”  (AU § 315, 
Communications Between Predecessor and Successor Auditors, at AU 315.10) 

       51.    Southworth failed to respond fully to the Successor Auditor’s reasonable inquiries 
about NCFE’s management.  In response to the Successor Auditor’s inquiries about NCFE 
management’s integrity, Southworth told the Successor Auditor that there were no issues with 
management integrity.  Southworth did not respond fully because Southworth did not also disclose 
any of the following matters that were relevant to management integrity: (i) NCFE was making 
non-permitted loans; (ii) NCFE was reporting inaccurately aged receivables and including 
ineligible receivables on investor reports; and (iii) PwC’s internal risk-assessment system rated 
NCFE’s integrity and ethics as “high risk.”  Southworth’s failure to respond fully to the Successor 
Auditor’s inquiries constituted a departure from GAAS. 

                                               14

---------------------Page 15---------------------

       F. VIO      LATIONS 

       52.    Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides, in pertinent part, 
that, “[t]he Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before it in any way to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or 
improper professional conduct.” 

       53.    With respect to persons licensed to practice as accountants, such as Southworth, 
“improper professional conduct” under Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) includes, inter alia: 

       (B)    negligent conduct, consisting of (1) a single instance of highly unreasonable conduct 
       that results in a violation of applicable professional standards in circumstances in which an 
       accountant knows, or should know, that heightened scrutiny is warranted, or (2) repeated 
       instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable professional 
       standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice before the Commission. 

       54.    The conduct described above constitutes highly unreasonable conduct that resulted 
in a violation of applicable professional standards in circumstances in which Southworth knew, or 
should have known, that heightened scrutiny was warranted. 

       G.     FINDINGS 

       55.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Southworth engaged in improper 
professional conduct pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     Southworth is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant. 

       B.     After two (2) years from the date of this order, Southworth may request that 
the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of 
the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Southworth’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 

                                               15

---------------------Page 16---------------------

              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 

                      (a)    Southworth, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)    Southworth, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in Southworth’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that Southworth will not receive appropriate supervision;

               (c)           Southworth has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      (d)    Southworth acknowledges his responsibility, as long as he appears 
or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   

       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Southworth to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Southworth’s 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 

 By       the Commission. 

       N                                              ancy M. Morris
       S                                             ecretary 

                                               16

