---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                              STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                       the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  54099 / July 5, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2457 / July 5, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12356
                                                    
 
In the Matter of                                   ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-
                                                   AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS, 
              Craig M. Waggy                       MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                                   IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST 
Respondent.                                        ORDER PURSUANT TO SECTION 
                                                   21C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                                   EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
                                                    
 
 
                                           I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Craig M. Waggy (“Waggy”). 

                                           II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Waggy has submitted an Offer of 
Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of 
these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are 
admitted, Waggy consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, 
Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below. 

                                           III. 
       
      On the basis of this Order and Waggy’s Offer, the Commission finds that1
                                                                          : 
       

                                                 
1
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Waggy’s offer of settlement and are not binding on 
any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 

 A.           SUMMARY

              From September 1997 to May 2002, Waggy was the Chief Financial Officer of TV Guide, 
Inc., which became a subsidiary of Gemstar-TV Guide International, Inc. (“Gemstar”) in July 
2000.  Prior to the merger, Waggy was responsible for TV Guide’s books and records; after the 
merger, Waggy, in consultation with Gemstar’s Chief Financial Officer, was responsible for TV 
Guide’s books and records, which were consolidated into Gemstar’s financial records.   

              From the quarter ended June 30, 2000, through the quarter ended March 31, 2002, Waggy 
caused TV Guide to recognize and record certain revenue and expenses that were subsequently 
determined not to be in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”).  
Waggy reasonably should have known, based on information he had received or could have 
reasonably determined, that the expense or revenue was improperly recorded at TV Guide and that 
revenue would be improperly recognized, recorded, and reported by Gemstar.  As a result, Waggy 
was a cause of Gemstar’s violations of the reporting and record-keeping provisions of the federal 
securities laws. 

 B.           RESPONDENT 

       Craig M. Waggy is a resident of Tulsa, Oklahoma.  Beginning in September 1997, 
Waggy was the CFO of TV Guide, which became a Gemstar subsidiary in July 2000.  In May 
2002, Waggy resigned from TV Guide. 

 C.           RELATED PARTIES 

       Gemstar-TV Guide International, Inc. (“Gemstar”) is a Delaware corporation with its 
principal place of business in Hollywood, California.  Gemstar’s common stock is registered with 
the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and listed on the NASDAQ Stock 
Market.   
        
       TV Guide, Inc. (“TV Guide”) was a public company until Gemstar acquired it in July 
2000.   
        
       D.     FACTS 

  1.                 Background 

       Gemstar was the product of a July 2000 merger between Gemstar, a company that licensed 
an interactive program guide (“IPG”) for televisions and sold advertising on the IPG, and TV 
Guide, a company that published TV Guide magazine and owned various other media properties.  
IPG is a product that allows TV viewers to navigate through, sort, obtain information on, and select 
television programs.  Gemstar reported revenue for IPG advertising as Interactive Platform Sector 
(“IP Sector”) revenue.  From 1999 through the quarter ended September 30, 2002, Gemstar 
materially overstated its financial results by recording revenue not in accordance with GAAP.  
Some of the improperly recorded revenue is discussed below.      

                                              2                                                
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 

                     a.      TV Guide Awards Show Advertising 

       In the quarter ended June 30, 2000, which was the quarter immediately preceding 
Gemstar’s acquisition of TV Guide, Gemstar and TV Guide recognized and reported $1.3 million 
IP Sector revenue and expense, respectively, for IPG advertising relating to the 2000 TV Guide 
Awards Show.  Gemstar issued an invoice to TV Guide for the advertising, which was approved 
for payment by TV Guide’s President and COO.  However, the Awards Show had aired in the 
quarter ended March 31, 2000, and there was no evidence that Gemstar ever ran IPG advertising 
for the TV Guide Awards Show in the quarter ended June 30, 2000.  Because Gemstar and TV 
Guide recorded the $1.3 million in the pre-merger quarter, the revenue, but not the expense, carried 
forward to Gemstar’s financial statements in its Form 10-K for the nine-months ended December 
31, 2000.  This revenue was material to Gemstar’s separately reported IP Sector financial results.   
        
       Gemstar improperly recognized the $1.3 million in advertising revenue for the 2000 
Awards Show because the revenue was neither realized or realizable nor earned.  See SFAC No. 5, 
¶83-84; ARB No. 43, Chapter 1A, ¶1; APB Opinion No. 10, ¶12; SAB No. 101.  TV Guide should 
not have recorded the $1.3 million expense for the Awards Show IPG advertising because no 
economic benefit had been used up in delivering or producing goods, rendering services or other 
activities.  See FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts No. 5, “Recognition and 
Measurement in Financial Statements of Business Enterprises” ¶ 85.  (expenses are generally 
recognized when an entity’s economic benefits are used up in delivering or producing goods or 
rendering services).  Gemstar reversed the recognition of this IP Sector revenue in March 2003. 
        
                     b.      Roush Corp. 
        
       In June 2000, TV Guide entered into an agreement with Roush Corp. (“Roush”), a private 
company that operated a NASCAR racing team, under which TV Guide agreed to provide Roush 
advertising on TV Guide media in exchange for Roush’s agreement to provide TV Guide 
advertising and promotional services.  In the quarter ended December 31, 2000, Gemstar ran IPG 
advertising for Roush, and TV Guide, in consultation with Gemstar’s CFO, recognized, recorded, 
and, through Gemstar, reported $1.4 million in IP Sector revenue from Roush.  This revenue was 
material to Gemstar’s separately reported IP Sector financial results. 
        
       Gemstar improperly recognized the $1.4 million in IP Sector revenue from its non-
monetary transaction with Roush, because the fair value of the IPG advertising was inaccurately 
determined.  See EITF 99-17, Accounting for Advertising Barter Transactions (to determine the 
fair value of a barter transaction, a period not to exceed six months prior to the date of the barter 
transaction should be used to determine whether a historical practice exists of receiving cash for 
similar advertising).  Gemstar reversed the recognition of this IP Sector revenue in March 2003. 
               
                     c.      Fantasy Sports 
        
       In June 2001, Gemstar entered into an agreement with Fantasy Sports Properties, Inc. 
(“Fantasy Sports”), a private company that created and operated Internet-based fantasy sports 
games.  Under the agreement, Gemstar acquired Fantasy Sports’ intellectual property for 
approximately $20.75 million, of which $750,000 was to be paid in cash and $20 million was to be 

                                              3                                                
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 

paid in the form of advertising run by Gemstar at Gemstar’s discretion in 2001.  For the year 2001, 
Gemstar ran IPG advertising for Fantasy Sports and recorded and reported a total of $20 million in 
IP Sector revenue from Fantasy Sports.  No cash payment from Fantasy Sports to Gemstar for the 
$20 million in purported advertising was ever made.  TV Guide, in consultation with Gemstar’s 
CFO and outside auditors, recorded and, through Gemstar, reported the $20 million in 2001.  The 
$20 million in recorded and reported revenue from Fantasy Sports for 2001 was material to 
Gemstar’s separately reported IP Sector financial results.   
        
              Gemstar’s recognition of revenue from the Fantasy Sports transaction throughout 2001 did 
not conform with GAAP.  First, the advertising revenue was never earned because it resulted from 
a transaction that lacked economic substance and was merely a pretext to permit Gemstar to record 
IP Sector revenue.  Second, Gemstar lacked any reasonable basis to determine the fair value of the 
IPG advertising because Gemstar did not have stand-alone IPG advertising transactions with 
unrelated parties from which the company received cash in amounts comparable to those 
recognized in connection with the Fantasy Sports transaction.  See APB Opinion No. 29 (revenue 
from non-monetary transactions must be based on fair value of assets involved).  In November 
2002, Gemstar reversed the recognition of the $20 million in IP Sector revenue from Fantasy 
Sports. 
               
                      d.     Motorola and Tribune 
        
       In October 2000, Gemstar entered into an agreement with Motorola, Inc. (“Motorola”), 
under which Motorola agreed to pay Gemstar $188 million in cash and to allow Gemstar to 
characterize $17.5 million of that as advertising to be run over a 48 month period.  Under the 
agreement, Gemstar retained final discretion as to timing and placement of the advertising.  In 
April 2001, Gemstar and The Tribune Company (“Tribune”) entered into a transaction which 
included, among others, two agreements: (1) a Stock Purchase Agreement in which Tribune paid 
$106 million in cash to Gemstar for the stock of one of TV Guide’s businesses; and (2) an 
Advertising Agreement in which Tribune committed to purchase $100 million of advertising from 
Gemstar over a six-year period, regardless of whether Tribune used the advertising.  The 
documentation for the transaction was split at the direction of Gemstar into these two component 
parts.  Gemstar controlled the timing and placement of the advertising that it ran for Tribune.  In 
2001 and the quarter ended March 31, 2002, Gemstar ran IPG advertising for Motorola and 
Tribune and recognized and reported a total of $34.5 million in IP Sector revenue.  Of the $34.5 
million, TV Guide, in consultation with Gemstar’s CFO, recognized, recorded, and, through 
Gemstar, reported $17.9 million.  This revenue was material to Gemstar’s separately reported IP 
Sector results.   
        
       Gemstar improperly recognized the $34.5 million in IP Sector advertising revenue from 
its transactions with Motorola and Tribune, because the fair value of the IPG advertising 
provided by Gemstar was not realizable, verifiable, or objectively determinable.  See American 
Institute of Certified Public Accountants, Statement of Position 97-2, “Software Revenue 
Recognition,” paragraph 10 (“[i]f an arrangement includes multiple elements, the fee should be 
allocated to the various elements based on vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value, 
regardless of any separate prices stated within the contract for each element”); SAB 101, 
Frequently Asked Questions and Answers, Question 4 (revenue from multi-element transaction 

                                               4                                                 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 

should be allocated to various elements based on fair value that is reliable, verifiable, and 
objectively determinable; prices listed in multi-element arrangement may not be representative 
of fair value because prices of different components of transaction can be altered in negotiations 
and still result in same aggregate consideration).  In March 2003, Gemstar reversed the 
recognition of the $34.5 million as IP Sector revenue and allocated it to other sectors. 

  2.                  Waggy’s Conduct 

              From September 1997 to May 2002, Waggy was the CFO of TV Guide, which became a 
Gemstar subsidiary in July 2000.  After July 2000 TV Guide’s books and records were consolidated 
into Gemstar’s financial statements and reported in Gemstar’s periodic reports.  Waggy was 
responsible for TV Guide’s books and records, including causing TV Guide to record the Awards 
Show expense and the Roush, Fantasy Sports, Motorola, and Tribune revenue.   

       While performing his duties as TV Guide’s CFO, including consulting with Gemstar’s 
CFO and outside auditors, Waggy learned certain information regarding the Awards Show, Roush, 
Fantasy Sports, Motorola, and Tribune transactions and Gemstar’s IPG advertising.  In causing TV 
Guide to record the expense and revenue discussed above, Waggy was negligent in not knowing, 
based on information that he had received and/or could have reasonably determined, that the 
expense or revenue was improperly recognized and recorded at TV Guide and that revenue would 
be improperly recognized, recorded, and reported by Gemstar.  
        
       E.     LEGAL DISCUSSION 
               
              1.     Causing Gemstar’s Violations of the Reporting Provisions of Section 
                     13(a) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 
                     Thereunder
        
       Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder require issuers 
of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act, such as Gemstar, to file with 
the Commission certain annual and quarterly reports.  Implicit in these provisions is the 
requirement that the reports accurately reflect the issuer’s financial condition and operating results.  
See SEC v. IMC Int’l, Inc., 384 F. Supp. 889, 893 (N.D. Tex.), aff’d mem., 505 F.2d 733 (5th Cir. 
1974).  Rule 12b-20 under the Exchange Act further requires the inclusion of any additional 
material information that is necessary to make required statements, in light of the circumstances 
under which they were made, not misleading.  No showing of scienter is required to establish a 
violation of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.  See SEC v. Savoy Indus., Inc., 587 F.2d 1149, 
1167 (D.C. Cir. 1978).  Moreover, Regulation S-X requires that financial statements filed with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act be prepared in accordance with 
GAAP.  See Peritus Software Services, Inc., Exchange Act Rel. No. 42673 (Apr. 13, 2001) (settled 
proceeding).  Otherwise, such financial statements shall be presumed inaccurate. 
 
       Gemstar committed primary reporting violations by filing with the Commission periodic 
reports for 2000, 2001, and the first quarter of 2002 that improperly reported Awards Show, 
Roush, Fantasy Sports, Motorola, and Tribune IP Sector revenue.  Waggy was a cause of those 
reporting violations, because he caused TV Guide to record IP Sector revenue from, or expenses 
for, the Awards Show, Roush, Fantasy Sports, Motorola, and Tribune, and he was negligent in 

                                               5                                                
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 

not knowing, based on information he had received and/or could have determined through 
additional inquiry, that the revenue or expense was improperly recognized and recorded at TV 
Guide and would be improperly reported by Gemstar.   2
                                                        

              2.      Causing Gemstar’s Violations of the Record-Keeping Provisions of 
                      Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Committing Violations of 
                      Rule 13b2-1 Thereunder 

       Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires reporting companies registered 
pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act to “make and keep books, records, and accounts, 
which in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions . . . of the issuer.”  No 
showing of scienter is required to establish a violation of Section 13(b)(2)(A).  SEC v. World-
Wide Coin Invs., Ltd., 567 F. Supp. 724, 751 (N.D. Ga. 1983).  Rule 13b2-1 under the Exchange 
Act also prohibits any person from directly or indirectly falsifying any book, record, or account 
described in Section 13(b)(2)(A).   
        
       Gemstar committed primary violations of the record-keeping provisions of Section 
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act by improperly recording Awards Show, Roush, Fantasy Sports, 
Motorola, and Tribune IP Sector revenue.  Waggy was a cause of those record-keeping violations 
and violated Rule 13b2-1 under the Exchange Act, because he caused TV Guide to record IP 
Sector revenue from, or expenses for, the Awards Show, Roush, Fantasy Sports, Motorola, and 
Tribune, and he was negligent in not knowing, based on information he had received and/or 
could have determined through additional inquiry, that the revenue or expense was improperly 
recognized and recorded at TV Guide and Gemstar.   
        

                                                 
2
 Under Section 21C(a) of the Exchange Act, the standard for establishing that a person was a 
culpable cause of another person’s violation is that the person engaged in an act or omission that 
he “knew or should have known would contribute” to the primary violation.  This standard 
requires negligence for causing the type of non-scienter violations at issue in this case. KPMG 
Peat Marwick, Exchange Act Rel. No. 43862 (June 19, 2001), aff’d, KPMG v. SEC, 289 F. 3d 
109 (D.C. Cir. 2002). 

                                               6                                                 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 

                                                            IV. 
         
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Waggy’s Offer.      3
 
              Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that Waggy cease and desist from causing any 
violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and 
Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder and committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Rule 13b2-1 thereunder. 
 
        By the Commission. 
         
               
              Nancy M. Morris 
              Secretary 

                                                 
3
 Waggy has agreed to pay a $25,000 civil penalty in a civil action in the Central District of 
California entitled SEC v. Yuen, et al., Case No. CV 03-4376 MRP (PLAx). 

                                                         7                                                           
