---------------------Page 1---------------------

                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                          before the 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  54994 / December 21, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 2528 / December 21, 2006                           
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12515 
____________________________________ 
                                           :  
In the Matter of                                  : ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND- 
                                           :      DESIST PROCEEDINGS, MAKING            
Interstate Bakeries Corporation,            :     FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE- 
                                           :      AND-DESIST ORDER PURSUANT TO              
       Respondent.                               : SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                           :      EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
____________________________________: 
 
 
 
                                              I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission deems it appropriate that cease-and-desist  
proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Interstate Bakeries Corporation (“Respondent,” “IBC,” or 
“the Company”).  
 
                                             II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and over the subject matter of 
these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting 
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order 
Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below. 

 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
                                                 III. 
                                                    
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:      1 
                                                                                           
 
                                          RESPONDENT  

       1.      Interstate Bakeries Corp. (“IBC”), a Delaware corporation headquartered in 
Kansas City, Missouri, is one of the nation’s largest wholesale bakers and distributors of fresh 
baked breads and snack cakes, selling Wonder, Dolly Madison, Hostess, and other well-known 
brands.  On September 22, 2004, IBC voluntarily filed a bankruptcy petition seeking relief under 
chapter 11 of title 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, and currently is planning to 
reorganize.2 
               

       IBC’s common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of 
the Exchange Act until it was delisted from  the NYSE in September 2004, after the Company 
filed the bankruptcy petition.  Since that time, IBC’s stock has been deemed registered under 
Section 12(g).  It currently is quoted in the Pink Sheets. 

                                           OVERVIEW   
 
       2.      As described below, IBC violated the record-keeping, internal controls and 
reporting provisions of the Exchange Act in connection with its financial reporting of its 
workers’ compensation reserves and, consequently, its earnings during the second and third 
quarters of fiscal 2004.3
                           During those periods, IBC’s then principal financial officer disregarded 
the estimates of its future workers’ compensation liabilities provided by its insurance consultant, 
on which IBC historically had relied for this critical piece of its workers’ compensation reserve 
analysis.  Instead of recording the $30 to $32 million in additional workers’ compensation 
reserves that IBC’s insurance consultant had estimated and confirmed with an independent 
actuarial firm, the principal financial officer set IBC’s quarterly workers’ compensation reserve 
for the fiscal 2004 second and third quarters using obsolete information and estimates derived 
from a methodology that he had been advised was no longer considered reliable.   
        
       3.      The principal financial officer, whose quarterly reserve determinations were not 
reviewed by other IBC personnel, failed to disclose to IBC’s accountants, its board, its Audit 
Committee, its auditor, and the public that IBC had disregarded its consultant’s estimates in 
                                                 
1 
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any   
other person or entity in this  or any other proceeding.  
2 
        In re Interstate Bakeries Corporation, Case No. 04-45814-jwv11 (W.D. Mo.).  
 
3 
       IBC ends its fiscal year on the Saturday closest to   the last day of May.  Most of IBC’s reporting years 
contain 52 weeks of operating results, while every fifth or sixth year includes 53 weeks.  In addition, each quarter of    
its fiscal year represents a period of 12 weeks, except the third quarter, which covers 16 weeks, and the fourth  
quarter of any 53-week year, which covers 13 weeks. 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

setting the second and third quarter 2004 reserves.  As a result, IBC’s financial statements 
contained in its Forms 10-Q for the fiscal second and third quarters 2004 understated the 
Company’s reserves by at least $30 million.  Because IBC failed to record the expense necessary   
to increase the reserve, the Company materially overstated its fiscal second quarter pre-tax 
income in its Form 10-Q for the period ended November 15, 2003, and its cumulative fiscal third 
quarter pre-tax income in its Form 10-Q for the period ended March 6, 2004.     4 
                                                                                   

                                         BACKGROUND  

       4.      IBC historically has self-insured for its estimated workers’ compensation 
liabilities.  As a self-insurer, IBC is required to accrue a reserve for the potential losses 
associated with its workers’ compensation self-insurance program when the loss contingency is 
probable and the Company can estimate the amount of the loss.  See Statement of Financial 
Accounting Standards No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, (“FAS 5”).  The nature of the 
contingency, the amount of the accrual, and, if appropriate, the possibili ty of further losses 
should be disclosed if doing so is necessary to prevent the financial statements from being 
misleading.  Even if the loss contingency is reasonably possible, rather than probable, FAS 5 
requires IBC to disclose in its financial statements the possibility of the additional loss, the 
nature of the loss contingency, and an estimate of the possible loss or range of loss. 5 
                                                                                           

       5.      From at least the mid-1990s through fiscal 2004, IBC’s principal financial officer, 
or de facto chief financial officer,6
                                     set IBC’s workers’ compensation reserve quarterly relying 
upon an actuarially-based estimate from the Company’s insurance consultant.  No one at IBC 
substantively reviewed the principal financial officer’s quarterly workers’ compensation reserve 
determination, or the methodology or rationale for his reserve determination.   

       6.      Toward the end of fiscal 2003, in early May 2003, IBC’s insurance consultant  
advised the principal financial officer that because of recent anomalies  in IBC’s loss experiences, 
the insurance consultant’s methodology for estimating IBC’s future liability for workers’ 
compensation claims potentially was no longer reliable.  The insurance consultant further 
advised that even under this possibly unreliable methodology, IBC likely had a $16 million 
deficit in its reserve accrual, and that, if other methodologies were used to calculate the reserve, 
IBC’s reserve deficit could be substantially higher. 

                                                 
4 
       On December 20, 2006, the Commission filed a dist rict court action against IBC’s former principal 
financial officer seeking a permanent injunction, civil penalties and additional relief.   See Litigation Rel. No. 19951   
(December 20, 2006). 
 
5 
       A loss is probable if it is likely to occur, and it is  reasonably possible if the chance of the loss occurring is  
more than remote but less than likely.  FAS 5, ¶3.   
6 
       Despite financial challenges in fiscal 2003, IBC postponed hiring a new CFO until fiscal 2005 after its 
former CFO retired in May 2003, in part because a qualified CFO would be expe nsive and would skew the   
Company’s compensation scale.   

 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       7.     At the same time, IBC’s auditors scrutinized the reserve and developed their own 
estimates as part of the fiscal 2003 audit.  This action ultimately prompted IBC to add $15 
million to its workers’ compensation reserve in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, which brought 
the total to approximately $103.6 million, or the low end of the range that the auditor had 
determined was acceptable.  In July 2003, IBC announced that it would report $.61 per share 
earnings in fiscal 2003, down substantially from  the prior year’s earnings of $1.36 per share, due 
in part to the workers’ compensation reserve increase.  IBC’s stock price fell more than 10% 
after the July 14 announcement.    

          IBC UNDERSTATES ITS WORKERS’ COMPENSATION RESERVE  

       8.     In late July or early August 2003, the insurance consultant, in conjunction with 
discussing its estimate of IBC’s workers’ compensation liability for the fiscal first quarter 2004, 
reiterated its concerns about the reliability of the methodology it was using.  The report itself 
continued its reliance on the same methodology, but the insurance consultant again advised  
IBC’s principal financial officer that it was considering changing methodologies, and indicated 
that if a different methodology was used, IBC’s workers’ compensation liability could be 
considerably higher than the then current reserve. 

       9.     In early November 2003, IBC’s insurance consultant advised IBC’s principal 
financial officer that, consistent with the concerns it had expressed in the two prior quarterly 
meetings, it had changed the methodology it used to estimate IBC’s workers’ compensation 
reserve.  The insurance consultant indicated that it estimated IBC’s workers’ compensation 
reserve should be within a range from $134 million to $152.2 million.  The low end of this 
estimate was approximately $32 million higher than IBC’s fiscal first quarter 2004 reserve.  The 
principal financial officer did not accept the insurance consultant’s report for the quarter, in part 
because of concerns about the impact of the estimate on IBC.  Instead, the insurance consultant 
and the principal financial officer agreed that the insurance consultant would hire an actuarial 
firm to substantiate its estimate. 

       10.    By at least early December 2003, the insurance consultant informed the principal 
financial officer that it had confirmed its new, much higher estimate with an independent 
actuarial firm.  The principal financial officer failed to disclose the insurance consultant’s change 
of methodology, its new, much higher workers’ compensation reserve estimate, or the 
independent confirmation of the consultant’s new estimate to IBC accountants, the Company’s 
board, its Audit Committee, or its auditor.  As a result, IBC failed to disclose these material facts 
or contingencies to the investing public in its fiscal second quarter 2004 Form 10-Q or in its 
second quarter earnings releases, which were filed with the Commission on a Form 8-K.   

       11.    Instead, IBC set its workers’ compensation reserve at approximately $101.6 
million, or $32 million below the low end of the insurance consultant’s estimate range.  If, 
consistent with the consultant’s estimate, IBC had recorded a current period expense to increase 
its reserve by the additional $32 million, the Company’s pretax earnings for the period would 
have been reduced by a corresponding amount.  Consequently, IBC reported fiscal second 
quarter 2004 pretax income of $11.25 million when it should have reported a substantial loss.  

 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       12.     In early February 2004, during IBC’s fiscal third quarter 2004, IBC’s insurance 
consultant, after updating  the numbers to reflect the most recent quarter, advised the Company’s 
principal financial officer that its workers’ compensation reserve estimate essentially had not 
changed.  Later in February 2004, the insurance consultant provided IBC with a reserve estimate 
of $137 million.  The principal financial officer again failed to disclose the insurance 
consultant’s change of methodology, its new, much higher workers’ compensation reserve 
estimate, or the independent confirmation of the consultant’s new estimate to IBC’s accountants, 
its board, its Audit Committee, or its auditor.  As a result, IBC again failed to disclose these 
material facts or contingencies to the investing public in its fiscal third quarter 2004 Form 10-Q 
or in its third quarter earnings releases, filed on Form 8-K.   

       13.     IBC instead set the third quarter fiscal 2004 workers’ compensation reserve at 
$107 million, approximately $30 million below the low end of the most recent estimate provided 
by its insurance consultant.  As a result, IBC materially understated its workers’ compensation 
reserve, and the company reported pre-tax income of $15,394,000 for the 40 weeks ended March 
6, 2004, when it should have reported a substantial loss. 

       14.     During the fiscal second and third quarters of 2004, IBC was close to violating its 
debt covenants, and likely would have violated those covenants had it used its insurance 
consultant’s workers’ compensation reserve estimate in setting its reserve for those periods.    

       15.     In early May 2004, IBC’s principal financial officer advised IBC’s Audit 
Committee that management was reviewing the workers’ compensation reserve for a possible 
year-end charge in the fourth quarter, without disclosing the potential magnitude of the issue.  In 
late May 2004, IBC management advised the board, the Audit Committee, and IBC’s auditor of 
the workers’ compensation reserve issue and the magnitude of the anticipated reserve increase.  
Upon learning this information, the IBC board reacted by directing disclosure of the issue to the 
public and commencing an internal investigation, first by company counsel and then by the 
Audit Committee, as advised by independent counsel.  On June 3, 2004, IBC announced that it 
had increased its workers’ compensation reserve during fiscal 2004 with a charge to pretax 
income of approximately $40 million, and that it was reviewing whether all or part of the charge 
related to earlier quarters, thus necessitating a restatement of fiscal 2004 quarterly results of 
operations. 

       16.     IBC has failed to timely file Forms 10-K for fiscal 2004, 2005, and 2006, and has 
failed to timely file Forms 10-Q for each of its fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006 quarters.  

                                        VIOLATIONS  
 
       17.     As a result of the conduct described above, IBC violated Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 
thereunder.  Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to file periodic reports with the 
Commission containing such information as the Commission prescribes by rule.  Exchange Act 
Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 require issuers to file annual and quarterly reports, respectively, and 
Rule 13a-11 requires issuers to file current reports.  Under Exchange Act Rule 12b-20, such 

 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

reports must contain, in addition to disclosures expressly required by statute and rule, such other 
information as is necessary to ensure that the statements made are not materially misleading 
under the circumstances.  Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act require 
issuers to make and keep books, records and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and 
fairly reflect the transactions and disposition of the assets of the issuer and to maintain an 
adequate system of internal controls, respectively. 
 
                                                       IV. 
 
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in IBC’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby  ORDERED that Respondent IBC cease and desist from                                               
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of  Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder. 
  
 
        By the Commission. 
 
 
          
       Nancy                                                            M. Morris
       Secretary                                                          

 
 
