---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                       the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  52006 / July 11, 2005 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2274 / July 11, 2005 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.   3-11977 
 
                                              ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
In the Matter of                              PROCEEDINGS, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                              IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
Foamex International, Inc.,                   PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF THE 
                                              SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Respondent. 
 
 
 
 
                                                
 
                                           I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Foamex International, Inc. (“Foamex”). 
                                             
                                          II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Foamex has submitted an Offer of 
Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose 
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are 
admitted, Foamex consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, 
Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
 

 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Foamex’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
                                           Respondent 
 
        1.            Foamex, a Delaware corporation based in Linwood, Pennsylvania, 
manufactures and distributes flexible polyurethane and advanced polymer foam products.  
Foamex’s common stock is registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and is traded on 
the NASDAQ National Market System. 
        
                                            Summary
        
              2.           This matter involves Foamex’s need to address deficiencies in its internal 
accounting controls.  Since at least 1999, Foamex’s auditors have advised the company that these 
internal control deficiencies created “reportable conditions.”1
                                                              In particular, the auditors identified 
internal control deficiencies in Foamex’s: (i) information technology systems; (ii) inventory 
procedures, processes and systems; and (iii) preparation of quarterly financial reports.  In addition, 
since 1999, Foamex restated many of its interim financial reports because of material errors in its 
financial statements which resulted, in part, from its internal control issues.  For example, in 
January 2004, Foamex had to restate its financial reports for the first three quarters of 2003 due to 
an overstatement of certain inventory.  Foamex, under new management, has engaged in 
meaningful efforts to remediate the reportable conditions.  However, the repeated findings of its 
auditors with respect to certain reportable conditions show that Foamex did not undertake such 
remediation on a timely basis.   
 
                                           Discussion 
   
               3.           Through a series of acquisitions between 1983 and 2001, Foamex’s 
operations expanded to encompass over fifty manufacturing and distribution facilities in the United 
States, Canada and Mexico.  The companies Foamex acquired utilized different accounting 
procedures, computer systems and software, and Foamex did not integrate all of these systems.  
These differing systems, particularly those related to inventory, created inconsistencies in the 
company’s books and records, which the company did not reconcile in a timely manner.  
 
               4.           In August 1999, Foamex’s auditor notified Foamex’s Audit Committee that 
Foamex needed to improve its internal controls.  In particular, the auditor reported that Foamex’s 
systems for the preparation of interim financial information did not provide an adequate basis for 
the auditor to complete, prior to certain filing deadlines, its reviews of Foamex’s interim financial 
statements. 

                                                 
1
 A reportable condition is a significant deficiency in the design or operation of an internal 
control, which could adversely affect the organization’s ability to record, process, summarize 
and report financial data consistent with the assertions of management in the financial 
statements. AICPA Statement on Auditing Standards No. 60. 
                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
               5.           In May 2000, Foamex’s auditor issued a Report to Management in 
connection with its audit of Foamex’s financial statements for the year ended December 31, 1999.  
In that report, Foamex’s auditor identified reportable conditions and recommended that Foamex:  
(i) make significant improvements in the control environment and reporting practices of Foamex’s 
foreign operations; (ii) conduct a comprehensive analysis of financial results on a quarterly basis; 
(iii) improve inventory reporting; and (iv) develop a comprehensive information technology (“IT”) 
strategy, including an enterprise-wide security program. 
 
                            6.           In February and March 2001, in connection with its audit of Foamex’s 
financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2000, Foamex’s auditor advised Foamex’s 
Audit Committee of reportable conditions similar to those above.  In June 2001, Foamex’s auditor 
resigned and, in July 2001, Foamex retained a new auditor. 
 
  7. Although Foamex’s prior manageme                       nt informed the Commission’s staff in 
mid-2002 that the company was initiating prompt corrective actions to address its internal control 
deficiencies, its new auditor issued a report to Foamex’s Audit Committee in March 2003.  The 
report identified reportable conditions similar to those previously identified by Foamex’s prior 
auditor: (i) oversight of financial reporting by international subsidiaries; (ii) inventory procedures, 
processes and systems; (iii) integration of IT systems; (iv) access and security for IT systems; and 
(v) process for reviewing and approving journal entries.   
 
                            8.           In January 2004, Foamex restated its financial reports for the first three 
quarters of 2003 because it had overstated its in-transit raw material inventory.  This error, which 
has been corrected, occurred during Foamex’s implementation of a new system to calculate the 
value of certain in-transit raw material inventory.  In particular, the new system failed to apply 
certain rebates, resulting in inaccurate inventory values.   
 
                            9.           In March 2004, Foamex’s auditor issued a report to Foamex’s Audit 
Committee identifying four reportable conditions, three of which had been previously identified.  
The reportable conditions pertained to: (i) the integration of IT systems; (ii) access and security for 
IT systems; (iii) inventory procedures, processes and systems; and (iv) quarterly financial 
reporting.   
 
               10.        In April 2004, Foamex’s Audit Committee retained a new auditor.  Foamex, 
under the mandate of a new management team, has initiated steps to remediate the reportable 
conditions.  It has strengthened financial management through the hiring of additional financial and 
accounting personnel and continues to implement an enterprise-wide IT system.  Foamex has also 
retained, through its counsel, a special consultant on internal accounting controls.  Nevertheless, 
the repeated observations of the auditors and Foamex’s history of restating its interim financial 
reports show that Foamex did not devote the appropriate managerial effort and other resources to 
remediate its deficient internal controls, which were identified as reportable conditions in 1999.  As 
a result, Foamex encountered undue delays in implementing an effective remediation program.  
        
        

                                                 3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                            Violations 
 
               11.        As a result of the conduct described above, Foamex violated: 
 
               a.           Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to 
               file periodic and other reports with the Commission containing such information as 
               the Commission's rules prescribe, and Rule 13a-13, promulgated pursuant to Section 
               13(a) of the Exchange Act, which requires issuers to file accurate quarterly reports 
               with the Commission on a Form 10-Q. 
                
               b.           Section l3(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, which requires all reporting 
               companies to make and keep books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable 
               detail, accurately reflect the transactions and dispositions of assets; and  
                
               c.           Section l3(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, which requires all reporting 
               companies to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls 
               sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as 
               necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally 
               accepted accounting principles and to maintain accountability of assets. 
  
                                          Undertakings
                                                  
  12. Foamex undertakes to: 
 
               a.           Cooperate fully with its auditors in connection with their audit of 
               Foamex’s financial statements, which will include, in accordance with 
               Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 15 U.S.C. § 7262, a review and 
               evaluation of Foamex management’s assessment of internal control over financial 
               reporting as well as a report containing an opinion on the effectiveness of 
               Foamex’s internal control over financial reporting.  Foamex shall, on a timely 
               basis, provide the auditors with access to its files, books, records and personnel as 
               reasonably requested for the review.  In connection therewith, the auditors will 
               issue a written report (“Section 404 Report”) to Foamex’s Audit Committee with 
               regard to whether it concurs with management’s assessment of internal control 
               over financial reporting and will address any significant deficiencies, as defined in 
               Auditing Standard No. 2 of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board,        2
                                                                                                 
                                                 
2
   A significant deficiency is a control deficiency, or combination of control 
deficiencies, that adversely affects the company's ability to initiate, authorize, record, 
process, or report external financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles such that there is more than a remote likelihood that a 
misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements that is more than 
inconsequential will not be prevented or detected.  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board 
Bylaws and Rules – Standards – AS2 (Mar. 9, 2004).    
 
 
                                                 4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

              that it has identified and that were not identified and remediated by management.  
              Promptly after receipt of the Section 404 Report, Foamex’s Audit Committee will 
              forward the Section 404 Report to the Commission’s staff and to Foamex’s 
              Special Consultant, which was previously retained through its counsel. 

              b.      Require the Special Consultant to review the Section 404 Report and issue 
              a written report (“Special Consultant Report”) to Foamex’s Audit Committee and 
              the Commission’s staff.  The Special Consultant Report shall include 
              recommendations relating to modifications of, or additions to, internal control 
              over financial reporting to address the significant deficiencies identified in the 
              Section 404 Report, as well as procedures to implement such modifications or 
              additions.  The Special Consultant Report shall be issued no later than 90 days 
              following the issuance of the Section 404 Report or such other date mutually 
              agreed upon by Foamex and the Commission’s staff after consultation with the 
              Special Consultant.   

              c.      Adopt all recommendations in the Special Consultant Report, provided, 
              however, that within 30 days after the Special Consultant delivers the Special 
              Consultant Report, Foamex shall in writing advise the Special Consultant and the 
              Commission’s staff of any recommendations that it considers unduly burdensome, 
              impractical or costly.  Foamex need not adopt such recommendations at that time 
              but shall propose in writing an alternative policy, procedure, or system designed 
              to achieve the same objective or purpose.  As to any recommendation on which 
              Foamex and the Special Consultant do not agree, such parties shall attempt in 
              good faith to reach an agreement within 30 days after Foamex delivers the written 
              advice.  In the event Foamex and the Special Consultant are unable to agree on an 
              alternative proposal, Foamex shall abide by the determinations of the Special 
              Consultant.   

              d.      Require the Special Consultant to review Foamex’s progress in correcting 
              significant deficiencies, if any, identified in the Section 404 Report and to provide 
              a written report to the Audit Committee and the Commission’s staff on the status 
              of Foamex’s remediation efforts each calendar quarter thereafter until the reported 
              deficiencies have been remediated, provided that such remediation efforts shall be 
              completed no later than 18 months from the date that Foamex receives the Special 
              Consultant Report. 

              e.      For good cause shown, and upon receipt of a timely application from the 
              Special Consultant or Foamex, the Commission’s staff may extend any of the 
              procedural dates set forth above. 

                                  Foamex’s Remedial Efforts 
                                                 
              13.        In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial 
acts undertaken by Foamex’s new management and cooperation afforded the Commission’s 
staff. 
                                               5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                                                                          IV. 
                                                                             
           In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Foamex’s Offer. 
 
           Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
              A.          Foamex cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future 
violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchan                                      ge Act and Rule 13a-13 
thereunder. 
  
              B.          Foamex shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in Section III.12. above. 
 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Jonathan G. Katz 
       Secretary 

                                                                           6 
