---------------------Page 1---------------------

                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  

                                          Before the 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

             

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No.  53125 / January 13, 2006 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No.   2363 / January 13, 2006  

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-11091 

                            : 
                           : 
In the Matter of              ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           : 
                              REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
                           : 
William T. Fricke, CPA        BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT  
                           : 
                           : 
                           
        

       On April 24, 2003, William T. Fricke ("Fricke") was denied the privilege of appearing or 
practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of a settled order instituting public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings against Fricke pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules 
of Practice.1
             Fricke consented to the entry of the order, and imposition of the remedial sanctions 
set forth in the order, without admitting or denying the findings therein, except as to the 
Commission’s jurisdiction and the subject matter of the proceedings. 

       From 1989 until August 1998, Fricke was a partner at BKR Metcalf Davis (“Metcalf 
Davis”) and he served as the concurring partner in Metcalf Davis’s audit of Chancellor  
Corporation’s (“Chancellor”) 1998 financial statements.  According to the Commission’s order, 
Fricke and the engagement partner allegedly engaged in improper professional conduct in 
auditing Chancellor’s 1998 financial statements and caused Chancellor to materially overstate its 
revenue, income and assets for 1998.  In addition, the Commission alleged that Fricke and the 
engagement partner willfully violated Section 10A of the Exchange Act by failing to design 
appropriate audit procedures to determine whether or not Chancellor’s senior management had 
committed fraud and by their failure to inform  Chancellor’s audit committee of the suspected 
fraud. 
        

                                                 
1 
 See  Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 1762, dated April 24, 2003.  Fricke was permitted,   
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after two years upon making certain showings. 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

       This order is issued in response to Fricke's application for reinstatement to practice before 
the Commission as an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial 
statements required to be filed with the Commission and as an independent accountant. 
 
       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Fricke 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity. 
        
       In his capacity as an independent accountant Fricke attests that he will comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board 
(“PCAOB”), including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, 
concurring partner reviews and quality control standards. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”     2
                                                              This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Fricke, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the April 24, 2003 order denying him  
the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 
and that Fricke, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in his 
practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission, and that Fricke, by registering with the PCAOB and undertaking to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the PCAOB, including, but not limited to, 
all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
control standards, in his practice before the Commission as an independent accountant, has 
shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3)  
of this section may be made at any time, and the applic ant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated                         
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i).                        
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
William T. Fricke, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                            
                                            
                                            
                                           Nancy M. Morris 
                                           Secretary 
