---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                         the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  57234 / January 30, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2778 / January 30, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12942 

                                                 : 
                                                 : 
        In the Matter of                         :     ORDER INSTITUTING 
                                                 :     ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
               DAVID B. DUNCAN, CPA,             :     PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                 :     COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
               Respondent.                       :     PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                                 :     IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                 : 
                                                 : 

                                              I. 

       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against David 
B. Duncan (“Respondent” or “Duncan”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules 
of Practice.1 

                                             II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.4 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 

1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 

       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by order, . . . 
suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has been by name . . . permanently 
enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the 
Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of 
the rules and regulations thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 

              1.      Duncan, age 48, resides in Houston, Texas.  Duncan served as the global 
engagement partner for Arthur Andersen LLP’s (“Andersen) audits of Enron Corp. (“Enron”) from 
1997 until January 2002. During the relevant time period, Duncan was a certified public accountant 
licensed in the State of Texas.  As the global engagement partner, Duncan was ultimately 
responsible for determining whether an unqualified opinion should be issued within the auditor’s 
report.   
              2.      Enron was an Oregon corporation with its principal place of business in 
Houston, Texas.  During the relevant time period, Enron’s common stock was registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) 
and traded on the New York Stock Exchange.  Among other operations, Enron was the nation’s 
largest natural gas and electric marketer, with reported annual revenue of more than $100 billion.  In 
2000, Enron rose to number seven on the Fortune 500 list of public companies.  By December 2, 
2001, when it filed for bankruptcy, Enron’s stock price had dropped in less than one year from more 
than $80 per share to less than $1. 

              3.      Andersen once was one of the so-called “Big Five” accounting firms in the 
United States and had its headquarters in Chicago, Illinois.  Andersen personnel performed work for 
Enron during the relevant time period in several cities, including Chicago, Houston and London.   

              4.      On January 28, 2008, the Commission filed a complaint against Duncan in 
Securities and Exchange Commission v. David B. Duncan, Civil Action No. 4:08-CV-00314 (S.D. 
Tex.).  On January 29, 2008, the court entered its Final Judgment against Duncan, which, among 
other things, permanently enjoined Duncan, by consent, from violating Section 10(b) of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder. 

              5.      The Commission’s complaint alleged that Enron’s senior executives engaged 
in and presided over a wide-ranging scheme to defraud the investing public by materially 
overstating the company’s earnings and cash flows, and concealing debt in periodic reports filed 
with the Commission.  The fraudulent scheme was carried out through a variety of complex 
structured transactions, off-balance sheet financings, related party transactions, misleading 
disclosures, and a widespread abuse of GAAP.  As the global engagement partner responsible for 
the Enron audits, Duncan was ultimately responsible for determining whether an unqualified 
opinion should be issued within the auditor’s report.  The complaint also alleged that for years 1998 
through 2000, Duncan was reckless in not knowing, that the unqualified audit reports he signed on 
behalf of Andersen were materially false and misleading.  These auditor’s reports were part of 
Enron’s annual reports on Forms 10-K filed with the Commission in 1998, 1999 and 2000. 

                                               2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                              IV. 


       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Duncan’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that Duncan is suspended 
from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant.

 By       the Commission. 

       N                                             ancy M. Morris
       S                                            ecretary 

                                               3

