---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                 STATES OF AMERICA 
 before                                            the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  53662 / April 17, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2416 / April 17, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12264
                                              
      :  
 :                                                   
 :                                                    
       In the Matter of                      :             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                    :             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
    DALE G. RASMUSSEN,                ESQ., :             102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                   :             PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
    Respondent.                         :     IMPO         SING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                          :      
                                          :      
____________________________________ :              
                                                     
 
                                                I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Dale G. 
Rasmussen (“Respondent” or “Rasmussen”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1
                     
                                                  
                                               II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . attorney . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
                     1.           Dale G. Rasmussen, age 46, is and has been an attorney licensed to practice 
in the State of Oregon.  He served as a Senior Counsel in Enron North America’s (ENA) West 
Power Origination Legal Group, a business unit of Enron Corp. (Enron), from October 1997 until 
February 2002. 
        
                     2.           Enron was, at all relevant times, an Oregon corporation with its principal 
place of business in Houston, Texas.  Until its bankruptcy filing in December 2001, Enron was the 
seventh largest corporation in the United States based on reported revenue.  In the previous ten 
years, Enron had evolved from a regional natural gas provider to a commodity trader of natural 
gas, electricity, and other physical commodities with retail operations in energy and other products.  
The Company also created and traded financial products.  ENA was Enron’s largest and most 
profitable business unit and included Enron’s wholesale merchant business related to natural gas 
and power across North America, including trading, marketing and new asset development 
activities in that region.  At all relevant times, the common stock of Enron was registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) 
and traded on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 
                     3.           On March 27, 2006, the Commission filed a complaint against Rasmussen 
in Securities and Exchange Commission v. David T. Leboe and Dale G. Rasmussen     , Civil Action 
No. H-06-1020 (S.D. Tex.).  On March 28, 2006, the court entered a final judgment permanently 
enjoining Rasmussen, by consent, from future violations of Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5 and 13b2-1 thereunder, and aiding and abetting violations of 
Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 
13a-13 thereunder.  Rasmussen was also ordered to pay $1 in disgorgement and a $30,000 civil 
money penalty. 
 
                     4.           The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Rasmussen 
engaged in a fraudulent scheme to improperly accelerate the recognition of revenue from the sale 
of a construction contract which resulted in Enron filing materially false and misleading financial 
statements in the company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 
2000, and in the company’s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the third quarter of fiscal year 
2000.  The Complaint alleged that Rasmussen, the primary Enron in-house attorney working on 
the sale, negotiated various terms of the transaction and drafted several of the key documents.  

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

While doing this, he worked closely with Enron’s accountants to ensure that the wording in the 
legal documents did not jeopardize ENA’s efforts to circumvent Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles.  In addition, the complaint alleged that Rasmussen knew that undocumented side 
agreements relating to the sale were being concealed from Enron’s independent auditors and that 
he actively sought to keep others from disclosing information to the auditors about these side 
agreements. 
  
                                                     IV. 
                                                       
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Rasmussen’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, effective immediately, that Rasmussen is 
suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an attorney for three years.  
Furthermore, before appearing and resuming practice before the Commission, Rasmussen must 
submit an affidavit to the Commission’s Office of the General Counsel truthfully stating, under 
penalty of perjury, that he has complied with this Order, that he is not subject to any suspension or 
disbarment as an attorney by a court of the United States or of any state, territory, district, 
commonwealth, or possession, and that he has not been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor 
involving moral turpitude as set forth in Rule 102(e)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

                                                      3 
