---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED                               STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                         the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.   53380 / February 27, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2385 / February 27, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.   3-12220 
 
                                                 
In the Matter of                                ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
GREGORY G. NELSON, CPA,                         PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
Respondent.                                     MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                                REMEDIAL SANCTIONS  
 
 
 
                                             I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Gregory G. Nelson, CPA 
(“Respondent” or “Nelson”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.1
                                               
                                             II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                                 
1
               Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
                 The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before 
it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct. 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds2
                                                                                that:  
 
A.     RESPONDENT 
 
Gregory G. Nelson, a certified public accountant in Michigan from 1973 until his licensed expired 
on December 31, 2003, was a partner in the Detroit office of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
(“PwC”).  He is currently retired.  From 1997 to June 2002, the date of his retirement from PwC, 
Nelson was the engagement partner on PwC’s audits of Sun Communities, Inc.   
 
B.         ISSUERS 
 
Sun Communities, Inc. (“Sun”) is a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment 
trust.  Sun, as the general partner of Sun Communities Operating Limited Partnership (“SCOLP”), 
owns, operates, develops and finances manufactured housing communities concentrated in the 
Midwestern and Southeastern United States.  Sun went public in 1993 and is listed on the New 
York Stock Exchange.  In 1999, a subsidiary of SCOLP (Sun/Forest, LLC) formed a joint venture 
with MHCDC, LLC, a subsidiary of Champion Enterprises (“Champion”); the joint venture was 
called SunChamp, LLC (“SunChamp”).   
  
Sun Communities Operating Limited Partnership is the main operating subsidiary through 
which Sun owns, operates, develops and finances manufactured ho using communities concentrated 
in the Midwestern and Southeastern United States.  SCOLP was a separate filer with the 
Commission until May 2004.  Sun consolidated SCOLP’s financial statements within its own 
financial statements during the time at issue in this proceeding. 
    
C.          SUN’S FALSE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 
       Sun’s financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2000 and 2001 and the quarter 
ended March 31, 2002 were materially inaccurate and were not in accordance with Generally 
Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) because Sun failed to properly account for its interest 
in SunChamp. 
 
   1.  Sun Failed to Account Properly for its Investment in SunChamp    
    
              Beginning in 1999, SunChamp was formed to purchase land for development and to 
develop manufactured housing communities.  Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, Sun had and 
retains significant rights as to SunChamp, which resulted in Sun having the ability to exercise 
significant influence over SunChamp.       
 
              Beginning in the third quarter of 2000, SCOLP transferred portions of its SunChamp 
ownership to outside investors in an attempt to reduce its ownership below 20% and thereby avoid 
                                                 
2
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
                                               2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

recording SunChamp losses in its financial statements.  The consideration received from the 
outside investors consisted of cash in excess of $7 million and, in most instances, non-recourse 
notes totaling $6 million.  After recognizing the transfers of SunChamp ownership to the outside 
investors, Sun determined that it owned less than 20% of SunChamp and did not record any of 
SunChamp’s operating losses during Q3 2000, Q4 2000 and 2001.  As Nelson informed Sun at the 
time, this determination was not supported by GAAP.  
 
              The outside investor transactions were structured in such a way that the full risks and 
rewards of ownership did not transfer to the investors.  Therefore, the transactions did not 
constitute “sales” under GAAP.  Although Sun maintained significant influence over SunChamp, 
Sun failed to apply equity method accounting during 2000 and 2001.   Proper application of equity 
method accounting required that Sun record its allocable share of SunChamp’s losses.  Sun’s 
incorrect determination to not record its share of SunChamp’s losses led Sun to materially 
overstate its income in 2000 and 2001.  In 2002, Sun made additional capital contributions to 
SunChamp that Sun believed increased its ownership to greater than 20% of SunChamp.  
Beginning in Q1 2002 Sun applied equity method accounting for its interest in SunChamp.  During 
that quarter, however, Sun continued to improperly account for the SunChamp investment by, 
among other things, failing to recognize its entire share of the SunChamp losses as required under 
GAAP.   

       During PwC’s 2000 and 2001 audits, Nelson correctly concluded that Sun’s accounting 
for SunChamp did not comply with GAAP and thus proposed that Sun record adjusting entries to 
account for Sun’s share of the SunChamp losses under the equity method of accounting.  After 
management refused to make the adjustments, Nelson incorrectly concluded that the adjustments 
were immaterial to Sun’s financial statements.  Nelson failed to review and objectively evaluate 
the documents underlying the engagement team’s materiality analysis.  Specifically, he failed to 
review the outside investor transactions to determine whether Sun transferred the risks and 
rewards of ownership in SunChamp.  The documents for these transactions were provided to the 
PwC engagement team.  Because of Nelson’s lack of review and objective evaluation of the 
documents, he did not see that: (1) the transfers were funded, in part, by non-recourse notes that 
did not require principal or interest payments to be made, (2) the operating agreement contained 
a put option, and (3) the agreements contained a prohibition against pledging or selling the 
alleged interest and did not contain a requirement that the outside investors fund additional 
capital contributions.  The terms of these notes preclude accounting for these transactions as 
sales under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 66.  Thus, the engagement team’s 
materiality analysis -- which was based on the conclusion that the transactions with the outside 
investors were sales – was invalidated.  Instead, Nelson substantially relied on oral 
representations from Sun's Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) describing the SunChamp 
transactions and Nelson failed to apply the auditing procedures necessary to provide a reasonable 
basis for an opinion.   

        

        

                                               3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

   2.   Sun Also Failed to Comply with Other GAAP During Nelson’s Tenure as Engagement 
       Partner. 
 
              a.   Accounting for Transactions with Retroactive Effective Dates 

       During 2000 and 2001, Sun accounted for transactions with three outside investors 
retroactively, using effective dates reflecting the dates on which oral purchase and sales 
agreements supposedly occurred.  The effective dates were months before the agreements were 
finalized, the papers were signed, or money changed hands.  Sun considered the transactions 
effective at the time of the supposed oral agreements, despite having neither a contemporaneous 
written record of the transactions, nor a down payment.  Accounting for these transactions before 
they were finalized had the effect of reducing Sun’s perceived ownership percentage in SunChamp 
prematurely in several quarters.  Sun thereby reduced its perceived ownership below 20% and 
consequently believed that it could avoid equity method accounting and was not required to record 
any SunChamp losses in those quarters.     

              Nelson accepted the representations of the CFO as to the closing dates on the agreements 
with outside investors and never inspected the underlying documents.  He failed to properly review 
the agreements and to corroborate the representations of the CFO, which would have resulted in 
the discovery that the agreements were not completed as of the time they were made effective in 
Sun’s financial statements.   
 
       b.  90-Day Lag 
        
              During 2000 and the first quarter of 2002, Sun delayed recording SunChamp’s losses for 
90 days.  Sun justified its use of a 90-day lag on the grounds that Sun did not timely receive 
SunChamp’s financial statements from a Champion subsidiary that maintained the SunChamp 
accounting records.  However, contrary to Sun’s assertions, Sun could have timely recorded the 
SunChamp losses without any lag, as evidenced by the fact that Champion, using the same 
SunChamp financial statement results, timely reported its share of SunChamp’s results.   

       Nelson told Sun that the SEC was generally opposed to reporting on a lag because of its 
interest in real time reporting.  Nonetheless, Nelson relied exclusively on representations from 
Sun's management, and failed to take additional steps to obtain competent evidential matter to 
determine whether Sun’s application of a 90-day lag was factually justified and supportable 
under GAAP.  In fact, Sun’s application of a 90-day lag was not supportable under GAAP.  
Corroboration by Nelson of management’s assertion would have revealed that Sun received the 
SunChamp financial statements sufficiently early to timely report SunChamp’s results without 
any lag.  

 

 

 

                                               4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

D. IMPROPER PROF           ESSIONAL CONDUCT 

       In connection with PwC’s audits of Sun’s 2000 and 2001 year end financial statements and 
a review of Sun’s Q1 2002 financial statements, Nelson failed to meet several professional 
standards outlined in the Codification of Statements on Auditing Standards (“AU”).  Nelson failed 
to exercise due professional care in performing the Sun audits and preparing the audit reports as 
required by AU § 150.02.  Nelson also failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter 
through inspection, observation, inquiries, and confirmations to afford a reasonable basis for an 
audit opinion regarding the financial statements under audit.  AU § 150.02.   

       Representations from management are part of the evidential matter the independent auditor 
obtains, but they are not a substitute for the application of those auditing procedures necessary to 
afford a reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the financial statements under audit.  AU § 
333.02.  Nelson accepted the uncorroborated representations of Sun’s CFO as to the structure of 
the SunChamp transactions with outside investors and the effective dates on those transactions, and 
failed to review the underlying documents.  Had Nelson properly reviewed the transactions and 
appropriately corroborated their supposed effective dates, he would have discovered that: 1) the 
structure of the transactions precluded the transfer of the full risks and rewards of ownership, 2) the 
transactions were not completed as of the time they were recorded by Sun, and 3) the engagement 
team’s materiality analyses were invalid.  Nelson also relied exclusively on statements from Sun's 
management to determine whether Sun’s application of a 90-day lag was factually justified and 
supportable under GAAP.  Nelson failed to adequately corroborate management’s 
representations and consequently failed to discover that Sun did not have a supportable basis on 
which to report SunChamp’s losses on a lag. 

       In conducting an audit, an auditor is required to state in the auditor’s report whether the 
financial statements are presented in conformity with GAAP and the audit was conducted in 
accordance with GAAS.  AU § 410, 411 and 508.07.  Nelson caused PwC to render unqualified 
audit reports on the 2000 and 2001 financial statements included in Sun's annual reports on Form 
10-K for fiscal years 2000 and 2001.  As described in this Order, however, PwC’s audits of 
Sun’s 2000 and 2001 year-end financial statements and review of Sun’s financial statements for 
the first quarter of 2002 were not conducted in accordance with GAAS, and the financial 
statements were not prepared in conformity with GAAP. 

E. FINDINGS 
 
       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that, in connection with the 2000 and 2001 
audits and the 2002 review of financial statements of Sun, Nelson engaged in improper 
professional conduct (as defined by Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
   
                                              IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Nelson’s Offer. 

                                               5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
              A.          Nelson is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant.   
 
              B.          After two years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his/her practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                                         (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight       Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Respondent, or the registered                           public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

   (c) Respondent has resolved all di                          sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
   (d) Respondent acknowledges                              his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
      
       C.          The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependant on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s 

                                                  6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 
 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

7 
