---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                          Before the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 59530 / March 6, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2944 / March 6, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13400 
 
                                                 
In the Matter of                                ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC  
                                                ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
       STEPHAN HUSI                             PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
       Respondent.                              MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                                REMEDIAL SANCTIONS  
 
 
 
 
                                              I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) deems it appropriate and in 
the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
Stephan Husi (the “Respondent” or “Husi”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s    
Rules of Practice.1 
                  
 
                                              II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.2. below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 
                                                 
1 
       Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by order, . . .  
suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has been by name . . . permanently   
enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the 
Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the viola tion of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of    
the rules and regulations thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial  
Sanctions (the “Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
              1.      Husi, age 48, has held a certificate   as a “Swiss Certified Expert for    
Accounting and Controlling” since 1996.  From April 2002 through October 2003, he was the Head  
of Corporate Planning & Controlling of Centerpulse Ltd., a Swiss          public company that   
manufactured and marketed various medical devices.  From January 2001  through October 2003,  
Centerpulse’s American Depositary Shares were registered in the United States pursuant to Section  
12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (t he “Exchange Act”) and were traded on the New 
York Stock Exchange under the symbol “CEP.” 
 
              2.      On January 23, 2009, a final judgment was entered against Husi, 
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange  
Act and Rules 10b-5 and 13b2-1 th ereunder, and from aiding and ab etting future violations of 
Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20,  
13a-1 and 13a-16 thereunder, in the civil action  entitled United States Se curities and Exchange 
Commission v. Urs Kamber et al., Civil Action Number 1:07-cv-01867 (JDB), in the United States 
District Court for the District of Columbia.  Husi was also ordered to pay $14,216 in disgorgement  
of ill-gotten gains, $5,868 in prejudgment interest, and a $30,000 civil money penalty. 
 
              3.      The Commission’s complaint alleged that Husi and others engaged in a 
fraudulent scheme to infl ate Centerpulse’s reported earnings  during the second half of 2002 by 
manipulating reserves and refusing to recognize  expenses and liabilities.  The complaint also    
alleged that, as a result of the scheme, Centerpuls e issued and furnished to the Commission false 
and misleading earnings releases for the third and  fourth quarters of 2002, and issued and filed 
with the Commission a false and misleading     annual report for fiscal 2002, which materially 
overstated Centerpulse’s third quarter 2002 reported pretax income by approximately $32 million, 
and its fourth quarter 2002 and fiscal year 2002 reported pretax income by at least $26.4 million. 
 

                                              -2- 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                 IV.  
 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Husi’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
       A.      Husi is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
                    B. After 5 years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the  
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention:  Office of the  
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
 
                                 1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
        2.             an independent accountant. Su   ch an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
 
                             (a) Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight      Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                       (b)     Respondent, or the registered  public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms  
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
 
                       (c)     Respondent has resolved all di  sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                       (d)     Respondent acknowledges     his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 
 
       C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume  
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his status as an accountant is 

                                                 -3- 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable boards of  
accountancy.  However, if resolution of any disciplinary action by a board of accountancy 
is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an 
application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in 
addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                                             M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                                       

                                                                 -4- 
