---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                   STATES OF AMERICA 
 before                                             the 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  54345 / August 22, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2477 / August 22, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12394 
                                               
      :  
 :                                                     
 :                                                      
In the Matter of                              :             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                   :             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE
          MARK J. CORJAY (CPA),                  :             102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                   :             PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
Respondent.                                   :          IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                           :      
                                           :      
____________________________________ :        
                                                       
                                                   
                                                 I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Mark J. 
Corjay (“Respondent” or “Corjay”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1
            
                                                   
                                                 II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by 
       order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has been by 
       name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her 
       misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the 
       violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III. 3. below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
              1.           Corjay, age 43, is and has been a certified public accountant (“CPA”) 
                      licensed in the state of Oklahoma.  He served as Daisytek International 
                      Corporation’s (“Daisytek”) controller from 1994 to 2003. 
               
              2.           On May 7, 2003, Daisytek, a Delaware corporation based in Allen, Texas, 
                      filed a voluntary petition under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in 
                      the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Texas, Dallas 
                      Division.  Prior to filing for bankruptcy, Daisytek was engaged, in the 
                      United States and internationally, in the sale and distribution of office 
                      products and computer supplies.  At all relevant times, Daisytek’s common 
                      stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the 
                      Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and traded on 
                      NASDAQ.  On March 30, 2004, Daisytek filed a Form 15-12G to deregister 
                      its common stock.  On January 24, 2005, the Commission instituted settled 
                      cease-and-desist proceedings against Daisytek, in which Daisytek consented 
                      to the entry of a cease-and-desist order containing findings, which Daisytek 
                      neither admitted nor denied, that Daisytek had violated Section 17(a) of the 
                      Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), and Sections 10(b), 13(a), 
                      13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 
                      13a-1, 13a-13, and 13b2-1 thereunder.  
                       
              3.           On August 10, 2006, a final judgment was entered against Corjay, 
                      permanently enjoining him from direct or indirect future violations of 
                      Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, and Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the 
                      Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1, and 13b2-2 thereunder, and aiding 
                      and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of 
                      the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder, 
                      in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Mark J. 
                      Corjay, et al., Civil Action Number 4:06-CV-311, in the United States 
                      District Court for the Northern District of Texas.  Corjay was also ordered 
                      to pay $311,175 in disgorgement of ill-gotten gains from his sales of 
                      Daisytek stock while participating in the fraud, and $51,822 in prejudgment 
                      interest, but the Commission waived all but $100,000 of that amount and 
                      did not seek against Corjay a civil penalty based on his sworn financial 
                      statements. 

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
              4.           The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that throughout 
                      Daisytek’s fiscal years 2001 and 2002 (i.e., from April 1, 2000 through 
                      March 31, 2002), and through Daisytek’s second quarter of fiscal year 2003 
                      (i.e., through September 30, 2002), Corjay participated in a scheme through 
                      which Daisytek managed its earnings by recording non-existent and 
                      uncollectible receivables, and by improperly accelerating revenue 
                      recognition.  According to the complaint, the scheme involved the improper 
                      booking as revenue of various rebates associated with inventory Daisytek 
                      ordered for the sole purpose of meeting its earnings targets.  The 
                      Commission alleged that Corjay booked these receivables with knowledge 
                      that they were improper.  The Commission also alleged in the complaint 
                      that, as a result of the scheme, Daisytek met unrealistic earnings projections 
                      by fraudulently inflating its net income.  
        
                                               IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Corjay’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
       A.         Respondent is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
              an accountant. 
       B.          After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
              Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: 
              Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the 
              Commission as: 
              1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
                      review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with 
                      the Commission. Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                      Respondent’s work in his practice before the Commission will be 
                      reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
                      for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he 
                      practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
              2.           an independent accountant. Such an application must satisfy the 
                      Commission that: 
                      (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
                             associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting 
                             Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley 
                             Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                                                3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                         (b)        Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
                                  is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection 
                                  did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the 
                                  Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
                                  indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate 
                                  supervision;  
                         (c)         Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
                                  has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions 
                                  imposed by the Board (other than reinstatement by the 
                                  Commission); and 
                         (d) Respondent acknowledges his             responsibility, as long as 
                                  Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an 
                                  independent accountant, to comply with all requirements of the 
                                  Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
                                  requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring 
                                  partner reviews and quality control standards.   
 
        C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependant on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
         
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

                                                      4 
