---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                       Before the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

RELEASE NO. 56105 / July 19, 2007 


ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 

RELEASE NO. 2648 / July 19, 2007 


ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 

File No. 3-12704 


______________________________ 
                                  : 
In the Matter of                  :      ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
                                  :      DESIST AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIVE 
DAVID C. DRUMMOND,                :      PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C 
JOHN P. HAYES, FCA, and           :      OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
PATRICK E. MURPHY, FCA,           :      OF 1934 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                  :      COMMISSION=S RULES OF PRACTICE 
              Respondents.        :      MAKING FINDINGS, IMPOSING A 
                                  :      CEASE -AND-DESIST ORDER, REMEDIAL 
______________________________:          SANCTIONS, AND OTHER RELIEF 

                                            I. 

       The Securities and Exchange Commission (ACommission@) deems it appropriate that  
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against David C. Drummond 
("Drummond"), pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange 
Act"), and that cease-and-desist and public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, 
instituted against John P. Hayes (AHayes@) and Patrick E. Murphy (AMurphy@) pursuant to 
Section 21C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission's Rules of Practice 
[17 C.F.R.             1 
          ' 201.102(e)].

                                           II. 

1 
      Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
             The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
             practicing before it ... to any person who is found ... to have willfully violated, or willfully aided 
             and abetted the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules and 
             regulations thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

        In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, each Respondent has submitted an 
 Offer of Settlement (AOffers@) that the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
 purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
 Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
 findings herein, except as to the Commission=s jurisdiction over them and over the subject 
 matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, the Respondents each consent to the entry of 
 this Order Instituting Cease-And-Desist and Public Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to 
 Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules 
 of Practice, Making Findings, Imposing a Cease-And-Desist Order, Remedial Sanctions, and 
 Other Relief (AOrder@), as set forth below. 

                                               III. 

        On the basis of this Order and the Respondents  Offers, the Commission finds 2
                                                       =                               that: 

 A.     RESPONDENTS 

        1.    Drummond, age 43, is a resident of San Jose, California.  Drummond was the 
 Chief Financial Officer (ACFO@) of SmartForce PLC (ASmartForce@ or the ACompany@), now 
 known as SkillSoft PLC (ASkillSoft@), from July 1999 to February 2002, when he left the 
 Company to become General Counsel and Vice President (AVP@) for Corporate Development of 
 another now public company.  Prior to joining SmartForce as the CFO, Drummond was a 
 partner at a major law firm and his professional training is as a lawyer.  Drummond has no 
 formal training in accounting and has never been a certified public accountant.  

        2.    Murphy, age 56, is an Irish citizen.  Murphy is a chartered accountant and has 
 been a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants (AICA@) in Ireland since 1989, which 
 is similar to being a certified public accountant in the United States.3
                                                                       Murphy joined 
 SmartForce in January 1996 as a group controller and reported to Hayes.  As a group controller, 
 Murphy worked primarily on consolidation of the North America and Australia accounts.  
 Murphy was promoted to VP of Finance-North America in January 1998 and then to VP of 
 Global Finance in September 2001.  In February 2002, Murphy became the acting CFO, a 

2 
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents= Offers of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
3 
       Members of the ICA use the designatory letters ACA for associate chartered accountant and FCA for fellow 
chartered accountant. 

                                               2 

---------------------Page 3---------------------

position he held until the merger.  Prior to joining SmartForce, Murphy worked for Ernst & 
Young Chartered Accountants in Dublin (AEYCA@) where he performed work on the account of 
CBT Systems Limited (predecessor to SmartForce) at the company=s California headquarters 
during 1995. 

       3.     Hayes, age 53, is an Irish citizen.  Hayes is a chartered accountant and has been a 
member of the ICA in Ireland since 1983.  In 1986, Hayes joined SmartForce (then CBT 
Systems Limited, which at the time was privately-held) as the controller.  Around the time that 
CBT Systems went public in 1995, Hayes became the chief accounting officer and was 
responsible for making all accounting decisions at the company.  After Murphy joined the 
Company, he and Hayes divided the accounting responsibilities: Murphy became responsible 
for the accounts in the Americas and Australia while Hayes remained responsible for the 
European and South African accounts.  Hayes retained the title of VP of Finance for the 
European Division from January 1998 until September 2001, when he retired from the 
Company.  

       B.     RELATED PARTY 

       SkillSoft is a public limited company organized under the laws of the Republic of 
Ireland.  SkillSoft maintains its principal executive offices in New Hampshire.  SkillSoft is the 
product of a September 6, 2002 merger between the SkillSoft Corporation (ASkillSoft Corp.@) 
and SmartForce, a company organized under the laws of the Republic of Ireland that began 
trading on NASDAQ in April 1995.  Although SmartForce emerged as the surviving entity, 
SkillSoft Corp. was deemed to be the acquirer for accounting purposes.  Following the merger, 
SmartForce changed its name to SkillSoft PLC.  In this order ASmartForce@ refers to SmartForce 
PLC prior to the merger with SkillSoft Corp.  SkillSoft provides an Internet-based management 
and technology platform for training courseware, seminars, and reference materials geared 
toward business and IT professionals.  SkillSoft=s securities are registered with the Commission 
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and trade on NASDAQ. 

C.     FACTS 

       1.     The Merger Between SmartForce and SkillSoft 

       On June 10, 2002, SkillSoft Corp. and SmartForce issued a press release announcing 
that the two companies had signed a definitive agreement to merge in a stock-for-stock 
transaction.  A couple of weeks later, SmartForce filed a registration statement on Form S-4, 
regarding the merger, in which SmartForce=s financial statements, including  an unqualified 
audit report by EYCA dated January 16, 2002, were incorporated by reference. 

       2.     The Restatement 

       Before the markets opened on November 19, 2002, SkillSoft announced that in the 
process of preparing SmartForce=s closing balance sheet, SkillSoft identified several accounting 

                                             3 

---------------------Page 4---------------------

issues concerning generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (AGAAP@) that 
would require SkillSoft to restate SmartForce=s historical financial statements for the three-year 
period ended December 31, 2001 and for the six months ended June 30, 2002 (the ARestatement 
Period@).  Although the precise amount of the restatement was unknown at the time, SkillSoft 
estimated that SmartForce had prematurely recognized approximately $35 million to $40 
million in revenue.  SkillSoft also announced, along with the accounting restatement, that 
SkillSoft would be exiting three service lines of business with an approximately $30 million 
annual reduction in revenue, and that SkillSoft had been experiencing materially lower renewal 
rates.  The day after the announcement, SkillSoft=s stock price fell from $4.63 per share to $3.07 
per share, a drop of 33.7 percent. 

       On September 22, 2003, SkillSoft filed with the Commission a Form 8-K/A, restating 
SmartForce=s historical financial statements for the three-year period ended December 31, 2001 
and for the six months ended June 30, 2002.  Due to the nature and severity of the accounting 
issues identified, Ernst & Young LLP in the United States, SkillSoft=s auditors, re-audited the 
financial statements pertaining to the entire Restatement Period and made over 300 adjustments 
to correct the previously issued financial statements.  In the restatement, SkillSoft corrected 
multiple inaccurate accounting entries - primarily misapplication of certain revenue recognition 
principles by SmartForce, which had resulted in an overstatement of revenue by $113.6 million 
and net income by approximately $127 million during the Restatement Period.   

       3.     Accounting for Software Sales 

       GAAP requires that revenue from the sale or license of software be recognized 
consistent with AICPA Statement of Position 97-2, as amended, (ASOP 97-2").  SOP 97-2 
specifies the circumstances in which a company may recognize software license revenue upon 
delivery, and when a company must defer revenue recognition.  Software license revenue is 
generally recognizable upon delivery under SOP 97-2 if no significant production, 
customization or modification of software is required, if the remaining undelivered elements of 
the parties' arrangement are not essential to the functionality of the software, and if the 
following four basic criteria are met: (i) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (ii) 
delivery has occurred; (iii) the vendor=s fee is fixed or determinable; and (iv) collectibility is 
probable.   Paragraph 28 of SOP 97-2 provides, among other things, that Aif payment of a 
significant portion of the software licensing fee is not due until after the expiration of the 
license or more than twelve months after delivery, the licensing fee should be presumed not to 
be fixed or determinable.@  Moreover, when an arrangement involves multiple elements (e.g., 
software, 
upgrades, or consulting services), Paragraph 10 of SOP 97-2 requires that the fee be: 

       allocated to the various elements based on vendor-specific objective evidence of fair 
       value, regardless of any separate prices stated within the contract for each element. 
       Vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value is limited to the following: 

       !      The price charged when the same element is sold separately; 

                                                4 

---------------------Page 5---------------------

       !	     For an element not yet being sold separately, the price established by 
              management having the relevant authority; it must be probable that 
              the price, once established, will not change bef  ore the separate 
              introduction of the element into the marketplace. 

SOP 97-2 makes clear that the price for an element as included in a price list does not 
necessarily represent vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value (AVSOE@) for that 
element.  

       4. 	   Accounting for Non-Monetary Transactions 

       Under GAAP, accounting for non-monetary transactions should be based on the fair 
value of the assets or services involved, if it can be determined within reasonable limits.  See 
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 29, AAccounting for Nonmonetary Transactions@ 
(AAPB 29").  Paragraph 25 of APB 29 states, among other things, that fair value of an asset 
Ashould be determined by referring to estimated realizable values in cash transactions of the 
same or similar assets, quoted market prices, independent appraisals, estimated fair values of 
assets or services received in exchange, and other available evidence.@  If neither the fair value 
of a non-monetary asset transferred nor the fair value of a non-monetary asset received in 
exchange is determinable within reasonable limits, the recorded amount of the non-monetary 
asset transferred from the enterprise may be the only available measure of the transaction.  APB 
29, para. 26. 

       5. 	   Accounting Practices by SmartForce 

       During the Restatement Period, SmartForce engaged in various improper accounting 
practices, including premature recognition of revenue from multi-element arrangements, 
improper recognition of revenue from reciprocal transactions, and premature recognition of 
revenue from reseller agreements.  As a result of these accounting practices, SmartForce 
overstated its revenue by $113.6 million and net income by approximately $127 million.   

       The vast majority of the overstated revenue related to misapplication of the accounting 
guidance regarding VSOE and extended payment terms.  More specifically, SmartForce 
recognized revenue upon delivery from multi-element arrangements despite not having VSOE 
for each undelivered element as required under GAAP.  Similarly, SmartForce recognized 
revenue upon delivery from sales agreements that contained payment terms extending beyond 
12 months even though the Company had no history of collecting on similar agreements without 
making concessions.  

       In addition, during 2001, SmartForce also entered into several reciprocal non-monetary 
transactions with its customers, whereby the Company both sold and purchased goods or 
services without sufficient evidence to support the fair value of the goods or services 
exchanged.  SmartForce recognized license revenue upon delivery of the software sold to its 

                                               5 

---------------------Page 6---------------------

customers and recorded the purchases from its customers as if they had been separate, unrelated 
transactions.  Instead, SmartForce should have recorded the sales and purchases as exchanges 
pursuant to APB 29, such that there would have been a gain only to the extent of any net cash 
received.  Most of the reciprocal deals also included multiple elements and had extended 
payment terms.  Revenue recognition from these transactions was also improper because the 
Company failed to meet the requirements under provisions of SOP 97-2 pertaining to VSOE 
and extended payment terms. 

       SmartForce also recognized revenue prematurely from reseller transactions, some of 
which were non-binding agreements and some of which contained termination clauses that 
allowed the customer to terminate the agreement prior to its expiration.  For example, during the 
second and fourth quarters of 2001, SmartForce improperly recognized $5.5 million of revenue 
from two non-binding agreements with a reseller.  

       Consequently, SmartForce=s financial statements, which were included in the Company=s 
annual and quarterly reports during the Restatement Period, were materially false and 
misleading in that they overstated net income and revenue by failing to comply with GAAP.  
Several registration statements incorporated by reference various SmartForce financial 
statements for the restated periods.  This Order relates only to the financial statements of 
SmartForce for the restated periods prior to the merger between SmartForce and SkillSoft Corp.  

       6.     The Conduct of Respondents Murphy and Hayes 

       Murphy and Hayes shared the primary responsibility for the accounting decisions at 
SmartForce and for making sure that such accounting complied with GAAP.  Murphy was 
responsible for the accounts from the Americas and Australia, which constituted 70 percent of 
SmartForce=s business, while Hayes was responsible for the European and South African 
accounts, which represented the other 30 percent of SmartForce=s business. 

       On several multi-element arrangements, Murphy and Hayes improperly concluded that 
SmartForce had VSOE for each element of the arrangement and determined that the Company 
could recognize revenue up-front for the delivered elements.  SmartForce, however, did not 
have VSOE for each element of its multi-element arrangements because (i) the elements were 
not sold separately, and (ii) the list price was not representative of fair value, as the Company 
offered its customers significant discounts from the list price.  The discount percentage varied 
from customer to customer.  However, SmartForce performed no analysis to determine which 
elements were sold separately and whether there was an adequate amount of separate sales to 
support the fair value of the elements, nor did it perform an analysis to assess how the discounts 
affected its price list.  Accordingly, the determination that SmartForce had VSOE for each 
element of the multi-element arrangements did not conform with GAAP.  

       Moreover, despite the extended payment terms in the arrangements, Murphy and Hayes 
incorrectly concluded that the fees being charged by SmartForce were fixed or determinable.  In 

                                               6 

---------------------Page 7---------------------

doing so, Murphy and Hayes concluded that the Company had a history of entering into such 
agreements and had successfully collected on them without granting concessions.  SmartForce, 
however, did not have an adequate history of successful payment collections without 
concessions. 

       During 2001, SmartForce engaged in several reciprocal non-monetary arrangements 
with certain customers.  In these arrangements SmartForce simultaneously sold and purchased 
products or services from the same customer, or the Company and the customer agreed to sell 
each other=s products.  Murphy and Hayes allowed SmartForce to recognize the total amount 
from such sales as revenue.   The Company, however, should have recorded a gain only to the 
extent of any net cash received. 

       For example, in mid-June 2001, SmartForce and a customer executed a three-year multi-
element arrangement.  The arrangement entitled the customer to use (i) SmartForce=s platform 
and generic courseware, and (ii) third party content.  The third party content consisted of 
software developed by a private software company.   

       The total price SmartForce charged the customer for the arrangement was $5 million, of 
which $800,000 was applied toward the license for the SmartForce platform and generic 
courseware, while the remaining $4.2 million was earmarked for the software company=s 
content. The agreement obligated the customer to make two payments of $2.5 million to 
SmartForce, on July 6, 2001 and October 5, 2001.  Even though SmartForce did not determine 
fair value for either the courses it was selling to the customer or the software it was purchasing 
from the private software company, at Murphy=s direction, the Company recorded $4.3 million 
as revenue from this arrangement.  Such accounting did not comport with GAAP. 

       During the relevant period, Murphy and Hayes sold shares of SmartForce at prices that 
were inflated because of the accounting issues. 

       7.     Respondent Drummond=s Conduct 

       Drummond was hired as CFO of SmartForce in July 1999.  Drummond is a lawyer who 
had been a partner at a major law firm and who had no formal accounting training or 
background.  Accordingly, the accounting function was handled primarily by Hayes and 
Murphy although Drummond, in his capacity as CFO, ultimately had responsibility for 
SmartForce=s financial statements.    

       During late June 2001, SmartForce entered into a letter agreement with a reseller 
whereby the reseller agreed to Aendeavor@ to sell $2 million of SmartForce courseware.  More 
specifically, the letter agreement provided that the reseller would endeavor to bundle a 
minimum of 400,000 units of SmartForce training courses with other software, and would pay 
SmartForce $5.00 per each bundle shipped.  Drummond learned of this non-binding agreement 
before the end of the second quarter 2001, and knew or should have known that it would have 
been improper for SmartForce to recognize revenue from such agreement.  Nonetheless, 

                                              7 

---------------------Page 8---------------------

Drummond did not take any steps to determine whether SmartForce was recognizing revenue 
from the agreement or whether the accounting for the agreement complied with GAAP.  
SmartForce incorrectly recognized the $2 million as revenue and included the revenue in its 
Form 10-Q for the second quarter of 2001. 

       Moreover, prior to the end of the second quarter 2001, Drummond became aware of the 
arrangement among SmartForce, the private software company, and the customer described 
above, as he was consulted by the SmartForce salespeople negotiating the arrangement with the 
customer and actively participated in negotiating the transaction. Drummond knew that the 
customer dictated the price that SmartForce paid for the third party content described above.  
Because Drummond relied on Murphy to account for this three-way arrangement, Drummond 
should have communicated such information to Murphy. Drummond, however, failed to do so.  
Furthermore, Drummond did not take any steps to determine whether the accounting for the 
arrangement complied with GAAP.  Consequently, for fiscal 2001, SmartForce recognized $4.3 
million on this arrangement and included that revenue in the Company=s Form 10-K for the year 
ended December 31, 2001.  

       During the relevant period, Drummond sold shares of SmartForce at prices that were 
inflated because of the accounting issues. 

       8.     Federal Securities Laws Violations and Findings 

       Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder require 
issuers with securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act to file quarterly and 
annual reports with the Commission and to keep this information current. The obligation to file 
such reports embodies the requirement that they be true and correct. See, e.g., SEC v. Savoy 
Indus., Inc., 587 F.2d 1149, 1165 (D.C. Cir. 1978), cert. denied, 440 U.S. 913 (1979). 
Exchange Act Rule 12b-20 further requires the inclusion of any additional material information 
that is necessary to make required statements, in light of the circumstances under which they 
were made, not misleading. Information regarding the financial condition of a company is 
presumptively material.  SEC v. Blavin, 760 F.2d 706, 711 (6th Cir. 1985).  As a result of the 
conduct described above, Drummond caused, and Murphy and Hayes willfully aided and 
abetted and caused, SkillSoft's violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-
20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder. 

       Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires Section 12 registrants to make and 
keep books, records, and accounts that accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of their assets.  As a result of the conduct described above, Drummond caused, and 
Murphy and Hayes willfully aided and abetted and caused, SkillSoft's violations of Section 
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act. 

       Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires Section 12 registrants to Adevise and 
maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances 
that (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management=s general or specific 

                                               8 

---------------------Page 9---------------------

authorization; (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary (i) to permit preparation of financial 
statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria 
applicable to such statements, and (ii) to maintain accountability for assets; (iii) access to assets 
is permitted only in accordance with management=s general or specific authorization; and (iv) 
the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable 
intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.@  Section 13(b)(5) of 
the Exchange Act provides that Ano person shall knowingly circumvent or knowingly fail to 
implement a system of internal accounting controls or knowingly falsify any book, record, or 
account@ described in Section 13(b)(2)(B).  As a result of the conduct described above, 
Drummond caused, and Murphy and Hayes willfully aided and abetted and caused, SkillSoft's 
violations of Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act.  Moreover, as a result of the conduct 
described above, Drummond violated, and Murphy and Hayes willfully violated, Section 
13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act. 

       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that (a) Drummond caused, and Murphy 
and Hayes willfully aided and abetted and caused, SkillSoft's violations of Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 
promulgated thereunder; and (b) Drummond violated, and Murphy and Hayes willfully violated, 
Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act. 

       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Murphy and Hayes willfully violated 
and willfully aided and abetted violations of the federal securities laws and rules thereunder 
within the meaning of Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission=s Rules of Practice and as 
accountants are subject to sanctions under the Rule. 

D.     UNDERTAKINGS BY RESPONDENTS 

       1.     Respondents each undertake and agree to cooperate fully with the Commission 
in any and all Commission investigations, litigations or other proceedings relating to or arising 
from the matters described in this Order.  In connection with such cooperation, Respondents 
have undertaken: 

       a.     To produce, without service of a notice or subpoena, any and all relevant and 
              non-privileged documents and other information requested by the Commission's 
              staff; 

       b.     If requested by the Commission's staff, Respondents Drummond, Murphy, and 
              Hayes shall agree to be interviewed by the Commission's staff at such times as 
              the staff reasonably may direct, and appear and testify truthfully and completely 
              without service of a notice or subpoena in such investigations, depositions, 
              hearings or trials; 

       2.     In determining to accept the Respondents= Offers of Settlement, the Commission 
has considered the undertakings set forth in this Section. 

                                               9 

---------------------Page 10---------------------

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in each Respondent=s Offer of Settlement.  

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     Respondents Drummond, Murphy, and Hayes shall cease and desist from 
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 13(b)(5) of the 
Exchange Act; and from causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 
thereunder. 

       B.     Respondents Murphy and Hayes are denied the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before the Commission as accountants. 

       C.     After two (2) years from the date of this order Murphy may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement. After two (2) years from the date of this order Hayes 
may request that the Commission consider his reinstatement.  Each Respondent shall make any 
such request by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company's financial statements that are filed with the Commission. Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that the Respondent's work in his practice before 
the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public 
company for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before 
the Commission in this capacity; and/or 

              2.      an independent accountant. Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that:  

                      (a)    Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board ("Board") in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be 
effective; 

                      (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which 
he is associated, has been inspected by the Board or equivalent Irish organization and that 
inspection did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the Respondent's or the firm's 
quality control system that would indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate 
supervision; 
                      (c)    Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board or 

                                              10 

---------------------Page 11---------------------

equivalent Irish organization, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions 
imposed (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and  

                      (d)    Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as the 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, 
all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
control 
standards. 

       D.     The Commission will consider an application by either Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his chartered accountant license is 
current and he has resolved all other regulatory or disciplinary issues, if any, with the applicable 
Irish institute of chartered accountants.  However, if licensure is dependent on reinstatement by 
the Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits. The 
Commission's review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, 
any other matters relating to the Respondent's character, integrity, professional conduct, or 
qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

       E.     Respondent Drummond shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay 
disgorgement of $454,105 and prejudgment interest of $119,874 to the United States Treasury. 

       F.     Respondent Murphy shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay 
disgorgement of $449,269 and prejudgment interest of $118,597 to the United States Treasury. 

       G.     Respondent Hayes shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay 
disgorgement of $673,882 and prejudgment interest of $188,513 to the United States Treasury. 

       H.     Such payments shall be: (A) made by United States postal money order, certified 
check, bank cashier's check or bank money order; (B) made payable to the Securities and 
Exchange Commission; (C) hand-delivered or mailed to the Office of Financial Management, 
Securities and Exchange Commission, Operations Center, 6432 General Green Way, Stop 0-3, 
Alexandria, VA 22312; and (D) submitted under cover letter that identifies the particular 
Respondent in these proceedings, the file number of these proceedings, a copy of  

                                              11 

---------------------Page 12---------------------

which cover letter and money order or check shall be sent to Carlos Costa-Rodrigues, Boston 
District Office, Securities and Exchange Commission, 33 Arch Street, 23rd
                                                                        Floor, Boston, MA 
02110. 

       By the Commission. 

                                      Nancy M. Morris 
                                      Secretary 

                                             12 

