---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No.  56340 / August 30, 2007 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No.  2671 / August 30, 2007 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-11091 

                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
David R. Decker, CPA  
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                          
        

       On April 24, 2003, David R. Decker ("Decker") was denied the privilege of appearing or 
practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public administrative 
proceedings instituted by the Commission against Decker pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                 Decker consented to the entry of the April 24, 2003 order 
without admitting or denying the findings therein.  This order is issued in response to Decker’s 
application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant 
responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed with the 
Commission. 

                  Decker was alleged to have engaged in improper professional conduct in connection 
with his work on BKR Metcalf Davis’ (“Metcalf Davis”) aud it of Chancellor Corporation’s 
(“Chancellor”) 1998 financial statements.  Decker was responsible for conducting a review of the 
audit workpapers as part of the Metcalf Davis’ quality control function.  In addition, he also 
performed audit steps to determine the appropriate date of consolidation of Chancellor’s results 
with that of a subsidiary it acquired during 1998.  In performing his work on the Chancellor 
audit, Decker failed to exercise due professional care, maintain professional skepticism and 
obtain sufficient evidential matter.  In addition, Decker failed to design appropriate audit 
procedures to determine whether or not Chancellor’s senior management had fraudulently 
fabricated documents to support their accounting positions.  Finally, Decker’s actions on the 
audit caused Chancellor to file a materially false and misleading Form 10-KSB for 1998. 
                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 1762 dated April 24, 2003.  Decker was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after three years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                     

                                                   
       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Decker 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Decker is not, at this time, seeking to appear 
or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume 
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be 
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Decker’s 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 
        
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Decker, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the April 24, 2003 order denying 
him the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 
and that Decker, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee 
of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in 
his practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to 
be filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is 
accordingly, 
 
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
 

                                                 2
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                                

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
David R. Decker, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                            
                                            
                                            
                                           Nancy M. Morris  
                                           Secretary  

                                               3
