---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                      the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  52370 / August 31, 2005 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2306 / August 31, 2005 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12027 
 
                                               
In the Matter of                             ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
                                             PROCEEDINGS, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
PREMIER FINANCIAL BANCORP,                   IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
INC.,                                        PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF THE 
                                             SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
                  Respondent. 
 
 
                                                
 
                                          I.  
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Premier Financial Bancorp, Inc. (“Premier” or 
“Respondent”).   
                                            
                                          II.  
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to 
Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act  of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
 
                                               III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  1
                                                                                 that: 
 
                                          Respondent  
 
       1.       Premier, headquartered in Huntington, West Virginia, is a multi-bank holding 
company that operates community bank subsidiaries throughout West Virginia, Ohio and 
Kentucky.  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, Premier reported $537 million in total 
assets at year end, and $6.7 million in net income.  Premier files its financial statements on a 
consolidated basis.  Premier’s common stock is registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the 
Exchange Act and trades on the NASDAQ National Market System. 

                             Other Relevant Entity and Individual  

       2.       Farmers Deposit Bank (“Farmers”), one of Premie  r’s subsidiary banks, is a 
community bank located in Eminence, Kentucky.  Premier acquired Farmers in 1996.  As of 
December 31, 2004, Farmers reported $91,605,000 in assets, and a  net loss of $250,000 for the  
year. 

       3.       William J. Covington (“Covington”), age 54, is a resident of Eminence, Kentucky, 
and served as President and CEO of Farmers from September 1986 until June 2003.  As President  
and CEO, Covington was ultimately responsible for Farmers’ lending, financial, and accounting 
functions.2 
           

                            Improper Accounting for Loan Losses  

       4.       On June 16, 2003, Premier filed a Form 8-K announcing its discovery of a  
systematic disregard for its loan approval and credit administration policies at one of its subsidiary 
banks.  Premier also announced that it had accepted the resignation of the bank’s President and 
CEO, and was conducting an ongoing investigation.  Premier did not identify the name of the bank 
or the bank’s President and CEO.   

       5.       On July 31, 2003, Premier filed a Form 8-K identifying Farmers as the relevant 
subsidiary bank, and Covington as the bank’s President and CEO.  Premier also reported that as a 
result of its ongoing internal investigation it was charging off as uncollectible approximately $6.2 
million of loans and increasing its allowance for loan losses to over $8.7 million at Farmers.  

       6.       Farmers’ records overstated the subsidiary’s net income  during 2001, 2002, and 
2003 by failing to accurately reflect loan losses and charge-offs.  As a result of these errors, 
                                                 
1 
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding 
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
 
2 
       The Commission is filing a settled civil action against Covington in United States District Court. 
                                                2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

Premier filed materially inaccurate financial information in its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for 
each of the quarters of 2001, 2002, and 2003, and Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the years 
ended 2001 and 2002.  Some or all of these false and misleading reports were incorporated by 
reference into a registration statement on Form S-8 filed by Premier on July  30, 2002.   On April  
14, 2004, Premier filed a Form 10-K restating its financial statements to accurately reflect loan 
losses and charge-offs that should have been recorded in these earlier time periods.   

       7.       Premier’s inaccurate filings resulted from Covington’s fraudulent conduct.  From at  
least 2001 until 2003, Covington engaged in a variety of deceptive acts and practices designed to 
conceal mounting loan losses from Premier and its officers, directors, auditors and banking 
regulators, including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and Kentucky Department of 
Financial Institutions. 

       8.       Among other things, Covington concealed problems with Farmers’ loan portfolio 
by (1) recording loans under fictitious or misleading names and using the proceeds from these 
loans to keep earlier loans current, and by failing to report, as required, that the loans were related; 
(2) altering documents presented to Farmers’ boa rd of directors; (3) bump-dating loans, which 
means altering the records to assign a later due date, thus, making the loans appear current; (4) 
structuring loans by dividing them into smaller amounts to avoid meeting the minimum loan 
amount required for presentation to Farmers’ auditors and board of directors for review; (5) 
initiating fictitious payments on loans; (6)  reassigning loan payments to unrelated accounts; and 
(7) releasing collateral securing loans without requiring payment of the debt.   

       9.       Covington’s concealment of loan losses caused Farmers’ financial and accounting 
records to be inaccurate by reflecting inadequate reserves for loan losses and recording interest 
income on delinquent and uncollectible loans.  On a monthly and quarterly basis, Covington 
reported Farmer’s financial statements to Premier, which he knew prepared its financial statements  
on a consolidated basis.  Because Premier relied on these records to prepare its consolidated 
financial reports, Premier’s quarterly and yearly Commission filings during 2001 through 2003 
likewise contained materially inaccurate financial information.  As a result, Premier’s Forms 10-K 
filed for the years 2001 and 2002, and Forms 10-Q filed for the first three quarters of 2001, 2002, 
and 2003, contained financial statements that failed to comply with GAAP.  3 
                                                                               

       10.     Specifically, Premier’s net income for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001, 
was overstated by 94%, and its net loss for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002 was 
understated by 63%.  Thus, in its restatement filed on April 14, 2004, Premier reported a combined  
net loss of $2,143,000 for fiscal years 2001 and 2002, in contrast to the previously reported 
combined net income of $1,099,000. 

                                                 
3 
       Under GAAP, the bank’s bad debt reserve should reflect the estimated probable loss inherent in 
loans receivable based on information indicating that the asset was impaired at the date of the financial 
statements.  Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies and  
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 114, Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a  
Loan.  On the balance sheet the reserve is deducted from loans receivable resulting in a figure that 
represents the net realizable value (i.e. the amount estimated to be collectible) and on the income 
statement an increase in the reserve is reflected as a charge against earnings.   
                                                 3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       11.     Additionally, each of Premier’s quarterly filings filed throughout 2001, 2002, and 
2003 were materially misstated.  For example, for the first quarter 2003, Premier initially reported 
net income of $353,000.  In the restatement, Premier reported a loss for this quarter of $393,000.  

                                Premier’s Inadequate Controls  

       12.     Premier granted each of its subsidiaries, including Farmers, substantial autonomy in 
their operations throughout the 1990’s.  Each bank’s President was responsible for the bank’s loan 
accounting treatments, such as the establishment of loan loss allowances and treatment of impaired 
loans, and served as the primary contact for the bank’s auditors and regulators.  Additionally, each 
subsidiary bank had its own board of directors, and established and followed its own loan  
origination and accounting policies and procedures.    

       13.     In 2003, to better administer and supervise the loan origination process, Premier 
instituted a company-wide standard loan policy that required each of  the subsidiary banks to adhere 
to uniform loan policies and procedures.     

       14.     The combination of Premier’s hands-off approach to managing its subsidiary banks, 
along with its delay in preparing standardized loan policies and procedures, contributed to the  
record-keeping and reporting errors.  The fact that Covington’s conduct was permitted to occur and 
went undetected for at least three years, evidences that certain of Premier’s internal accounting 
controls were inadequate during the relevant time period.     

                                           Violations  

       15.     Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act requires reporting companies to file periodic and 
other reports with the Commission containing such information as the Commission’s rules 
prescribe.  Exchange Act Rule 13a-1 requires issuers to file annual reports with the Commission on 
Form 10-K, and Exchange Act Rule 13a-13 requires issuers to file quarterly reports with the 
Commission on Form 10-Q.  Rule 12b-20, promulgated pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange 
Act, requires “such further material information, if any, as may be necessary to make the required 
statements, in light of the circumstances under which they are made not misleading.”  A violation 
of these provisions is established if annual or  quarterly reports are shown to contain materially 
inaccurate information regarding such items as the issuer’s income. 

       16.     Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires reporting companies to make and 
keep books, records, and accounts,  which in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their 
transactions and disposition of assets.  Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires reporting 
companies to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide 
reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial 
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 

       17.     As a result of the conduct described above, Premier violated Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder by making filings that were 
materially false and misleading.  In addition, Premier violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange 
Act by failing to make and keep books and records which accurately reflected Farmers’ and,  
ultimately, its own net earnings during 2001 through 2003.  Premier also violated Section 
                                                4
  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, by failing to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting 
controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions were recorded as necessary to  
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles. 

                                  Premier’s Remedial Efforts  

       18.     Since June 2003, Premier has undertaken the following voluntary remedial actions: 

              A.      Notified its banking regulators, including the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corp., Federal Reserve of Cleveland, Ohio, and the Kentucky Department of Financial Institutions, 
to inform them of the irregularities; 

              B.      Retained auditors and outside counsel to conduct an investigation to 
determine the full extent of the loss; 

              C.      Made permanent staffing changes, with a focus on establishing more 
experienced management at Farmers, and assistance in loan documentation, administration, and 
compliance;  

              D.      Enhanced its board of directors by adding new members and forming new 
committees focused on oversight; 

              E.      Expanded its internal audit program by hiring a full time internal auditor, 
and established a new process for reviewing large credits at all affiliate banks; and 

              F.      Filed a Form 10-K restating the financial statements for 2001 through 2003 
to account for loan losses which should have been realized during these earlier time periods. 

       19.     In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered the remedial acts 
promptly undertaken by Premier, including those  set forth in Paragraph 18, above, and cooperation 
afforded the Commission staff by Respondent. 

                                               5
  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 
 
                                                                     IV. 
                                                                        
           In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Premier’s Offer. 
 
           Accordingly, it is hereby  ORDERED that Respondent Premier cease and desist from                                                               
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of  Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Jonathan                                                                             G. Katz
       Secretary                                                                           
 

                                                                      6
  
