---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                  STATES OF AMERICA 
 before                                            the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  53661 / April 17, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2415 / April 17, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12263
                                              
      :  
 :                                                    
 :                                                     
       In the Matter of                      :             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                   :             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
                            DAVID T. LEBOE, CPA,     :             102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                   :             PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
            Respondent.                  :     IMPO        SING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                          :      
                                          :      
____________________________________ :              
                                                      
 
                                                I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against David 
T. Leboe (“Respondent” or “Leboe”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1
            
                                                  
                                               II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
                     1.           David T. Leboe, age 38, is and has been a certified public accountant 
licensed to practice in the State of Texas.  He served as an accountant in Enron North America 
(ENA), a business unit of Enron Corp. (Enron), from 1997 until 2001. 
        
                     2.           Enron was, at all relevant times, an Oregon corporation with its principal 
place of business in Houston, Texas.  Until its bankruptcy filing in December 2001, Enron was the 
seventh largest corporation in the United States based on reported revenue.  In the previous ten 
years, Enron had evolved from a regional natural gas provider to a commodity trader of natural 
gas, electricity, and other physical commodities with retail operations in energy and other products.  
The Company also created and traded financial products.  ENA was Enron’s largest and most 
profitable business unit and included Enron’s wholesale merchant business related to natural gas 
and power across North America, including trading, marketing and new asset development 
activities in that region.  At all relevant times, the common stock of Enron was registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) 
and traded on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 
                     3.           On March 27, 2006, the Commission filed a complaint against Leboe in 
Securities and Exchange Commission v. David T. Leboe and Dale G. Rasmussen, Civil Action No. 
H-06-1020 (S.D. Tex.).  On March 28, 2006, the court entered a final judgment permanently 
enjoining Leboe, by consent, from future violations of Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange 
Act and Rules 10b-5 and 13b2-1 thereunder, and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder.  
Leboe was also ordered to pay $1 in disgorgement and a $30,000 civil money penalty. 
 
                            4.           The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Leboe 
 engaged in a fraudulent scheme which resulted in Enron filing materially false and misleading 
 financial statements in the company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
 December 31, 2000, and in the company’s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 
 fiscal year 2000.  The Complaint alleged that Leboe engaged in a number of improper 
 accounting practices that materially increased Enron’s annual and quarterly revenue and net 
 income in a departure from generally accepted accounting principles.  These practices included, 
 among other things, improperly accelerating the recognition of revenue from the sale of a 
 construction contract, and concealing undocumented side agreements from Enron’s independent 

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 auditors.  In addition, the complaint alleged that Leboe actively sought to keep others from 
 disclosing information to Enron’s independent auditors about these side agreements. 
        
                                                 IV. 
                                                    
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Leboe’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
              A.          Leboe is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
              B.          After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                                         (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight       Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Respondent, or the registered                           public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

   (c) Respondent has resolved all di                          sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
   (d) Respondent acknowledges                              his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
      
                                                  3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

         C.       The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependant on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

                                                                4 
