---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                  STATES OF AMERICA 
 before                                            the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  54208 / July 25, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2466 / July 25, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12377  
                                              
      :  
 :                                                   
 :                                                    
       In the Matter of                      :             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                   :             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
                            JAMES S. ADAMS, CPA      :             102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                   :             PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
            Respondent.                  :     IMPO        SING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                          :      
                                          :      
____________________________________ :              
                                                     
                                                I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against James 
S. Adams (“Respondent” or “Adams”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1
            
                                                  
                                                  
                                                  
                                                  

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                 
                                               II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.4 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
                     1.           Adams, age 46, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to 
practice in the State of Indiana.  From 1996 to September 2002, Adams was Chief Accounting 
Officer, Treasurer, and Senior Vice President of Conseco, Inc. (“Conseco”).  From June 1998 to 
July 2002, Adams was Chief Accounting Officer for Conseco Finance Corporation (“Conseco 
Finance”), f/k/a Green Tree Financial Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Conseco during 
this period.   
        
                     2.           At all relevant times, Conseco was a financial services holding company, 
incorporated in Indiana, with its principal place of business in Carmel, Indiana.  Conseco’s business 
consisted of two segments: (i) insurance and fee-based businesses (such as mutual funds), and (ii) 
finance operations. Conseco’s finance operations were conducted through Conseco Finance, with 
Conseco including Conseco Finance’s financial results in its consolidated financial statements.  
Conseco’s common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and traded on the New York Stock Exchange.   
        
                     3.           At all relevant times, Conseco Finance was a Delaware corporation with its 
principal place of business in Saint Paul, Minnesota.  Conseco Finance was a diversified financial 
services company with operations that originated, purchased, sold and serviced consumer and 
commercial loans throughout the United States.  At all relevant times, certain of Conseco Finance’s 
securities were registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act.   
 
                     4.           On March 10, 2004, the Commission filed a complaint against Adams and 
co-defendant Rollin M. Dick in Securities and Exchange Commission v. Rollin M. Dick and James 
S. Adams, Case No. 1:04-CV-0457 SEB-VSS in the United States District Court for the Southern 
District of Indiana.  On August 30, 2005, the Commission filed an amended complaint against 
Adams and Dick in this action.  On July 3, 2006, the court entered a Final Judgment permanently 
enjoining Adams, by consent, from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, 
Section 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1 and 13b2-

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

2, and from aiding and abetting violations of Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of 
the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rules 10b-5, 12b-20 and 13a-13.  The Judgment also ordered 
Adams to pay $90,000 as a civil money penalty, and barred Adams for a period of five years 
following the date of entry of the Final Judgment, from acting as an officer or director of any issuer 
that has a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 
78l] or that is required to file reports pursuant to section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. 
 
               5.     The Commission’s amended complaint alleged, among other things, that 
from March 1999 through February 2000, Conseco and Conseco Finance made false and 
misleading statements about their earnings in filings made with the Commission and in public 
statements announcing their earnings, overstating their financial results by hundreds of millions of 
dollars.  The complaint alleged that this massive overstatement occurred primarily because Dick 
and Adams conducted a fraudulent scheme to avoid huge write-downs of certain assets held by 
Conseco Finance known as interest-only securities, and corresponding charges to earnings, 
through the use of improper accounting techniques in violation of United States Generally 
Accepted Accounting Principles.  The complaint also alleged that Dick and Adams made a variety 
of improper and unsupported “top-side” adjustments to Conseco Finance’s books and records at 
the end of the first three quarters of 1999 to further inflate Conseco and Conseco Finance’s 
earnings for these quarters in order to meet Wall Street’s analysts’ consensus earnings targets.  
Further, the complaint alleged that Conseco and Conseco Finance, under Dick and Adams’ 
direction, failed to maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to prevent these 
and other material misstatements in their financial statements, and that Dick and Adams were 
responsible for and took advantage of this failure to maintain adequate controls.  Finally, the 
complaint alleged that Dick and Adams made misrepresent   ations to Conseco and Conseco 
Finance’s auditors in management representation letters.        
                         
                                               IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Adams’ Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
              A.          Adams is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
              B.          After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 

                                                3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                                         (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight                   Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Respondent, or the registered                                     public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision  

   (c) Respondent has resolved all di                                     sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
   (d) Respondent acknowledges                                        his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
      
         C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependant on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 
 
    By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

                                                          4 
