---------------------Page 1---------------------

                          UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                      Before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 53762 / May 5, 2006 
 
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940 
Release No. 27312 / May 5, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2426 / May 5, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12286 
 
                                     ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                     AND CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS, 
In the Matter of                     MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                     REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-
UNIFIED FUND SERVICES, INC.          AND-DESIST ORDER PURSUANT TO 
AND MICHAEL E. DURHAM                SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND SECTIONS 
Respondents.                         9(b) AND 9(f) OF THE INVESTMENT 
                                     COMPANY ACT OF 1940 
 
                                          I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in 
the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby 
are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), 
and Sections 9(b) and 9(f) of The Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company 
Act”) against Unified Fund Services, Inc. (“Unified”) and pursuant to Section 9(f) of the 
Investment Company Act against Michael E. Durham (“Durham”) (Unified and Durham are 
referred to collectively herein as “Respondents”). 

                                         II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”), which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting 
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

of 1934, and Sections 9(b) and 9(f) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Order”), as set 
forth below. 

                                                III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds    1 that:  

                                          OVERVIEW 

       1.           Unified Fund Services, Inc. (“Unified”), a mutual fund services company, 
provided fund administration services to the Liquid Green Money Market Fund (“Liquid Green”) 
and its predecessor, the Unified Taxable Money Market Fund (“UTMM”).  From March 2001 
through December 2001, the portfolio manager for Liquid Green and UTMM purchased callable 
bonds that exceeded the maturity limit for securities eligible for purchase by a money market 
fund under Investment Company Act Rule 2a-7.  Unified incorrectly substituted the call dates for 
the maturity dates of the bonds in the fund accounting records and also used the call dates for 
purposes of determining compliance with Rule 2a-7.  As a result of these errors, Unified caused 
the funds to hold themselves out as money market funds when they were not entitled to do so 
because they did not meet the risk limiting conditions of Rule 2a-7 resulting in violations of 
Sections 35(d) and 34(b) of the Investment Company Act.   

       2.           Unified also provided fund administration services and served as the fund 
accountant for the Florida Street Bond Fund (“Florida Street”), a high-yield bond fund.  In 
August 1999, when Unified began providing accounting services to Florida Street, the assets on 
Florida Street’s balance sheet included a substantial interest receivable that was uncollectible.  
Unified carried this balance over when it began providing accounting services, and Unified did 
not receive accounting records from the predecessor accountant that adequately substantiated the 
receivable.  From August 1999 through June 2001, Unified caused Florida Street to continue to 
carry and accrue uncollectible interest on bonds and to fail to write off interest on bonds no 
longer owned by the fund.  As a result of these errors, Unified (1) caused Florida Street to 
materially overstate its interest receivable; (2) computed an incorrect net asset value (“NAV”), 
and (3) caused Florida Street to sell and redeem its shares at incorrect NAVs.  Finally, from 2000 
through 2002, Unified was late in filing several mutual funds’ semi-annual reports and Form N-
SARs with the Commission.  By this conduct, Unified willfully    2 violated or aided and abetted 
and caused violations of pricing, books and records, and naming provisions of the Investment 
Company Act, and reporting provisions of the Exchange Act.  Michael Durham (“Durham”), a 
Unified executive, caused or substantially assisted these violations. 

                                                      
1 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not binding on any other 
 person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
2 “Willfully” as used in this Order means intentionally committing the act that constitutes the violation.  Cf. 
 Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408,411 (D.C. Cir. 2000); Tager v. SEC, 344 F.2d 5, 8 (2d Cir. 1965). 

                                               - 2 - 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                       RESPONDENTS 

       3.     Unified, a mutual fund services company, is an Indiana corporation formed in 
1990 with its principal place of business in Indianapolis, Indiana.  Unified has been registered 
with the Commission as a transfer agent since 1990.  Unified provides mutual fund 
administration, transfer agency and other services to over 137 mutual funds with over $15 billion 
in assets.  Unified is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Unified Financial Services, Inc.  From 1999 
through 2002, Unified provided certain mutual fund accounting and administrative services to 
UTMM, Liquid Green and Florida Street, pursuant to service contracts then in place between 
Unified and the funds.  Among other things, Unified calculated NAVs, prepared and filed 
regulatory reports with the Commission, and performed compliance testing. 

       4.     Michael E. Durham, a 45-year-old resident of Greenwood, Indiana, was the Vice 
President of Fund Accounting at Unified from 1995 until his termination in August 2003.  

                              OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES 

       5.     Unified Funds, an Indiana corporation, was an open-end series investment 
company  3 from 1996 until 2001.  One of Unified Funds’ portfolios was UTMM.  On October 1, 
2001, UTMM dissolved after it transferred all of its assets to Liquid Green, a portfolio of 
AmeriPrime Advisors Trust. 

       6.     AmeriPrime Advisors Trust (“AAT”), an Ohio business trust, is an open-end 
investment company that has been registered with the Commission since 1999.  Currently, AAT 
has eight portfolios with over $307 million in assets.  In October 2001, AAT formed Liquid 
Green as one of its portfolios.  In February 2002, Liquid Green dissolved after transferring all of 
its assets to another money market fund. 

       7.     AmeriPrime Funds (“AF”), an Ohio business trust, is an open-end investment 
company that has been registered with the Commission since 1995.  Currently, AF has six 
portfolios with over $103 million in assets.  In July 1999, Florida Street, a high-yield bond fund, 
became a portfolio under AF.  In November 2001, AF’s board decided to liquidate Florida Street 
as a result of the problems described herein. 

       8.     Unified Investment Advisers, Inc. (“UIA”) was an Indiana corporation and 
registered investment adviser from February 1995 until it terminated its registration in 
October 2002.  UIA was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Unified Financial Services, Inc.  UIA’s 
only client was UTMM, and later Liquid Green, which ceased operations in February 2002.  In 
October 2002, UIA merged into Unified. 

                                                      
3 Although a series investment company such as Unified Funds, AAT or AF is organized as a single corporate entity, 
 it may be comprised of several different series or portfolios that function as separate investment companies. 

                                              - 3 - 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                            FACTS 

UTMM and Liquid Green Held Ineligible Securities 

       9.           Investment Company Act Rule 22c-1 prohibits an investment company issuing 
redeemable securities from selling, redeeming or repurchasing any such security except at a price 
based on the current NAV of the security.  In determining the NAV, an investment company 
must value portfolio securities for which market quotations are readily available at their current 
market value, and other securities at their fair value as determined in good faith by the 
investment company’s board of directors.  This NAV determination, which generally must be 
made on each business day on which the investment company sells, redeems or repurchases its 
securities, is commonly referred to as the “daily mark-to-market” requirement. 

       10.        Investment Company Act Rule 2a-7 is an exemptive rule which exempts 
investment companies from the daily mark-to-market requirement for certain investment 
companies characterized as money market funds.  Rule 2a-7 permits a money market fund to use 
the amortized cost method of valuation to value its portfolio securities.  Under the amortized cost 
method of valuation, portfolio securities are valued at the investment company’s cost of 
acquisition, adjusted for the amortization of premium or the accumulation of discount, rather 
than at their market or fair values. 

       11.        Rule 2a-7 provides that an investment company which holds itself out as a money 
market fund and uses the amortized cost method of valuation to value its portfolio securities 
must meet certain conditions.  In particular, such a money market fund may not acquire any 
instrument with a remaining maturity of more than 397 calendar days, unless the securities have 
a maturity-shortening feature as defined in Rule 2a-7, or maintain a dollar-weighted average 
portfolio maturity that exceeds 90 days. 

       12.        Between March 20, 2001 and December 6, 2001, UIA purchased 28 fixed-rate 
government agency bonds for UTMM and Liquid Green with remaining maturities of between 
two and a half and twelve years (the “Ineligible Securities”).  By September 30, 2001, the 
Ineligible Securities made up approximately 53.1% of Liquid Green’s assets.  Each of these 
securities contained a call provision that provided the issuer of the security with an option or 
right, at its discretion, to call the instrument during its term on specified dates at par.  Unified 
used these call dates, rather than the stated maturity dates, for purposes of determining 
compliance with the conditions of Rule 2a-7.  Unified’s use of the call dates rather than the 
stated maturity dates was impermissible under the rule, however, because UTMM and Liquid 
Green did not have any right or privilege to put back, or sell, the Ineligible Securities to the 
issuer prior to the stated maturity and thereby ensure that the maturity of the Ineligible Securities 
would not actually be greater than 397 days. 

       13.        Pursuant to its fund servicing contracts with Unified Funds and AAT, the 
sponsors of UTMM and Liquid Green respectively, Unified was responsible for monitoring the 
funds’ compliance with their stated investment restrictions, which included the conditions of 
Rule 2a-7.  Unified was also responsible for keeping the funds’ books and preparing quarterly 
Rule 2a-7 compliance reports for the funds’ boards of directors. 

                                              - 4 - 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       14.        In performing its duties for the funds, Unified erroneously substituted the call 
dates for the maturity dates of the Ineligible Securities in the source accounting records of 
UTMM and Liquid Green.  By doing so, Unified made misstatements in UTMM’s and Liquid 
Green’s books and records.  The misstatements appeared in both funds’ security master files, 
which are part of the funds’ accounting records, and in their portfolio listings.  Although the 
correct maturity dates for the Ineligible Securities were also entered into the source records and 
were set forth on the audited and unaudited financial statements of UTMM and Liquid Green, 
Unified prepared quarterly Rule 2a-7 compliance reports based upon a portion of the source 
records containing the call dates.  Unified also used the call dates to calculate the funds’ average 
portfolio maturities.  As a result, Rule 2a-7 compliance reports generated by Unified between 
May and December 2001 showed the average portfolio maturities to be under 90 days when the 
actual average portfolio maturities were between 730 and 1,825 days.  The reports also 
misrepresented UTMM’s and Liquid Green’s longest maturity investments.  For example, the 
May 1, 2001 Rule 2a-7 report disclosed the longest maturity investment as 381 days instead of 
3,642 days.  

       15.        Between March 2001 and December 2001, Unified prepared and filed with the 
Commission prospectuses and reports for UTMM and Liquid Green.  These prospectuses and 
reports, which were also reviewed by the funds’ outside counsel and accountants, described 
UTMM and Liquid Green as money market funds when they were no longer entitled to hold 
themselves out as money market funds.  The prospectuses also represented that the funds could 
and did use the amortized cost method to price their securities, without disclosing that the funds 
held Ineligible Securities and therefore were not entitled to use the amortized cost method. 

       16.        On or about December 14, 2001, Unified employees observed a deviation 
between the market value of the Liquid Green portfolio and its value based on the amortized cost 
method of valuation.  As a result, Unified reviewed the eligibility of the Ineligible Securities and 
determined that such securities were not in compliance with Rule 2a-7.  After making the 
determination, Unified notified UIA and the Liquid Green board of directors that the fund held 
ineligible securities. 

       17.        Between December 17, 2001 and January 4, 2002, UIA sold all of the Ineligible 
Securities at a net loss of approximately $517,000.  In January 2002, UIA reimbursed Liquid 
Green for the full loss incurred in the sale of the Ineligible Securities.  Shortly thereafter, UIA 
entered into agreements to recover $100,000 from the fund’s independent auditor and $125,000 
from the fund’s counsel, the latter in the form of a partial forgiveness of a receivable due to the 
law firm.  Unified informed the Commission staff of the loss resulting from the sale of the 
Ineligible Securities in conjunction with an SEC examination in mid-January 2002. 

Florida Street - Improper Interest Accruals

       18.        On August 1, 1999, Florida Street became a portfolio of AF and Unified began 
providing fund accounting services pursuant to AF’s contract with Unified.  As of that date, the 
assets on Florida Street’s balance sheet included an unsubstantiated interest receivable of 
approximately $913,264, at least $195,120 of which was uncollectible.  Unified carried this 
balance over when it began providing accounting services to Florid a Street, and for over a year it 
did not take any steps to substantiate the accuracy and collectibility of the receivable that had 

                                              - 5 - 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

been recorded by the predecessor accountant.  Additionally, starting in August 1999, Unified’s 
fund accounting group failed to write off uncollectible interest for bonds in default and 
previously accrued interest for bonds no longer owned by the fund (i.e., bonds that were sold 
“flat” or for principal only).  This occurred at least in part because Unified failed to employ 
internal accounting controls adequate to assure that the interest receivable was accurate. 

       19.        Beginning in August 1999, when Unified became the fund’s administrator, 
Durham knew or acted with reckless disregard for whether Florida Street was carrying 
unsubstantiated interest on its books and records.  Among other things, Durham knew that the 
predecessor accountant had not provided Unified with accounting records needed to substantiate 
certain interest receivables on the books of Florida Street and that, as a result, the fund’s interest 
receivable balance had not been tied out to the interest sub-ledger for each bond in the fund.  
Durham also knew that the fund accountants could not reconcile the interest for bonds sold 
without the subledgers and did not create aged interest receivable reports.  Finally, Durham 
received a letter in April 2000 from Florida Street’s independent auditor warning him of 
unsubstantiated interest on Florida Street’s books.  Prior to late 2000, however, Durham 
continued to rely on the work product of the predecessor accountant, did not make any attempt to 
substantiate the accuracy and collectibility of the receivable that had been recorded by the 
predecessor accountant, and failed to put in place internal accounting controls adequate to assure 
that the interest receivable was accurate.  As a result, Durham was a cause of Florida Street’s 
failure to write off uncollectible interest on its books. 

       20.        During the 2000 year-end audit, the fund’s independent auditor requested that 
Unified substantiate Florida Street’s interest receivable.  From November 2000 through 
June 2001, Unified reviewed the interest receivable for collectibility.  By June 2001, Unified 
determined that Florida Street’s interest receivable was overstated by approximately $796,356 as 
of October 31, 2000 and by approximately $285,794 more for the first four months of the fiscal 
year ending October 31, 2001.  These amounts represented accrued interest that Unified 
determined to be uncollectible.  Starting in June 2001, Unified wrote off the uncollectible interest 
back to December 1, 1999.  The write off reduced the fund’s NAV for the year ending 
October 31, 2000 by approximately 4.7%. 

       21.        After writing off the interest, Unified re-priced the fund.  The repricing revealed 
that Florida Street’s daily NAV was overstated from December 1, 1999 through June 25, 2001 
by amounts ranging from $.01 to $.34 per share.  At its worst, the fund’s NAV was overstated by 
approximately 6.1%.  After the repricing, Unified recomputed shareholder transactions during 
the same period to ensure that no shareholders were harmed by the mispricing.  As a result of the 
recomputation, Unified voluntarily reimbursed the fund for investors who redeemed out during 
the period of the repricing and were consequently overpaid. 

       22.        By carrying the uncollectible interest on Florida Street’s books, Unified caused 
material misstatements in Florida Street’s April 30, 2000 semi-annual report, which Unified filed 
on December 12, 2000.  As a result of the failure to write off the uncollectible interest described 
above, the report overstated the fund’s interest receivable by approximately 35.2%, overstated 
the fund’s NAV by approximately 2%, and overstated the net investment income by 
approximately 21.56%.  The reported NAV per share was $7.33 but should have been $7.16.  
Unified knew or should have known, at the time it filed the report on behalf of the fund, that the 

                                               - 6 - 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

report contained material misstatements resulting from the failure to write off the uncollectible 
interest. 

        23.       The uncollectible interest also resulted in material misstatements and omissions in 
Florida Street’s audited October 31, 2000 annual report and unaudited April 30, 2001 semi-
annual report, both of which were prepared and filed by Unified.  The annual reports were also 
reviewed by the funds’ outside counsel and auditors.  Florida Street’s audited 2000 annual report, 
which was filed on March 22, 2002, four months after the fund closed, failed to disclose the 
interest write-off and subsequent repricing, which resulted in a lower NAV.  In addition, the 
2000 annual report misrepresented the fund’s distribution to shareholders from net investment 
income and failed to disclose a return of capital.  Florida Street reported $2,541,908 in net 
investment income after the interest write-offs.  Nevertheless, the fund also reported that it paid 
$3,338,264 in distributions to investors from net investment income.  Since the fund had no prior 
year net investment income from which it could make a positive distribution, only $2,541,908 of 
the $3,338,264 distributed to shareholders could possibly be attributed to net investment income.  
The difference, $796,356, was actually an undisclosed return of capital to investors, not a 
distribution of net investment income, on which some investors may have unknowingly paid 
taxes.  Unified prepared and filed the audited October 31, 2000 annual report which failed to 
disclose the repricing and return of capital even though Unified knew about the repricing and the 
return of capital no later than June 2001.  Some portion of this $796,356 difference should have 
been reflected on Forms 1099 for the 2000 taxable year that were issued to shareholders on 
January 15, 2001, and some portion of the remainder should have been reflected on Forms 1099 
for the 1999 and earlier taxable years. 

Late Filings by Unified Administered Funds 

       24.        From 2000 through 2002, portfolios of AF and AAT made late filings or failed to 
file required reports with the Commission.  As administrator, Unified was responsible for filing 
these reports.  At least 21 portfolios under AAT and AF failed to file their annual or semi-annual 
shareholder reports on time.  In addition, at least 27 portfolios failed to timely file their Form N-
SARs.  Finally, at least 9 portfolios under AF and AAT either failed to file Form 12b-25s 
notifying the Commission of an inability to timely file a Form N-SAR or filed the forms 
incorrectly.  These late filings were in part due to Unified’s failure to put in place adequate 
procedures to ensure that it timely received documents necessary to make the filings on or before 
their respective due dates. 

                                         VIOLATIONS 

       25.        As a result of the conduct described above, Unified willfully aided and abetted 
and caused, and Durham caused, AF to violate Rule 22c-1, promulgated pursuant to 
Section 22(c) of the Investment Company Act.  Rule 22c-1 requires registered investment 
companies to sell and redeem shares only “at a price based on the current net asset value of such 
security.” 

       26.        As a result of the conduct described above, Unified willfully violated Section 
34(b) of the Investment Company Act.  Section 34(b) prohibits any person from making any 
untrue statement of a material fact in any report, account, record, or other document filed or 

                                               - 7 - 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

required to be kept under Section 31(a) of the Investment Company Act.  Section 34(b) also 
prohibits any person filing or keeping those documents from omitting to state any fact necessary 
in order to prevent the statements made in those documents from being misleading.  Rule 2a-
7(b)(1) provides that it is a material misrepresentation in violation of Section 34(b) for a fund to 
hold itself out as a money market where it does not meet the risk limiting conditions of Rule 2a-
7(c).   

       27.        As a result of the conduct described above, Durham violated Section 34(b) of the 
Investment Company Act by making an untrue statement of a material fact in a report, account, 
record, or other document filed or required to be kept under Section 31(a) of the Investment 
Company Act. 

       28.        As a result of the conduct described above, Unified willfully aided and abetted 
and caused Unified Funds and AAT to violate Section 35(d) of the Investment Company Act.  
Section 35(d) prohibits any registered investment company from adopting as a part of its name or 
title any word or words that the Commission finds are materially deceptive or misleading.  Rule 
2a-7(b)(2) provides that “it shall constitute the use of a materially deceptive or misleading name 
within the meaning of Section 35(d) of the Act for a registered investment company to adopt the 
term “money market” as part of its name … unless such registered investment company meets 
the conditions of paragraphs (c)(2), (c)(3), and (c)(4) of [Rule 2a-7].” 

       29.        As a result of the conduct described above, Unified willfully aided and abetted 
and caused AAT and AF to violate Section 30(e) of the Investment Company Act and Rule 30e-1 
thereunder.  Section 30(e) of the Investment Company Act   and Rule 30e-1 thereunder requires 
every registered investment company to transmit to shareholders, at least semiannually, reports 
containing the financial statements and other information.  These reports must be transmitted to 
shareholders no later than sixty days after the close of the period for which the report is being 
made.   

       30.        As a result of the conduct described above, Unified willfully aided and abetted 
and caused AAT and AF to violate Section 30(b)(1) of the Investment Company Act and Rule 
30b1-1 thereunder and Rule 12b-25 under the Exchange Act.  Section 30(b)(1) and Rule 30b1-1 
thereunder require every registered investment company to file a semi-annual report on Form N-
SAR not more than sixty days after the close of each fiscal year and second quarter.  Rule 12b-
25(a) promulgated under the Exchange Act requires that if a registered management investment 
company cannot timely file its Form N-SAR, the company shall file a Form 12b-25 no later than 
one business day after the due date for the N-SAR filing. 

                             UNIFIED’S REMEDIAL EFFORTS 

       31.        In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts 
promptly undertaken by Unified in connection with the conduct described herein, including the 
following: 

              a.           firing or demoting four individuals; 
              b.           hiring a new Chief Executive Officer; 
              c.           hiring a new Chief Compliance Officer; 

                                              - 8 - 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

               d.           hiring a new Vice President in charge of mutual fund administration; and 
               e.           hiring several consulting firms to assist Unified in updating its fund 
                      accounting, fund administration and compliance procedures. 

                                      UNDERTAKINGS 

       32.    Independent Compliance Consultant.  Unified has undertaken:  

               a.           to hire, within 90 days of the entry of the Order, an Independent 
       Compliance Consultant not unacceptable to the staff of the Commission.  Unified shall 
       cause the Independent Compliance Consultant to review Unified’s (i) accounting and 
       compliance procedures applicable to Rule 2a-7, (ii) accounting policies and procedures 
       applicable to interest accruals, and (iii) compliance procedures applicable to the timely 
       filing of reports of the type described in paragraph 24 above.  The Independent 
       Compliance Consultant’s compensation and expenses shall be borne exclusively by 
       Unified or its affiliates.  Unified shall cooperate fully with the Independent Compliance 
       Consultant and shall provide the Independent Compliance Consultant with access to its 
       files, books, records and personnel as reasonably requested for the review; 

               b.           to require that, at the conclusion of the review, which in no event shall be 
       more than 120 days after the date of entry of the Order, the Independent Compliance 
       Consultant shall submit a Report to Unified and the staff of the Commission.  The Report 
       shall address the issues described in subparagraph 32.a. of these undertakings, and shall 
       include a description of the review performed, the conclusions reached, the Independent 
       Compliance Consultant’s recommendations for changes in or improvements to policies 
       and procedures of Unified and a procedure for implementing the recommended changes 
       in or improvements to Unified’s policies and procedures;  

               c.           to adopt all recommendations contained in the Report of the Independent 
       Compliance Consultant; provided, however, that within 150 days after the date of entry 
       of the Order, Unified shall in writing advise the Independent Compliance Consultant and 
       the staff of the Commission of any recommendations that it considers to be unnecessary 
       or inappropriate.  With respect to any recommendation that Unified considers 
       unnecessary or inappropriate, Unified need not adopt that recommendation at that time 
       but shall propose in writing an alternative policy, procedure or system designed to 
       achieve the same objective or purpose;  

               d.           that as to any recommendation with respect to Unified’s policies and 
       procedures on which Unified and the Independent Compliance Consultant do not agree, 
       such parties shall attempt in good faith to reach an agreement within 180 days of the date 
       of entry of the Order.  In the event Unified and the Independent Compliance Consultant 
       are unable to agree on an alternative proposal acceptable to the staff of the Commission, 
       Unified will abide by the determinations of the Independent Compliance Consultant;  

               e.           that Unified (i) shall not have the authority to terminate the Independent 
       Compliance Consultant, without the prior written approval of the staff of the 
       Commission; (ii) shall compensate the Independent Compliance Consultant, and persons 

                                              - 9 - 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

       engaged to assist the Independent Compliance Consultant, for services rendered pursuant 
       to the Order at their reasonable and customary rates; (iii) shall not be in and shall not 
       have an attorney-client relationship with the Independent Compliance Consultant and 
       shall not seek to invoke the attorney-client or any other doctrine or privilege to prevent 
       the Independent Compliance Consultant from transmitting any information, reports, or 
       documents to the Directors of Unified or its parent, Unified Financial Services, Inc. or the 
       Commission; and  

               f.           to require the Independent Compliance Consultant to enter into an 
       agreement that provides that for the period of engagement and for a period of two years 
       from completion of the engagement, the Independent Compliance Consultant shall not 
       enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional 
       relationship with Unified, or any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers, 
       employees, or agents acting in their capacity.  The agreement will also provide that the 
       Independent Compliance Consultant will require that any firm with which he/she is 
       affiliated or of which he/she is a member, and any person engaged to assist the 
       Independent Compliance Consultant in performance of his/    her duties under this Order 
       shall not, without prior written consent of the staff of the Commission, enter into any 
       employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with 
       Unified, or any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents 
       acting in their capacity as such for the period of the engagement and for a period of two 
       years after the engagement. 

       33.    Certification and Extension of Procedural Dates.  Unified undertakes that, no 
later than twenty-four months after the date of entry of the Order, its chief executive officer shall 
certify to the Commission in writing that Unified has fully adopted and complied in all material 
respects with the undertakings set forth in paragraph 32 above or, in the event of material non-
adoption or non-compliance, shall describe such material non-adoption and non-compliance.  For 
good cause shown, the Commission’s staff may extend any of the procedural dates set forth in 
paragraph 32 above. 

       34.    Record-keeping.  Unified undertakes to preserve for a period not less than five 
years from the date of this Order, the first two years in an easily accessible place, any record of 
their compliance with the undertakings set forth in paragraph 32 above.  

                                               IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest 
to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offers.  Accordingly, pursuant to Section 21C 
of the Exchange Act and Sections 9(b) and 9(f) of the Investment Company Act it is hereby 
ORDERED that: 

       A.         Unified cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Section 34(b) of the Investment Company Act, and to cease and desist from 
causing any violations and any future violations of Rule 12b-25 under the Exchange Act and 
Sections 30(b)(1), 30(e), 34(b) and 35(d) of the Investment Company Act and Rules 22c-1, 30e-1 
and 30b1-1 thereunder. 

                                              - 10 - 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

       B.          Durham cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Sections 34(b), and causing any violations and any future violations of Rule 
22c-1 under the Investment Company Act. 

       C.     Payment of Civil Monetary Penalty by Unified.  It is further ordered that Unified 
shall, within thirty days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money penalty in the amount of 
$125,000 to the United States Treasury.  Such payment shall be: (A) made by United States 
postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check or bank money order; (B) made 
payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission; (C) hand-delivered or mailed to the Office 
of Financial Management, Securities and Exchange Commission, Operations Center, 6432 
General Green Way, Stop 0-3, Alexandria, VA 22312; and (D) submitted under cover letter that 
identifies Unified as a Respondent in these proceedings, the file number of these proceedings, a 
copy of which cover letter and money order or check shall be sent to Robert J. Burson, Senior 
Associate Regional Director, Midwest Regional Office, Securities and Exchange Commission, 
175 West Jackson Boulevard, Suite 900, Chicago, Illinois 60604. 

       D.     Unified’s Compliance with Undertakings.  Unified shall comply with the 
undertakings set forth in paragraphs 32-34 above. 

              By the Commission. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                            Nancy M. Morris 
                                            Secretary 
 

                                             - 11 - 
