---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                   UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                                  before the 
                         SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

         
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 56087 / July 17, 2007 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 2640 / July 17, 2007 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-12698 
 
_______________________________                                                             
      : 
In the Matter of                                        :             
      : ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
Jay D. Bolding (CPA),                            :  PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
      : 102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
      : PRACTICE, MAKING                                                         FINDINGS, AND           
                             Respondent.                :            IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
_____________________________   :                                                    
 

                                                       I. 
                                                         
        The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in 
the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
Jay D. Bolding (“Bolding” or “Respondent”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission's 
Rules of Practice.  1
                       
         
                                                       II. 
                                                         
        In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Bolding has submitted an Offer of 
Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose 
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to 
the Commission's jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the 
findings contained in Section III.3. below, which are admitted, Bolding consents           to the entry of this 

                                                 
1
  Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  “The Commission, with due regard to the public 
interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before 
it any . . . accountant . . . who has been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent 
jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or 
aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and 
regulations thereunder.” 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of 
Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below. 
        
                                              III. 
  
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent's Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
       1.          Bolding, age 47, is a resident of Omaha, Nebraska.  He was licensed as a certified 
public accountant in Kansas and Tennessee; however, both licenses have lapsed.  He worked for 
approximately 14 years in public accounting as an auditor, including as a Senior Manager.  From 
January 1997 to the beginning of ConAgra’s fourth quarter of fiscal year 1999 (March 1999), he 
was the head of ConAgra Food, Inc.’s (“ConAgra”) Internal Audit department.  From March 
1999 until approximately April 2004, he served as ConAgra’s Corporate Controller.  Until his 
resignation on June 1, 2006, he held the position of Senior Vice President for Capital and Market 
Investment Effectiveness at ConAgra.    
 
       2.           ConAgra, a Delaware corporation with headquarters in Omaha, Nebraska, is a 
diversified international food company.  ConAgra’s common stock is registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 
Act”), and trades on the New York Stock Exchange.  ConAgra’s fiscal year ends on the last 
Sunday in May of each year. 
 
       3.           On June 29, 2007, the Commission filed a complaint against Bolding in SEC v. 
James P. O’Donnell, et al. (Civil Action No. 07-cv-01373-RPM).  On July 6, 2007, the court 
entered a final judgment against Bolding which permanently enjoined Bolding, by consent, from 
future violations of Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1, and from aiding and abetting violations of 
Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rules 12b-
20, 13a-1 and 13a-13.  Bolding was also ordered to disgorge (a) $345,790, plus prejudgment 
interest of $129,816, and (b) $117,207, representing the market value, determined as of the date 
the Commission accepts Bolding’s settlement offer, of 4,341 shares of ConAgra common stock; 
and to pay a $125,000 civil money penalty. 
                                
       4.           The Commission's complaint alleged, among other things, that Bolding directed 
ConAgra’s improper accounting for excess reserves in fiscal year 2000, that he did not ensure that 
ConAgra properly accounted for its income tax expense in fiscal year 1999 and that he should 
have known that the ConAgra’s disclosure in note 14 to the financial statements regarding the 
reduction of its income tax expense in its Form 10-K for fiscal year 1999 was inaccurate.  The 
complaint also alleged that Bolding knew, or should have known, about ConAgra’s improper 
accounting for excess reserves in fiscal year 2001.  Further, the complaint alleged that Bolding was 
aware about improper accounting practices at United Agri Products (“UAP”), a subsidiary of 
ConAgra, involving the improper recognition of revenue and the failure to record adequate bad 
debt expense in fiscal year 2000.  According to the allegations in the complaint, as a result of the 
improper accounting, which was not in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
(“GAAP”), certain of ConAgra’s filings with the Commission between fiscal year 1999 and the 
third quarter of fiscal year 2001 were materially false and misleading because they overstated 
ConAgra’s reported income before income taxes, net income and earnings per share.  In addition, 

                                               2
---------------------Page 3---------------------

ConAgra’s registration statement related to its proposed merger with International Home Foods, 
Inc. (“IHF”) filed on Forms S-4 and S-4/A in June and July of 2000, respectively, were materially 
false and misleading.  Additionally, the complaint alleged that Bolding violated, and aided and 
abetted ConAgra’s violations of, the provisions of the federal securities laws as noted in Section 
III.3. above.   
                                                  
                                               IV. 
         
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Bolding’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.          Bolding is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
        
       B.           After one (1) year from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief 
Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
 
               1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company's  financial statements that are filed with the Commission. Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent's work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the inde pendent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
               2.            an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 

                      (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)        Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which 
he is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any 
criticisms of or potential defect s in the Respondent's or the firm's quality control system that 
would indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
 
                      (c)         Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of  any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
                       

                     (d)         Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply 

                                                3
---------------------Page 4---------------------

with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 
        
       C.          The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and 
he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  
However, if state licensure is  dependant on reinstat ement by the Commiss ion, the Commission 
will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission's review may include 
consideration of, in addition to the matters re ferenced above, any other matters relating to 
Respondent's character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice 
before the Commission. 

       By the Commission. 

        
                                                            Nancy M. Morris  
                                                            Secretary 
 

                                                4
