---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED                                  STATES OF AMERICA 
 before                                            the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  54677 / October 31, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2506 / October 31, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12468 
                                              
      :  
                                             :     
          In the Matter of                   :             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                   :             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
           DOUGLAS W. MARCILLE, CPA,   :             102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                   :             PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
           Respondent.                         : IMPOSING REME            DIAL SANCTIONS 
                              :      
____________________________________ :              
 
                                                I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Douglas 
Marcille, CPA (“Respondent” or “Marcille”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1
                     
                                                II. 
                                                  
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the finding contained in paragraph III.3., below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
  On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
                     1.           Marcille, age 49, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to 
practice in the State of Massachusetts.  He served as Chief Financial Officer of U.S. Gas & Electric, 
Inc. (“U.S. Gas”) from December 2002 until September 2004 when he became the company’s Chief 
Executive Officer, a position he currently holds. 
        
                     2.           U.S. Gas is a Delaware corporation with its principal place of business in 
North Miami, Florida.  U.S. Gas is engaged in the business of retail sales of natural gas.  At all 
relevant times, U.S. Gas’s common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 
12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”).  
 
                     3.           On September 27, 2006 the Commission filed a complaint against Marcille 
in SEC v. U.S. Gas & Electric, Inc. et al., (Civil Action No. C-06-22440-CIV-LENARD).  On 
October 23, 2006 the court entered an order permanently enjoining Marcille, by consent, from 
future violations of Sections 5(a), 5(c), 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933.   
 
               4.           The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that during the 
time Marcille was its Chief Financial Officer, U.S. Gas, with the participation of its officers, 
including Marcille, made material misstatements and omissions to investors in several unregistered 
offerings concerning the use of proceeds.  Specifically, the complaint alleges that U.S. Gas, with 
the participation of its officers, including Marcille, failed to disclose to investors that excessive 
commissions were being paid to telemarketers out of the offering proceeds, and made 
misrepresentations to investors in one of the offerings regarding the amount of management fees 
that would be paid out of investor funds. 
 
                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Marcille’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
              A.          Marcille is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
              B.          After three years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                                         (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight        Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Respondent, or the registered                            public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

   (c) Respondent has resolved all di                           sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
   (d) Respondent acknowledges                               his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                   3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

         C.       The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

                                                                4 
