---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                
                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                         Before the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  53882 / May 30, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2434 / May 30, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.   3-12304 
________________________ 
    : ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST  
In the Matter of                        :             PROCEEDINGS, MAKING FINDINGS AND   
    : IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER  
 Tribune Company, : PURSUANT                      TO SECTION 21C OF THE 
    : SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Respondent.   :  
________________________:    
 
                                              I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Tribune Company (“Tribune” or 
“Respondent”). 
 
                                             II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the  
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting 
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order 
Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.  
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               III. 
  
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
 
                                            Summary 
  
              1.           From at least January 2002 to March 2004, two Tribune newspapers, Newsday 
and Hoy, falsely inflated their paid circulation figures.  As a consequence, Tribune reported 
inflated average paid circulation figures and erroneous circulation trends for these newspapers to 
the Commission and the investing public in its Forms 10-K for the years ended December 29, 
2002, and December 28, 2003.  The company also reported erroneous circulation trends based on 
the inflated paid circulation figures for these newspapers in its Forms 10-Q for the first quarter 
ended March 31, 2002, through the first quarter ended March 28, 2004.  Moreover, in the same 
Forms 10-K and 10-Q, Tribune misstated its accounts receivable and accounts payable, as well 
as its circulation revenues and expenses as they related to Newsday and Hoy.  This occurred 
because, at the time, Tribune did not have sufficient internal controls in place at these two 
newspapers.  In 2004, Tribune revised downward the average paid circulation figures previously 
reported by Newsday and Hoy and disclosed that it had recorded a pretax charge of $90 million 
in anticipation of settling advertisers’ claims related to the inflated paid circulation figures 
reported by Newsday and Hoy.   
 
                                           Respondent 
 
              2.           Tribune is a Delaware holding company with its principal executive office located 
in Chicago, Illinois.  Tribune operates a publishing and broadcasting and entertainment business. 
Among other things, the company publishes fourteen daily newspapers in, among other places, 
New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, Fort Lauderdale and Orlando.  Tribune’s common stock is 
registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and is listed on 
the New York Stock Exchange.      
 
                                       “Paid Circulation” 
 
              3.           Advertisers consider several factors in selecting the newspapers in which they run 
advertisements.  One significant consideration is the size of a publication’s audience.  
Advertisers want to run their advertisements in newspapers with potentially the largest audiences 
so that their advertisements will be viewed by as many customers as possible.  The customary 
means by which newspaper publishers convey the size of their potential audiences to advertisers 
is by publicly disseminating the number of newspapers that they sell at or above a specified 
minimum price on weekdays and Sundays.  Consequently, newspaper publishers and advertisers 
consider these “paid circulation” figures when negotiating advertising rates, and advertisers are 
more likely to pay publications that report higher paid circulation figures more money for their 
advertising space.        
 
              4.           In 1914, in recognition of the importance of paid circulation figures to advertisers, 
the publishing industry established its first circulation auditing organization to verify publishers’ 

                                                2
---------------------Page 3---------------------

circulation claims (the “Circulation Bureau”).  The Circulation Bureau is a voluntary, not-for-
profit organization whose members include both advertisers and publishers.  The purpose of the 
Circulation Bureau is to ensure the integrity and accuracy of the circulation figures reported by 
its member publishers through, among other means, standardized circulation reporting and 
circulation audits.  Member publishers agree to compile and report their paid circulation figures 
in accordance with reporting rules adopted by the Circulation Bureau and to submit to circulation 
audits conducted by the Circulation Bureau’s audit staff.  Between January 2002 and March 
2004, all of Tribune’s principal newspapers were members of the Circulation Bureau and their 
paid circulation figures were audited annually by the Circulation Bureau.  Further, during that 
period, the Circulation Bureau’s reporting rules, among other things, defined “paid circulation” 
generally to include newspapers that were sold for an amount equal to or greater than a specified 
minimum price.      
  
       5.           Paid circulation is an important measure used to evaluate the business 
performance of publishing companies, which typically draw about 75% of their revenues from 
advertisers.  Publishing industry analysts have observed in their reports and in conference calls 
that paid circulation is a metric used by publishers and advertisers to set advertising rates, and 
that there is a relationship between paid circulation and advertising revenues.    
      
                                       Newsday and Hoy 
 
              6.          In June 2000, Tribune merged with the Times Mirror Company.  In connection 
with the merger, Tribune acquired Newsday and Hoy and six other daily newspapers.  Newsday, 
which has been published since 1940 and is Tribune’s third largest newspaper in terms of paid 
circulation, is distributed primarily on Long Island, New York and in parts of New York City.  
Hoy, a Spanish-language newspaper, has been published and distributed in New York City since 
1998.  In late 2003, Tribune embarked on a plan to distribute Hoy nationally by introducing the 
newspaper in Chicago.  In early 2004, Tribune began distributing Hoy in Los Angeles.   
 
              7.           From June 2000 to March 2004, Newsday operated as a subsidiary of Tribune, 
and Hoy operated as a division of Newsday.  The newspapers had separate publishers, but shared 
many of the same personnel responsible for circulation.  The publishers and most of the 
Directors and Vice Presidents of Circulation and other senior circulation personnel at Newsday 
and Hoy remained the same from the time that Tribune acquired the newspapers in June 2000 
until June 2004.  In February 2004, Tribune initiated an internal investigation into alleged 
circulation improprieties at Newsday and Hoy.  As a consequence of the investigation, between 
June and September 2004, Tribune identified various schemes being used at Newsday and Hoy to 
inflate the newspapers’ paid circulation figures and forced the publishers at Newsday and Hoy to 
retire and terminated all of the circulation personnel at Newsday and Hoy, including the Directors 
and Vice Presidents of Circulation, associated with falsely inflating the newspapers’ paid 
circulation figures. 
 
              8.           Between January 2002 and March 2004, Tribune generated approximately 73% of 
its operating revenues from its publishing business.  Newsday, which included Hoy’s operations, 
accounted for approximately 15% of Tribune’s total publishing revenues.  In 2002 and 2003, 
Newsday’s operating revenues (including Hoy) were $609 million and $622 million, 

                                                3
---------------------Page 4---------------------

respectively.  At least three quarters of Newsday’s operating revenues (including Hoy) were 
attributable to advertising sales.   
 
 
 
                    Newsday and Hoy’s Inflated Paid Circulation Figures  
                                                  
       9.           From at least January 2002 to March 2004, the publishers of Newsday and Hoy set 
ambitious circulation goals for their circulation management staff.  In order to meet the goals set 
by the publishers, the Directors and Vice Presidents of Circulation and other circulation 
personnel (collectively the “Circulation Personnel”) at Newsday and Hoy engaged in several 
schemes to generate fictitious sales and thereby inflate the newspapers’ paid circulation figures.  
Although the schemes varied, they by and large fell into three categories.  The first category 
involved circular and wash agreements with single copy dealers and home delivery agents that 
made it falsely appear as if the dealers and agents had purchased newspapers from Newsday                                             and 
Hoy that they, in fact, did not buy.  The second category involved newspapers that Newsday and 
Hoy claimed as paid circulation, but actually distributed for free or at prices that were less than 
the minimum price required to qualify the sales as paid circulation.  The third category involved 
the practice of shifting returns. 
 
              10.        During the relevant period, the Circulation Personnel at Newsday and Hoy entered 
into various sales arrangements with single copy dealers and home delivery agents for the sole 
purpose of generating fictitious sales in order to boost the newspapers’ paid circulation figures.  
The arrangements varied from dealer-to-dealer and agent-to-agent, but generally operated in the 
same manner.  Under these arrangements, the dealers and agents paid Newsday and Hoy for 
newspapers that were distributed to customers for free or, in some cases, were not distributed at 
all.  Newsday and Hoy, in return, paid the dealers and agents incentive payments and fees for 
cartage and other purported services in amounts equal to or in excess of the cost of the 
newspapers.  Although Newsday and Hoy did not earn monies from the sale of the newspapers 
under these arrangements, the structure of the agreements and payments made it falsely appear as 
if Newsday and Hoy had been paid for the newspapers and thus were recorded as paid 
circulation. 
 
              11.        The Circulation Personnel at Newsday and Hoy also inflated the newspapers’ paid 
circulation figures by claiming as paid circulation newspapers that were distributed for free or at 
prices that were less than the minimum price required to qualify the sales as paid circulation.  
These included newspapers that were distributed for up to ninety days to customers who did not 
order the newspapers and whose delivery was automatically suspended for nonpayment.  It also 
included newspapers that were distributed to schools and colleges which were falsely represented 
as having been paid for by third-parties.  Furthermore, it included newspapers distributed on days 
other than Sundays to customers who had paid only for the Sunday editions of Newsday and 
Hoy.   
        
              12.        In addition to generating the fictitious sales described above, the Circulation 
Personnel at Newsday and Hoy engaged in the practice of “shifting returns” in order to inflate the 
publications’ paid circulation figures.  Each day, Newsday and Hoy calculated their single copy 

                                                4
---------------------Page 5---------------------

sales by subtracting the number of newspapers that their single copy dealers returned to them 
unsold at the end of the day from the daily “draw.”  The draw was the number of newspapers that 
Newsday and Hoy distributed in the morning to its dealers for sale.  In order to boost sales 
figures on weekdays and Sundays, which were of principal interest to advertisers, Newsday and 
Hoy did not always recognize all of the newspapers that were returned to them unsold on 
weekdays and Sundays.  Instead, they would “shift” the returns to less important days by 
recording the dealers’ returns on weekdays and Sundays against their draws on Saturdays, 
holidays and other special days that were excluded from the circulation analysis. 
 
               Tribune’s Inaccurate Books and Records and Periodic Reports 
                                                        
       13.        By fabricating sales and shifting returns, the Circulation Personnel at Newsday 
and Hoy were able to inflate the average paid circulation figures that they reported to Tribune, 
and which Tribune in turn reported to the public, for Newsday and Hoy for the six-months ended 
September 30, 2002, and for the six-months ended September 30, 2003, as follows: 
 
              Reported Average  Actual Average   % of Over-   Reported Average  Actual Average   % of  Over- 
             Paid Circulation as   Paid Circulation as Statement Paid Circulation as   Paid Circulation as Statement 
             of September 2002 of September 2002   2002       of September 2003 of September 2003   2003 
                                                      
  Newsday         579,000          509,000         14%            580,000          455,000          27% 
   Daily 
  Newsday         677,000          595,000         14%            678,000          569,000          19% 
  Sunday 
   Hoy           78,000            52,000          50%            94,000            52,000          81% 
   Daily 
   Hoy              30,000         24,000          25%            35,000            27,000          30% 
  Sunday 
                                                    
        14.        In order to fabricate the sales and shift the returns that allowed them to inflate  
Newsday and Hoy’s paid circulation figures as noted above, the Circulation Personnel at 
Newsday and Hoy entered into sham agreements and prepared or caused to be prepared false 
draw, return and billing records.  The Circulation Personnel at Newsday and Hoy were successful 
in doing this because they had control over all aspects of the publications’ circulation processes, 
including, but not limited to, executing and reviewing dealer and agent agreements, establishing 
draws and recording returns, fixing rates and fees, determining the amounts to be paid to vendors 
and collecting amounts owed by vendors.  Between January 2002 and March 2004, both 
Newsday and Hoy were members of the Circulation Bureau and their paid circulation figures 
were audited annually by the Circulation Bureau.  Tribune, however, did not evaluate the 
Circulation Bureau’s audit procedures or separately verify its audit findings.  In addition, 
Tribune lacked sufficient internal controls to detect the types of schemes that the Circulation 
Personnel at Newsday and Hoy employed to inflate the publications’ paid circulation figures.  
Newsday and Hoy’s inflated paid circulation figures therefore went undetected by Tribune during 
the relevant period.  
 
              15.        As a result of the inflated circulation figures at Newsday, Tribune disseminated 
paid circulation numbers to the public in press releases, earnings conferences and other public 
statements that showed that Newsday was experiencing small, but steady growth in its paid 
circulation and that it was successfully competing against several other daily newspapers in its 
market.  Tribune also disseminated paid circulation figures to the public that showed that Hoy’s 
paid circulation was growing substantially and at a rapid rate.  Relying on the paid circulation 

                                                 5
---------------------Page 6---------------------

figures reported to it by Hoy, Tribune stated in earnings conferences, press releases and other 
public statements that Hoy was the largest Spanish-language newspaper in New York and that it 
had surpassed the circulation of a well-known, competing daily Spanish-language newspaper.           
        
       16.        As a result of its failure to detect the schemes being used to inflate Newsday and 
Hoy’s paid circulation figures, Tribune reported inflated average paid circulation figures and 
circulation trends for these newspapers to the Commission and to the public in its Forms 10-K 
for the years ended December 29, 2002, and December 28, 2003.  The company also reported 
erroneous circulation trends based on the inflated paid circulation figures for these newspapers in 
its Forms 10-Q for the first quarter ended March 31, 2002, through the first quarter ended March 
28, 2004.  In addition, in the same Forms 10-K and 10-Q, Tribune misstated its accounts payable 
and accounts receivable, as well as its circulation revenues and expenses as they related to 
Newsday and Hoy.         
                                                  
                             Tribune’s $90 Million Pretax Charge    
 
              17.        As part of its internal investigation, Tribune conducted circulation audits of all of 
its daily newspapers.  The internal circulation audits revealed that Newsday and Hoy inflated 
their paid circulation figures as described above.  As a result, in 2004, Tribune recorded pretax 
charges totaling $90 million to settle anticipated claims by advertisers.  Tribune recorded $35 
million in charges in the second quarter of 2004 and $55 million in the third quarter of 2004.  
The charges reduced Tribune’s income before taxes for those quarters by 18% and 21%, 
respectively.  The internal circulation audits that Tribune conducted of its other daily newspapers 
did not uncover any material misstatements in their previously reported paid circulation figures. 
  
                           Tribune’s Violations of the Exchange Act 
 
              18.        Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13, thereunder, 
require issuers that have securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act to file 
annual and quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q, respectively.  Rule 12b-20 requires that 
the reports be complete and accurate. 
 
              19.        Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires reporting companies under 
Section 12 of the Exchange Act to make and keep books, records and accounts, which, in 
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the issuer’s 
assets.   
 
              20.        Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires reporting companies to devise 
and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances 
that, among other things, transactions are recorded as necessary (i) to permit preparation of 
financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any other 
criteria applicable to such statements, and (ii) to maintain accountability for assets.   
 
              21.        As a result of the conduct described above, Tribune violated Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13, 
thereunder. 

                                                 6
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 
 
 
 
                               Remedial Efforts and Cooperation by Tribune 
 
              In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts promptly 
undertaken by Tribune and the cooperation that Tribune afforded the Commission staff. 
 
                                                              IV. 
 
              In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Tribune’s offer. 
 
              Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED: 
 
              A.         Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, that Tribune cease and desist from 
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) 
and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13, thereunder. 
 
              By the Commission. 
 
 
        Nancy M. Morris 
        Secretary 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                               7
