---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                          the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 55149 / January 23, 2007 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2545 / January 23, 2007 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12544 
 
 
                                           
                                           
In the Matter of                          ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                          PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) 
       SUZANNE BROWN, CPA                 OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                          PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
Respondent.                               IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                           
 
                                                           
                                              I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Suzanne 
Brown, CPA (“Respondent” or “Brown”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules 
of Practice.1
                                              II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.4 below, which are admitted, Respondent 

                                                 
1
       Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by 
       order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has been by name . . . 
       permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an 
       action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of 
       the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations thereunder.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
        
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
              1.           Suzanne Brown, age 40, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to 
practice in the State of Pennsylvania.  She served as Corporate Controller of U.S. Foodservice, Inc. 
(“USF”) in its Columbia, Maryland headquarters.  Brown joined USF in July 1998, and served as 
an Assistant Controller until her promotion to Controller in late 2001.   
 
              2.           Royal Ahold (Koninklijke Ahold N.V.) (“Ahold”) is a publicly-held company 
organized in the Netherlands with securities registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 
12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”).  Ahold’s common stock trades in 
the United States on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AHO as evidenced by 
American Depositary Receipts. 
 
 3. USF, a foodservice and distribution company wi            th headquarters in Columbia, 
Maryland, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ahold. 
        
       4.           On January 11, 2007, a final judgment was entered against Brown, permanently 
enjoining her from future violations of Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 
10b-5 and 13b2-1 thereunder, and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder, in the civil 
action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Suzanne Brown, Civil Action Number 07-
0038, in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia.  Brown was also ordered to 
pay a $100,000 civil penalty. 
        
       5.           The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Brown and 
executives of USF engaged in a large-scale fraud that, for fiscal years 2001 and 2002, materially 
overstated income by approximately $700 million in Commission filings and other public 
announcements.  The Complaint further alleged that Brown, in conjunction with USF executives, 
made or directed others to make entries, including releases of reserves and accruals, in USF’s 
books and records that she knew, or was reckless in not knowing, were false, without basis in fact, 
and did not comply with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.  The Complaint also alleged 
that Brown, in conjunction with USF executives, provided Ahold’s independent auditors with false 
and/or misleading information in connection with their reviews and audit of USF’s financial 
statements. 
 
   

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                 IV. 
 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Brown’s Offer. 
        
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
        
                     A.          Brown is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant. 
        
                     B.          After five (5) years from the date of this Order, Respondent may request 
that the Commission consider her reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of 
the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
        
                                   1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such an 
application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in her practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company for 
which she works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as she practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
             
                                   2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
             
                                  (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which she is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
        
                                   (b)         Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which she 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of 
or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; and  
        
         (c) Respondent has resolved all di                   sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
        
         (d) Respondent acknowledges her re                      sponsibility, as long as Respondent 
appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards. 
        
                     C.          The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that her state CPA license is current and 
she has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  
However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 

                                                  3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 
        
        
              By the Commission. 
 
                                                        
                                                                     Nancy M. Morris 
                                                                     Secretary 
  

                                                  4 
