---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                              STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                       the 

                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 52258 / August 15, 2005 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2291 / August 15, 2005 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12013 
                                                 
                                                
                                                
In the Matter of 
                             ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                               ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
                                                PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
JOHN V. BACK, Jr., CPA,  
                      COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                                MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                                REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
Respondent. 
                                     
 
 
 
 
                                                
 
                                           I.  
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against John V. 
Back, Jr. (“Respondent” or “Back”) pursuant to  Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1 
         
                                             
                                           II.  
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 

                                                 
1
  Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
      The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
      practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or 
      improper professional conduct.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative 
Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and 
Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds2
                                                                                that: 
 
       1.     John V. Back, Jr., 54, a certified public accountant formerly licensed in Arizona,3 
                                                                                              
was a KPMG LLP (“KPMG”) audit partner in charge of KPMG’s fiscal 1999 audit of First 
American Health Concepts, Inc. (“FAHC”).  Back served as audit engagement partner for KPMG  
audits of FAHC’s financial statements for fiscal years 1993 through 1999, as originally filed with 
the Commission, and issued unqualified reports thereon.  Back retired from KPMG in June 2002. 
 
       2.     FAHC was an Arizona corporation headquartered in Phoenix with common stock 
registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
and listed on the American Stock Exchange.  As of January 31, 2001, FAHC had 2,635,691 shares 
of common stock outstanding.  FAHC marketed and administered vision care programs including 
programs underwritten by various insurance carriers.  In 2001, Luxottica  Group S.p.A., an Italian 
company, acquired FAHC.  FAHC is no longer a public company. 
 
       3.     FAHC materially overstated its assets and net income in reports filed with the 
Commission for its 1999 fiscal year by significantly overstating its accounts receivable.  In its 1999 
10-K, filed October 29, 1999, FAHC reported accounts receivable of $2.4 million and pretax 
income of $693,000. 4
                      According to a restatement FAHC filed on December 20, 2000, the 
receivables were overstated by approximately $892,000 and, but for the overstatement, FAHC’s  
fiscal 1999 pre-tax income would have been a loss of $199,000. 
  
       4.     Back was the KPMG audit engagement partner responsible for the July 31, 1999 
audit of FAHC.  He was also the audit engagement partner for the KPMG audit work for a June 6, 
2000 restatement of FAHC’s 1999 financial statements.  That restatement failed to correct the 
overstatement of accounts receivable; the correction was not made until after KPMG resigned on 
July 24, 2000 and was replaced by Pannell Kerr Forster (“PKF”) who performed the fiscal 2000 
audit.  PKF’s discovery of the overstated accounts receivable resulted in the FAHC December 20, 
2000 restatement.  
                                                 
2 
   The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.    
 
3 
   On August 15, 2003, the Arizona State Board of Accountancy and Back entered into a 
decision and order, by consent, by which Back relinquished his certificate to practice as a 
certified public accountant.  
 
4 
   FAHC operated with a July 31 fiscal year end.  
                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

        
       5.      In October 1998, KPMG issued a “management letter” to FAHC that described “the 
lack of timely reconciliations between the accounts receivable subsidiary ledgers and the general 
ledger” as the most significant problem noted during the fi  scal 1998 audit.  When he supervised the 
1999 audit, Back knew, or should have known, that the problem had not been corrected, that 
reconciliations had not been performed and that the total of individual accounts did not agree with 
the general ledger balance.  Neither Back nor anyone he supervised reconciled the receivables, 
determined the amount of the unreconciled difference, or secured independent confirmation of 
individual accounts receivable balances to determine the extent of errors, in accordance with 
generally accepted auditing standards (“GAAS”).  
        
       6.      Back knew, or should have known, that when KPMG          issued its audit report on 
FAHC’s 1999 fiscal year, FAHC’s accounts receivable balances should have been reconciled for 
two years.  Yet he falsely represented that KPMG’s audit had been performed in accordance with 
GAAS and that FAHC’s financials complied with generally accepted accounting principles. 
        
       7.      In the fall of 1999, Back was replaced as the FAHC audit engagement partner 
pursuant to KPMG’s seven-year partner rotation policy.  The new audit engagement and 
concurring review partners discovered several  apparently unintentional accounting errors that 
required a restatement of the 1999 financial statements.  Back was assigned audit engagement 
partner responsibility for the restatement.  However, in auditing the restatement, Back again failed 
to reconcile the accounts receivable balances in accordance with GAAS. 
 
       8.      Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Back engaged in improper 
professional conduct pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
                                                 
                                                  IV. 
                                                    
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanction 
agreed to in Respondent Back’s Offer.  
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that John V. Back, Jr. is  
denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant.   
                                   
   
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
 
       Jonathan                                                     G. Katz
       Secretary                                                  

                                                   3
  
