---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                      the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 56097 / July 18, 2007 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2646 / July 18, 2007 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12701 

                                        : 
                                        : 
                                        : 
      In the Matter of                  :      ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                        :      PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
     JEFFREY McMAHON, CPA,              :      102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                        :      PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
             Respondent.                :      IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                        : 
                                        : 
____________________________________ : 

                                           I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Jeffrey 
McMahon (“Respondent” or “McMahon”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1 

                                          II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 

1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 

      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 

              1.      Jeffrey McMahon, age 46, is a certified public accountant licensed to 
practice in the State of Texas.  He served as Treasurer of Enron Corp. (Enron), from April 1998 
until May 2000, as Chief Financial Officer from October 2001 until February 2002, and as Chief 
Operating Officer from February 2002 until June 2002, when he voluntarily resigned from Enron. 

              2.      Enron was, at all relevant times, an Oregon corporation with its principal 
place of business in Houston, Texas.  Until its bankruptcy filing in December 2001, Enron was the 
seventh largest corporation in the United States based on reported revenue.  In the previous ten 
years, Enron had evolved from a regional natural gas provider to a commodity trader of natural 
gas, electricity, and other physical commodities with retail operations in energy and other products.  
The Company also created and traded financial products.  At all relevant times, the common stock 
of Enron was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities and 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and traded on the New York Stock Exchange. 

              3.      On July 6, 2007, a final judgment was entered against McMahon, 
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange 
Act and Exchange Act Rules 10b-5 and 13b2-1, and from aiding and abetting violations of 
Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rules 12b-20, 
13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder, in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. 
Jeffrey McMahon, Civil Action Number H-07-2051, in the United States District Court for the 
Southern District of Texas.  McMahon also was ordered to pay disgorgement of $109,275, 
prejudgment interest of $40,725, and a civil money penalty of $150,000. 

              4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that McMahon 
 participated in a fraudulent asset parking arrangement that allowed Enron to improperly record 
 $12 million in earnings in the fourth quarter of 1999.  The complaint also alleged that McMahon, 
 while serving as Enron’s Treasurer from April 1998 until May 2000, made several false and 
 misleading statements and omissions to the national credit rating agencies regarding the stability, 
 predictability, and sources of Enron’s cash flows.   In addition, the Complaint alleges that 
 McMahon made similar false and misleading statements to the rating agencies while serving as 
 Enron’s Chief Financial Officer during the crisis period prior to Enron’s bankruptcy filing, 
 October – December 2001.   

                                               2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent McMahon’s’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     McMahon is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 

       B.     After three years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 

              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 

                      (a)    Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision;

               (c)           Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      (d)    Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 

       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
                                               3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependant on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

 By       the Commission. 

       N                                              ancy M. Morris
       S                                             ecretary 

                                                4

