---------------------Page 1---------------------

   

                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                          Before the  
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 59980 / May 27, 2009 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 2976 / May 27, 2009 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-12810 

                            :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Brian R. Spires, CPA  
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                           
        

       On September 19, 2007, Brian R. Spires (“Spires”) was denied the privilege of appearing 
or practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public administrative 
proceedings instituted by the Commission against Spires pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the 
Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                  This order is issued in response to Spires’ application for 
reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant responsible for the 
preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed with the Commission. 

              The Commission found that, as the engagement manager, Spires participated in the 
planning and execution of Deloitte & Touche LLP’s audit of National Century Financial 
Enterprises, Inc.’s (“NCFE”) 2000 consolidated financial statements.  Spires failed to plan and 
execute the 2000 audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards (“GAAS”).  He 
failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to corroborate that NCFE’s receivables 
portfolio consisted of permitted receivables or to properly evaluate the adequacy of NCFE’s 
allowance for losses relating to those receivables.  Spires also did not properly evaluate red flags 
during the audit which should have alerted him to NCFE’s non-permitted advances and its 
borrowers’ inability to repay those advances.  Additionally, Spires failed to obtain sufficient 
competent evidential matter with regard to the nature and substance of material related party 
transactions.  Many of these transactions with related parties were non-permitted advances.   
 

                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2720 dated September 19, 2007.  Spires was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after one year upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                    

       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Spires 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Spires is not, at this time, seeking to appear 
or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume 
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be 
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Spires’ 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Spires, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the September 19, 2007 order 
denying him the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, 
that no information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, 
integrity, professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be 
a basis for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of 
Practice, and that Spires, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit 
committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, in his practice before the Commission as a preparer    or reviewer of financial 
statements required to be filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  
Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Brian R. Spires, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                               
                                               
                                              Elizabeth M. Murphy  
                                              Secretary  
                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
 

                                                 2
