---------------------Page 1---------------------

   

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 59047 / December 3, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No.  2904 / December 3, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-11582 

                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Gary L. Seidelman, CPA  
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                          
        

       On August 11, 2004, Gary L. Seidelman, CPA (“Seidelman”) was denied the privilege of 
appearing or practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against Seidelman pursuant to Rule 
102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                              Seidelman consented to the entry of the order 
without admitting or denying the findings therein.  This order is issued in response to 
Seidelman’s application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 

                  From the first quarter of 1998 through the first quarter of 2000, certain of Anicom, 
Inc.’s (“Anicom”) officers and employees engaged in improper earnings management techniques 
that inflated Anicom’s revenues by over $38 million and net income by over $20 million.  
During this period, Seidelman served as the engagement partner for PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP’s audits and interim reviews of the financial statements of Anicom.  The Commission found 
that Seidelman engaged in improper professional conduct within the meaning of Rule 
102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice in connection with PwC’s 1999 audit and 
first quarter 2000 interim review of Anicom’s financial statements.  The Commission 
additionally found that Seidelman violated Section 10A(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (“Exchange Act”) and that Seidelman caused Anicom’s violations of Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder. 
                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2078 dated August 11, 2004.  Seidelman was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after three years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Seidelman 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Seidelman is not, at this time, seeking to 
appear or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to 
resume appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will 
be required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Seidelman’s 
denial of the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an independent 
accountant continues in effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has 
been made in this regard in accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 
        
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Seidelman, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the August 11, 2004 order 
denying him the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, 
that no information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, 
integrity, professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be 
a basis for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of 
Practice, and that Seidelman, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit 
committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, in his practice before the Commission as a preparer     or reviewer of financial 
statements required to be filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  
Therefore, it is accordingly, 
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
 

                                                 2
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Gary L. Seidelman, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                            
                                            
                                           Florence E. Harmon 
                                           Acting Secretary  

                                              3
