---------------------Page 1---------------------

                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                          before the 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 58672 / September 29, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2892 / September 29, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13248 

                                          : 
                                          : 
                                          : 
       In the Matter of                   :      ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                          :      PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
        KEVIN MORANO (CPA),               :      102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                          :      PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
              Respondent.                 :      IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                          : 
                                          : 
____________________________________ : 

                                             I. 

       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Kevin 
Morano (“Respondent” or “Morano”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1 

1 
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 

       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by order, . . . 
suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has been by name . . . permanently 
enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the 
Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of 
the rules and regulations thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 

              1.      Morano, age 55, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to 
practice in the State of New Jersey.  He served as Chief Financial Officer of Lumenis Ltd. 
(“Lumenis”) from March 2002 until August 2004. 

              2.      Lumenis was, at all relevant times, an Israeli corporation with corporate 
executive offices in New York, New York.  Lumenis was engaged in the business of manufacturing 
laser and light based systems for aesthetic, surgical and other applications.  At all relevant times, 
Lumenis’ common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and traded on the NASDAQ National Market. 

              3.      On September 9, 2008, a final consent judgment was entered against 
Morano, permanently enjoining him from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 
1933 and Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 13a-14, 13b2-1 and 
13b2-2 thereunder, and from aiding and abetting violations of Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) 
and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 
thereunder, in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Lumenis, Ltd., et 
al., Civil Action Number 06 CV 3225 (LAK), in the United States District Court for the Southern 
District of New York.  Morano also was ordered to pay a $55,000 civil money penalty.   

              4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Morano 
permitted Lumenis to recognize revenue in a number of transactions despite red flag warnings that 
should have prevented such recognition and, as a result, made materially false and misleading 
statements in periodic reports filed with the Commission in 2002 and 2003, including by certifying 
the accuracy of financial statements contained in those reports.  Morano neither admitted nor 
denied the allegations of the complaint. 

                                               2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Morano’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     Respondent is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   

       B.     After five years from the date of this Order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 

              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 

                      (a)    Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision;

               (c)           Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      (d)    Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 

       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
                                               3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

 By       the Commission. 

       F                                             lorence E. Harmon
       A                                              cting Secretary 

                                                4

