---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                          Before The  
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No.  53391 / March 1, 2006 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No.  2389 / March 1, 2006 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No.   3-12225 

                            :  
                            :  
                              ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC  
In the Matter of            :  
                              ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS, MAKING  
                            :  
                              FINDINGS AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL  
Michael A. Conway, CPA,  :  
                              SANCTIONS PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e)  
                            :  
                              OF THE COMMISSION'S RULES OF PRACTICE  
Respondent.                 :  
                            :  

                                               I.  

The Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission") deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
Respondent Michael A. Conway, CPA ("Conway" or "Respondent") pursuant to Rule 
102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice. 1
                                                     

                                              II.  

In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Conway has submitted an Offer of 
Settlement ("Offer"), which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of 
these proceedings and any other proceeding brought by or on behalf of the Commission or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings, except as to the 
Commission's jurisdiction over the subject matter of these proceedings and as to the entry of the 
injunction set forth in Section III, which are admitted, Conway consents to the entry of this Order 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
  
     The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by order . . . 
suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who . . . has been by name     . . . permanently 
enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction by reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the 
Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of 
the rules and regulations thereunder.  
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings, Making Findings and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice ("Order"). 

                                               III.  

On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  

A. Conway, age 62, is a certified public accountant licensed in New York and was, during the 
relevant period covered by this Order, a partner at KPMG LLP (“KPMG”).  Conway was the  co-
engagement partner for Xerox Corporation (“Xerox” or the “Company”) for the year 2000. 
Conway retired from KPMG in 2004.  

B. KPMG is a national public accounting firm and, during the relevant period covered by this 
Order, served as the independent public accountant for Xerox.  

C. Xerox is a New York corporation with its principal place of business in Stamford, 
Connecticut.  At all times pertinent to the period covered by this Order, the common stock of 
Xerox was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") and traded on the New York Stock Exchange.  Xerox’s fiscal year 
ends on December 31. 

D. On January 29, 2003, the Commission filed a complaint against Conway and others in the 
United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. SEC v. KPMG LLP, et al., 
No. 03-0671 (DLC).  On February 27, 2006, the Court entered a final judgment permanently 
enjoining Conway from violating Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act of 1933 
(“Securities Act”) and from aiding and abetting violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act 
and Rules12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder.  Conway consented to the entry of the final 
judgment without admitting or denying the allegations of the Commission's complaint.  2

E. The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Conway violated Sections 
17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act and aided and abetted violations of Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder.  The complaint alleged that in the 
course of serving as the co-engagement partner for Xerox, Conway authorized the issuance of 
the KPMG audit report that accompanied the 2000 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed by Xerox 
with the SEC.  That audit report stated that KPMG conducted an audit of Xerox’s financial 
statement in accordance with Generally Accepted Auditing Standards, that KPMG planned and 
performed the audit to obtain reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free of 
material misstatement, that KPMG assessed the accounting principles used and significant 
estimates made by Xerox management and that it evaluated the overall consolidated financial 
statement presentation.  The audit report further represented that, as a result of KPMG’s audit, it 
was KPMG’s opinion that Xerox’s financial statements presented fairly, in all material respects, 
                                                 
2
 Scienter is not required to prove violations of Sections 17(a)(2) or (3) of the Securities Act.  Aaron v. SEC, 446 
U.S. 680, 697 (1980).  Violations of these sections may be established by showing negligence alone.  SEC v. 
Hughes Capital Corp., 124 F.3d 449, 453-54 (3d Cir. 1997); SEC v. Steadman, 967 F.2d 636, 643 n.5 (D.C. Cir. 
1992). 
 

                                                2
---------------------Page 3---------------------

Xerox’s financial position and results of operations in conformity with Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles.  The Complaint further alleged that each of these representations was 
materially false and misleading or omitted to disclose material information which would make 
the statements not false and misleading. 

                                                 IV.  

In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
accept Conway’s Offer of Settlement. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.         Conway is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 

              B.          After two (2) years from the date of this order, Conway may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Conway’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                                         (a)         Conway, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, 
is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance 
with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                                          (b)        Conway, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of 
or potential defects in Conway’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that 
Conway will not receive appropriate supervision; 

   (c) Conway has resolved all disc                           iplinary issues with the Board and has 
complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
   (d) Conway acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Conway 
appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards. 
      

                                                  3
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Conway to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Conway’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or 
qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

          By the Commission. 

                                                                       Nancy M. Morris 
      Secretary 
 
 

                                                 4
