---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                         Before the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 58662 / September 26, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2889 / September 26, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13240 

In the Matter of                               ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                               ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
       URS KAMBER, CA                          PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                               COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
       Respondent.                             MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                               REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 

                                             I. 

       The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) deems it appropriate and in 
the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Urs 
Kamber (the “Respondent” or “Kamber”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1 

                                             II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.2. below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 
1 
       Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 

       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by order, . . . 
suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accou ntant . . . wh o has  been by name . . .  permanently 
enjoined by any court of c ompetent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an act ion brought by the 
Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of 
the rules and regulations thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions (the “Order”), as set forth below. 

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 

              1.      Kamber, age 55, is a charter ed accountant (“CA”) licensed to practice in 
Switzerland, and has been since 1979.  From September 2001 through October 2003, he was the 
Chief Fi nancial Officer of Ce nterpulse Ltd., a  Swiss public com pany th at m anufactured and 
marketed va rious medical devices.   From January 2001 through Octobe r 2003, Centerpulse’s 
American Depository Shares were registered in the United States pursuant to Section 12(b) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) and were  traded on the New York Stock 
Exchange under the symbol “CEP.” 

              2.      On August 1, 2008, a final judgm      ent was  entered against Ka  mber, 
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange 
Act and Rules 10b-5, 13a-14 and 13b2-1 thereunder, and from aiding and abetting future violations 
of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 
13a-16 t hereunder, i n t he civil act ion entitle d  Securities and Exchan ge Commission v. Urs 
Kamber, et al., Civil Action Number 1:07-cv-01867 (JDB), in the United States District Court for 
the District of Columbia.  Kamber was also ordered to pay $65,013 in disgorgement of ill-gotten 
gains, $22,824 in prejudgment interest, and a $50,000 civil money penalty. 

              3.      The Commission’s complaint alleged that Kamber and others engaged in a 
fraudulent scheme to inf late Centerpulse’s reported earnings  during the second hal f of 2002 by 
manipulating reserves a nd refusing to rec ognize expe nses and liabiliti es.   The complaint also 
alleged that, as a result of t he scheme, Centerpulse issued and furnished to the Commission false 
and misleading earnings releases for the third and  fourth quarters of 2002, and issue d and file d 
with the Commission a false and misleadi  ng  annual report for fi scal 2002, whic h m aterially 
overstated Centerpulse’s third quarter 2002 reported pretax income by approximately $32 million, 
and its fourth quarter 2002 and fiscal year 2002 reported pretax income by at least $26.4 million. 

                                              -2
-
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Kamber’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     Kamber is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 

       B.     After 5 years from the date of this Order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention:  Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or

        2.            an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 

                      (a)    Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)    Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      (d)    Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 

       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his status as an accountant is 

                                              -3
-
---------------------Page 4---------------------

current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable board of 
accountancy.  However, if resolution of any disciplinary action by a board of accountancy 
is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an 
application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in 
addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 

 By       the Commission. 

       F                                             lorence E. Harmon
       A                                              cting Secretary 

                                               -4
-
