---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                      the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  55842 / June 1, 2007 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2613 / June 1, 2007 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12646 

                                        : 
                                        : 
                                        : 
      In the Matter of                  :     ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                        :     PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
        ROBIN R. SZELIGA (CPA),         :     102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                        :     PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
      Respondent.                       :     IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                        : 
                                        : 
____________________________________ : 

                                          I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Robin 
R. Szeliga (“Respondent” or “Szeliga”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules 
of Practice.1 

1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 

      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 

              1.      Szeliga, age 46, of Littleton, Colorado, was employed with Qwest 
Communications International Inc. (“Qwest”) from approximately 1997 to August 2003.  Szeliga 
was Qwest’s chief financial officer and executive vice president of finance from March 2001 to 
July 2002. Prior to that, she was Qwest’s senior vice president of financial planning and analysis 
and reporting. Szeliga was a certified public accountant (“CPA”) licensed in Colorado at the time 
of her misconduct.  

              2.      Qwest, based in Denver, Colorado, is a telecommunications and Internet 
services company.  At all relevant times, Qwest’s common stock was registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange 
Act").  Qwest’s common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange.   

              3.      On March 15, 2005, the Commission filed a complaint against Szeliga in 
SEC v. Joseph P. Nacchio, et al. (Civil Action No. 05-cv-00480-MSK-CBS) in the United States 
District Court for the District of Colorado.  On May 30, 2007, the court entered an order 
permanently enjoining Szeliga, by consent, from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities 
Act of 1933, Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 
thereunder, and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2) of the Exchange Act 
and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder.  Szeliga was also ordered to pay 
$226,135 in disgorgement of ill-gotten gains, plus $100,917 in prejudgment interest, and a 
$250,000 civil money penalty.  The court further ordered that Szeliga be barred permanently from 
acting as an officer or director of any issuer that has a class of securities registered pursuant to 
Section 12 of the Exchange Act or that is required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the 
Exchange Act. 

              4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that from at 
least April 1, 1999 through March 31, 2002, Szeliga and others at Qwest engaged in a massive 
financial fraud that hid from the investing public the true source of the company’s revenue and 
earnings growth.  The complaint alleged that to meet aggressive targets for Qwest’s revenue and 
earnings growth, Qwest fraudulently and repeatedly relied on immediate revenue recognition 

                                               2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

from one-time sales of assets known as “IRUs” and certain equipment, while falsely claiming to 
the investing public that the revenue was recurring.  The complaint also alleged that Szeliga 
fraudulently and materially misrepresented Qwest’s performance and growth to the investing 
public, failed properly to account for IRU sales transactions in Qwest’s financial statements, and 
caused the company to report falsely approximately $3 billion in revenue.  The complaint alleged 
that Szeliga failed to make required accounting disclosures about IRUs to the investing public.  
In addition, the complaint alleged that, to meet revenue targets, Szeliga caused the manipulation 
of revenue associated with Qwest Dex, formerly a wholly-owned subsidiary of Qwest.  
Additionally, the complaint alleged that Szeliga fraudulently lowered liabilities related to 
employee vacations to increase artificially Qwest’s earnings to meet revenue and growth targets.  
The complaint further alleged that Szeliga sold Qwest stock knowing that Qwest had issued 
materially false information to the investing public in violation of the insider trading prohibition 
of the securities laws. 

                                               IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Szeliga’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       Szeliga is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   

 By       the Commission. 

       N                                              ancy M. Morris
       S                                             ecretary 

                                                3

