---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                      the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 59500 / March 4, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2942 / March 4, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13389 
 
                                               
In the Matter of                               
                                              ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
      Sherry J. Polonsky                      PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO SECTION 
                                              21C OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
Respondent.                                   OF 1934, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                              IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER  
 
 
                                                
 
                                           I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Sherry J. Polonsky (“Polonsky” or 
“Respondent”). 
                                          II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making 
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                          III. 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1
                                                                                  that: 
        
 
                                           Respondent 
                                                  
       1.      Polonsky, 47 and a resident of Winston-Salem, North Carolina, was Vice President 
of Finance and then Senior Vice President of Finance for Krispy Kreme Doughnuts, Inc. (“Krispy 
Kreme” or the “Company”) between January 2002 when she joined the Company and her 
resignation on June 17, 2005.  Krispy Kreme is a public issuer and doughnut retailer and franchisor 
based in North Carolina.  Polonsky’s responsibilities at Krispy Kreme included overseeing 
segments of the Company’s accounting, financial reporting, and tax functions. 
                                            Overview 
       2.      In the third and fourth quarters of Krispy Kreme’s 2004 fiscal year, Polonsky 
caused Krispy Kreme to record improperly two round-trip transactions in connection with the 
acquisition of Company franchises located in Michigan and California.  In both transactions, 
Krispy Kreme paid money to the franchisee with the understanding that the franchisee would pay 
the money back to Krispy Kreme.  In each instance, Krispy Kreme recognized additional income in 
an amount roughly equal to the funds that were paid back to it. 
       3.      As a result, Krispy Kreme filed annual, quarterly, and current reports with the 
Commission that contained misstated financial results, failed to have books and records that 
accurately and fairly reflected its transactions and disposition of assets, and failed to devise and 
maintain internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that its accounts 
were accurately stated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 
                                 First Round Trip Transaction 
       4.      The first round trip transaction occurred at the end of October 2003, four days 
before the closing of Krispy Kreme’s third quarter of its fiscal year 2004, in connection with the 
acquisition of a franchise located in Michigan. 
       5.      Specifically, as part of the acquisition transaction, the Company agreed to increase 
the price it paid for the franchise by $535,463, which represented an approximation of the total of 
two amounts that Krispy Kreme claimed it was owed by the franchisee, with the understanding that 
the franchisee would pay the disputed amounts to Krispy Krem  e as part of the acquisition’s 
closing.  The Michigan franchisee had refused to pay these amounts and only agreed to pay them 
after Krispy Kreme offered to increase the purchase price in an amount intended to cover the 
disputed items.   
       6.      Polonsky was told in an e-mail that the purchase price for the franchise would be 
increased by the approximate total of the two disputed amounts so that those amounts would be 
paid to Krispy Kreme as part of the acquisition’s closing.  In addition, a coworker discussed with 
Polonsky increasing the purchase price to resolve remaining issues.  Despite the email and this 
                                                 
       1
         The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding 
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
 
                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

conversation with the coworker, Polonsky directed that Krispy Kreme recognize income and 
reclassify expenses in an amount equal to the total of the two disputed items. 
       7.     As a result, when the acquisition closed, Krispy Kreme paid an increased purchase 
price of $535,463, and recorded the transaction on its books and records as if it had been paid for 
the two disputed amounts.  This overstated the Company’s net income in the third quarter by 
approximately $310,000 after taxes. 
 
                               Second Round Trip Transaction 
       8.     The second round-trip transaction occurred in January 2004, in the fourth quarter of 
Krispy Kreme’s 2004 fiscal year, in connection with Krispy Kreme’s acquisition of the remaining 
interests in a franchise located in California, in which Krispy Kreme already owned a majority 
interest. 
       9.     Specifically, beginning in or about October 2003, Krispy Kreme initiated 
negotiations with the remaining interest holders for acquisition of their interests.  During those 
negotiations, the franchise manager of the California franchise, who individually owned 25% of 
the franchise, ceased to manage the California franchise and Krispy Kreme, through its employees, 
assumed his management responsibility. 
       10.    During the course of negotiations, Krispy Kreme sought from the former franchise 
manager a “management fee” as compensation to Krispy Kreme for the handling of his previous 
management duties after October 2003.  Krispy Kreme suggested that such a fee be subtracted 
from any amounts due the former franchise manager at closing for his 25% interest in the 
franchise. 
       11.    The former franchise manager refused to agree that any amount should be deducted 
from the proceeds of the sale of his interest to Krispy Kreme. 
       12.    A few days before the scheduled closing of the transaction and only about a week 
before the end of the fourth quarter of Krispy Kreme’s 2004 fiscal year, Polonsky communicated 
to the former franchise manager a proposal by Krispy Kreme that he accept a distribution from his 
capital account in the franchise, that he could then pay back to Krispy Kreme as a management fee.  
The former franchise manager was further told that at closing he would still receive the full amount 
of the previously negotiated consideration for his 25% interest in the franchise. 
       13.    By offering a non-pro rata distribution from the former franchise manager’s capital 
account while at the same time assuring the former franchise manager that he would receive the 
full amount of the previously agreed upon consideration for his 25% interest, Krispy Kreme was 
orchestrating a round-trip transaction that lacked economic substance. 
       14.    Krispy Kreme made a distribution to the former franchise manager from his capital 
account in the amount of $597,415, which he immediately transferred back to Krispy Kreme as 
payment of the management fee.  Polonsky caused Krispy Kreme to book this fee as income, 
thereby overstating Krispy Kreme’s net income in the fourth quarter by approximately $361,000 
after taxes. 

                                               3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                       Respondent’s Violations 
        15.     As a result of the conduct described above, Polonsky caused Krispy Kreme to 
violate Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13, 
thereunder, which require every issuer of a security registered pursuant to Section 12 of the 
Exchange Act file with the Commission information, documents, and annual, quarterly, and 
current reports as the Commission may require, and mandate that periodic reports contain such 
further material information as may be necessary to make the required statements not misleading. 
        16.     As a result of Polonsky’s actions, Krispy Kreme’s books, records and accounts did 
not, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect its transactions and dispositions of assets. 
        17.     In addition, as a further result of Polonsky’s actions                         , Krispy Kreme failed to devise 
and maintain a system of internal accounting controls relating to its franchise acquisitions that were 
sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that its accounts were accurately stated in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles. 
        18.     As a result of the conduct described above, Polonsky caused Krispy Kreme to 
violate Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to make and 
keep books, records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their 
transactions and dispositions of their assets. 
        19.     Lastly, as a result of the conduct described above, Polonsky caused Krispy Kreme 
to violate Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, which requires all reporting companies to 
devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable 
assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements 
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 
                                                   IV. 
                                                      
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Polonsky’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
              Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent Polonsky cease and desist from 
causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B), of 
the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder. 
 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth M. Murphy 
       Secretary 

                                                    4 
