---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                            STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                     the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  57180 / January 22, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2772 / January 22, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12796 

In the Matter of                            ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND 
                                            IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
      STORY & COMPANY, P.C.,                PURSUANT TO SECTION 4C OF THE 
      AND BRIAN L. STORY, CPA,              SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
                                            AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
Respondents.                                COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE 

                                          I. 

      On September 13, 2007, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) issued 
an Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 4C of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, and Notice of Hearing against 
Story & Company, P.C. (“the Firm”) and Brian L. Story, CPA (“Story”).   The Firm and Story will 
be referred to hereafter collectively as “Respondents.” 

                                         II. 

      Respondents have submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”) which the Commission has 
determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings 
brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without 
admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and 
the subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of 
this Order Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions Pursuant to Section 4C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offer, the Commission finds 1
                                                                                that: 

A.     RESPONDENTS 

       1.     The Firm is a Colorado professional corporation and public accounting firm 
headquartered in Centennial, Colorado.  The Firm prepared and issued an audit report dated 
February 11, 2004, in connection with its audit of Regatta Capital Partners, Inc. (“Regatta 
Capital”). 

       2.     Story, 68, of Littleton, Colorado, is a certified public accountant licensed in 
Colorado and Nebraska since 1974.  As engagement partner on the Regatta Capital engagement, 
Story participated in the preparation and issuance of the February 11, 2004 Regatta Capital audit 
report. 

B.     FACTS 

       1.     Regatta Capital is a Colorado corporation based in Denver, Colorado.  During the 
relevant period, Regatta Capital’s common stock traded on the OTC Bulletin Board.  Its common 
stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 (“Exchange Act”).  Regatta Capital reported $2,128 in revenue and total assets of $9,115 
for its fiscal year ended 2003.  During the relevant period, Regatta Capital was known as Monet 
Entertainment, Ltd. 

       2.     Regatta Capital has at all relevant times been an issuer as defined by the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Act”). 

       3.     The Firm audited Regatta Capital’s financial statements included in Regatta 
Capital’s annual report for fiscal year 2003 on Form 10-KSB, filed with the Commission on March 
29, 2004. 

       4.     The Firm prepared and issued an audit report dated February 11, 2004, which was 
included in Regatta Capital’s Form 10-KSB. 

       5.     Story participated in auditing the financial statements included in Regatta Capital’s 
annual report for fiscal year 2003 on Form 10-KSB, filed with the Commission on March 29, 
2004. 

       6.     Story participated in the preparation and issuance of an audit report dated February 
11, 2004, which was included in Regatta Capital’s Form 10-KSB. 

       7.     Although Respondents were aware of the registration requirement, at no point was 
the Firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”). 

1 
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                               2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

       8.      The Firm received $1,100 for conducting an audit of Regatta Capital’s financial 
statements for its fiscal year 2003 and for issuing an audit report on those financial statements. 

C.     VIOLATIONS 

       1.      Section 4C(a) of the Exchange Act provides, in relevant part, that the Commission 
“may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the privilege of 
appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found by the 
Commission … (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others … or (3) to have 
willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the securities 
laws or the rules and regulations issued thereunder.” 

       2.      Rule 102(e)(1) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides that the 
Commission “may censure a person or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
appearing or practicing before it in any way to any person who is found by the Commission ... (i) 
not to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others … or (iii) to have willfully violated … 
any provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.” 

       3.      Section 102(a) of the Act provides that “it shall be unlawful for any person that is 
not a registered public accounting firm to prepare or issue, or to participate in the preparation or 
issuance of, any audit report with respect to any issuer.”2 

       4.      The provisions of Section 102(a) of the Act became effective on October 22, 2003.      3 

       5.      Based on the conduct described above, the Firm willfully    4
                                                                             violated Section 102(a) 
of the Act. 

D. FINDI       NGS 

       1.      Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that the Firm and Story did not 
possess the requisite qualifications to represent others. 

       2.      Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that the Firm willfully violated 
Section 102(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

2 
       A violation of the Act or any rule that the PCAOB issues under the Act is treated for all purposes in the 
same manner as a violation of the Exchange Act, including with respect to penalties.  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 
15 U.S.C.A. § 7202(b)(1) (West 2002). 
3 
       Section 102(a) became effective “[b]eginning 180 days after the date of the determination of the 
Commission under Section 101(d)” of the Act that the PCAOB was prepared to undertake its statutory 
responsibilities.  The Commission made the required determination on April 25, 2003.  See Order Regarding Section 
101(d) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Securities Act of 1933 Release No. 8223, Exchange Act Release No. 
47746, 2003 WL 1956164  (Apr. 25, 2003). 
4 
       “Willfully” as used in this Order means intentionally committing the act that constitutes the violation. 
There is no requirement that the actor also be aware that he is violating a rule or statute.  See Wonsover v. SEC, 205 
F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000); Tager v. SEC, 344 F.2d 5, 8 (2d Cir. 1965). 

                                                   3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       1.     Story & Company, P.C. 

              A.      The Firm is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant. 

              B.      After one year from the date of this Order, the Firm may request that the 
Commission consider its reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

                      1.  a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that the Firm’s work in the Firm’s practice before 
the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public 
company for which the Firm works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as the Firm 
practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 

                      2.  an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 

                             (a)  the Firm is registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective.  However, if 
registration with the PCAOB is dependent upon reinstatement by the Commission, the 
Commission will consider an application on its other merits; 

                             (b)  the Firm has resolved all disciplinary issues with the PCAOB, 
and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the PCAOB (other 
than reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                             (c)  the Firm acknowledges responsibility, as long as the Firm 
appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the PCAOB, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   

                                               4

---------------------Page 5---------------------

              C.      The Commission will consider an application by the Firm to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that the Firm’s state CPA license is 
current and the Firm has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the 
Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may 
include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating 
to the Firm’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice 
before the Commission. 

       2.     Brian L. Story, CPA 

              A.      Story is censured. 

              B.      Story may practice before the Commission as an independent accountant 
provided that: 

                      1.     The public accounting firm with which he is associated is 
registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the Act, and such registration continues to be 
effective; and  

                      2.     He has submitted to the Commission staff (Attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) the PCAOB’s letter notifying the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated that its registration application has been approved.

 By       the Commission. 

       N                                              ancy M. Morris
       S                                             ecretary 

                                               5

