---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                       

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                      Before the  
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No.  56084 / July 17, 2007 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2639 / July 17, 2007 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No.  3-12697 

                                              :   ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
In the Matter of                              :   DESIST PROCEEDINGS, MAKING 
                                              :   FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A 
             Paul Anthony Davis,              :   CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
                                              :   PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF 
Respondent.                                   :   THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
                                              :   OF 1934 
                                              :

                                        I.      

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Paul Anthony Davis 
(“Davis”) pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”). 

                                        II.    

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Davis has submitted an Offer of 
Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose 
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are 
admitted, Davis consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, 
Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below. 

                                            

                                            

                                            

                                            

 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 

                                               III. 

                                            FACTS 

            On the basis of this Order and Davis’ Offer, the Commission finds  1
                                                                                 that: 

       A.     Respondent 
 
       Davis, age 41, resides in Lafayette, Colorado.  Davis is a founding partner of a venture 
capital firm located in Boulder, Colorado.  In June 2003, Davis facilitated the creation of a 
company, Sourceworks USA LLC (“Sourceworks”), to enter into a software license transaction 
with Quovadx, Inc.   
        
       B.     Related Party 
 
       Quovadx, Inc. (“Quovadx”), a Delaware corporation based in Englewood, Colorado, is a 
software company that sells software licenses and related services to the health care industry.  
Quovadx’s stock was registered with the Commission under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act 
during the relevant time and traded on the NASDAQ National Market.  During 2002 and 2003, 
Quovadx derived about one-third of its reported revenue from sales of software licenses, with the 
rest coming from maintenance and service contracts.  Quovadx separately reported its software 
licensing revenue, which included sales of both software and licenses.2
        
       C. Summary         
        
       In the second quarter of 2003, Quovadx improperly recognized approximately $570,000 
in software licensing revenue from the purported sale of software licenses to Sourceworks.  
Sourcework’s payment for that software was contingent upon Quovadx securing a contract for 
Sourceworks with the anticipated end-user of the software.  As a result of this transaction, 
Quovadx materially overstated its software licensing revenue by over 9% for the second quarter 
of 2003 and violated the reporting provisions of the Exchange Act.  On August 16, 2004, 
Quovadx restated its financial results to correct for the Sourceworks transaction, among others.  
Davis negotiated with Quovadx on behalf of Sourceworks and knew or should have known that 
Quovadx could not have recognized revenue from this transaction.  Accordingly, Davis was a 
cause of Quovadx’s reporting violations.   

       D.         Applicable Accounting Principles for Software Sales 

       As a public company, Quovadx was required to file quarterly and annual reports with the 
Commission that presented its financial results in conformity with Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (“GAAP”).  AICPA Statement of Position 97-2, Software Revenue 
Recognition (“SOP 97-2”) governs the recognition of revenue for sales of software and software 
licenses. 
                                                 
1
              The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding 
       on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
2
              Throughout this Order, “software sales” and “software license sales” are used interchangeably. 

                                               -2-
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 

       Under SOP 97-2, a company may not recognize revenue from a software license sale 
unless and until there is:  persuasive evidence of an arrangement; delivery of the software; a 
fixed or determinable seller’s fee; and a reasonable probability of collecting the accounts 
receivable.  Further, if payment is substantially contingent on the buyer’s success in distributing 
the product to the end user, either due to the terms of the deal or because the buyer is so 
undercapitalized that it cannot pay until it sells the product, the seller may not recognize the 
software license revenue at the time of sale. 

       In the second quarter of 2003, Quovadx recognized revenue from a transaction with 
Sourceworks that did not conform to SOP 97-2 and that materially overstated the company’s 
financial results. 

       E. The Sourceworks Transaction          

       In early 2003, a senior salesperson at Quovadx solicited the Veterans’ Administration 
(“VA”) to buy licenses for Quovadx’s Insurenet software, a product for processing patient 
medical insurance information.  The VA refused to buy the licenses, but expressed an interest in 
using the software and periodically paying Quovadx a fee based on the number of insurance 
transactions that it processed.  Quovadx was not interested in this proposal.  The Quovadx 
salesperson therefore suggested a plan, approved by members of Quovadx’s then senior 
management, whereby Quovadx would sell the licenses to a third-party, which would then enter 
into a contract with the VA to offer the software on a per-use basis.   

       The Quovadx salesperson then contacted Davis, a partner of a Colorado-based venture 
capital firm, and proposed that Davis’ firm buy the Insurenet licenses from Quovadx.  The 
Quovadx salesperson told Davis that, in return, Quovadx would negotiate a contract for the firm 
to license the software on a per-use basis to the VA.  As the end of the second quarter of 2003 
approached, Davis agreed in principle to this proposal.  However, because the venture capital 
firm was not a software reseller, Davis said that the firm would not pay for the Insurenet licenses 
unless and until Quovadx obtained the promised user contract.  The Quovadx salesperson 
expressed confidence that Quovadx would obtain the contract with the VA early in the third 
quarter.  With that understanding, Davis facilitated the creation of a company, Sourceworks USA 
LLC, in late June 2003 to buy the Insurenet licenses from Quovadx and enter into the user 
contract with the VA.  On June 30, 2003, Quovadx and Sourceworks executed a contract 
requiring Sourceworks to pay Quovadx $600,000 for the Insurenet licenses.  The contract, which 
gave Sourceworks six months to pay Quovadx, did not indicate that Sourceworks’ payment to 
Quovadx was contingent upon Quovadx successfully negotiating a VA deal for Sourceworks. 

       Despite the material contingency to the Sourceworks transaction, Quovadx recognized 
the entire $600,000 in the second quarter, based upon the June 30, 2003 contract.  It issued a 
press release on July 23, 2003, touting the company’s second quarter financial results, which 
included the Sourceworks revenue.  For the next eight months, Quovadx attempted to secure a 
contract for Sourceworks.  However, these negotiations ultimately failed.  As a result, other than 
one $30,000 payment in August 2003, Sourceworks did not pay Quovadx for the Insurenet 

                                              -3-
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 

licenses.3
           Because Sourceworks did not pay the remaining $570,000, Quovadx’s new senior 
management and auditor reviewed the Sourceworks transaction in the Spring of 2004 and 
reversed the revenue as part of a restatement on August 14, 2004. 

       As a result of its improper recognition of the Sourceworks revenue, Quovadx overstated 
its software licensing revenues by $570,000, or approximately 9%, in the second quarter of 
2003.4

                                               IV. 
                                                  
                                   LEGAL CONCLUSIONS 

       Reporting Violations 

       Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder require that 
issuers with securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, such as Quovadx, file 
quarterly reports with the Commission and keep this information current.  These reports must be 
complete and accurate in all material respects.  United States v. Bilzerian, 926 F.2d 1285, 1298 
(2d Cir. 1991); SEC v. Savoy Indus., Inc., 587 F.2d 1149, 1165 (D.C. Cir. 1978), cert. denied, 
440 U.S. 913 (1979).  Rule 12b-20 of the Exchange Act requires that an issuer’s periodic reports 
include any additional information “necessary to make the required statements, in the light of the 
circumstances under which they are made, not misleading.”  The issuer’s legal obligation 
“extends not only to accurate quantitative reporting of the required items in its financial 
statements, but also to other information, qualitative as well as quantitative, needed to enable 
investors to make informed decisions.”  In re Sony Corp. and Sumio Sano, 67 SEC Docket 1609, 
1998 WL 439898 at *4 (Aug. 5, 1998). 

       Quovadx improperly recognized revenue from the transaction with Sourceworks.  As a 
result, Quovadx’s quarterly report for the second quarter of 2003 and its earnings release for the 
second quarter of 2003 (attached to the Form 8-K that Quovadx filed with the Commission on 
July 24, 2003) contained materially false and misleading statements concerning Quovadx’s 
software licensing revenue.  Accordingly, Quovadx violated Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act 
and Rules 12b-20, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder. 

       Because he was involved in negotiating the Sourceworks transaction with Quovadx, 
Davis knew or should have known that the Sourceworks contract did not reflect the material 
contingency that existed in the deal – namely, that Sourceworks could not and would not pay for 
the Insurenet software license unless and until Quovadx negotiated the VA contract.  
Accordingly, Davis was a cause of Quovadx’s violations of Sections 13(a) of the Exchange Act 
and Rules 12b-20, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder.   
                                                 
3
              Sourceworks has since demanded that Quovadx return the $30,000; Quovadx has not done so.  
       Sourceworks, in turn, has rejected Quovadx’s demand for payment of the $570,000 balance due 
       on the purchase of the licenses. 
4
              Owing to the Sourceworks transaction, Quovadx overstated its software licensing revenue in its 
       July 23, 2003, Form 8-K, which incorporated its preliminary earnings results and its quarterly 
       report for the second quarter of 2003 filed with the Commission on August 5, 2003. 

                                               -4-
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 

                                             V. 
                                               
                                        FINDINGS 

       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Davis was a cause of Quovadx’s 
violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-11, and 13a-13 
thereunder. 

                                             VI. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Davis’ Offer. 

       Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that: 

       Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Davis cease and desist from causing any 
violations and any future violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-
11, and 13a-13 thereunder. 

       By the Commission. 

        

                                                  Nancy M. Morris  
                                                  Secretary 

 

 

                                             -5-
