---------------------Page 1---------------------

                       UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                BEFORE THE 

                SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  57303 / February 11, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2783 / February 11, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12953 

                                 :
                                 : 
In the Matter of                 :      ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                 :      ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
                                 :      PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
      Robert A. Fish, CPA,       :      COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                 :      PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                 :      IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
Respondent.                      : 
                                 :
______________________________  : 

                                       I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate 
that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Robert A. 
Fish (“Respondent” or “Fish”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules 
of Practice.1 

                                      II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted 
an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.  
Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on 
behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting 
or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and 

1
  Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 

      The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
      appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have 
      engaged in . . . improper professional conduct. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

the subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the 
entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below. 

                                         III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds2
                                                                                that: 

A.     RESPONDENT 

       Fish, 60, resides in Rockville Centre, New York.  Fish, now retired, is a certified 
public accountant licensed to practice in the states of New York, New Jersey and 
Connecticut.  As PricewaterhouseCoopers’ (“PwC”) engagement partner for the audits of 
Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc.’s (“Take-Two”) financial statements from fiscal 
year 1994 to 2001, Fish served as the engagement partner assigned to audit Take-Two’s 
financial statements as of and for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2000 (“fiscal year 
2000”).  On December 13, 2000, Fish signed the PwC audit report containing an 
unqualified audit opinion accompanying Take-Two’s fiscal year 2000 financial 
statements included in Take-Two’s 2000 Form 10-K filed with the Commission on 
January 29, 2001. 

B.     RELEVANT ENTITY 

       Take-Two is a Delaware corporation headquartered in New York, New York.  
Take-Two develops, markets and publishes interactive entertainment software games for 
video game consoles as well as the personal computer.  Prior to July 31, 2006, Take-
Two’s common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of 
the Exchange Act and traded on the NASDAQ NMS under the symbol “TTWO.”  Since 
July 31, 2006, Take-Two’s common stock has been registered with the Commission 
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and has traded on the NASDAQ Global 
Market.  During the relevant period, Take-Two’s fiscal year ended on October 31. 

C.     SUMMARY 

       Take-Two engaged in a fraudulent scheme to inflate its reported revenues during, 
among other periods, fiscal year 2000.  Specifically, by engaging in transactions that 
involved parking several hundred thousand video games with multiple distributors,3 

2
   The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer and are not binding on 
any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
3
   During these parking transactions, Take-Two shipped video games to different 
distributors at or near the end of a fiscal quarter or fiscal year, recorded revenue from 
these shipments as if they were sales, and then accepted returns of the shipments (some of 
which were disguised as purchases of new inventory) in subsequent reporting periods. 

                                           2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

Take-Two improperly recognized approximately $26 million in revenues during fiscal 
year 2000 (including $11 million from sales recognized at interim periods, which were 
subsequently returned and reversed before year end).  Take-Two inflated its after-tax 
fiscal year 2000 earnings by at least $5 million, or 19%, as a result of inflating its 
reported fiscal year 2000 revenues by $15.4 million.  In addition, during the same period, 
Take-Two did not comply with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) 
because it failed to establish proper reserves for video game returns.  As a result, Take-
Two improperly inflated its reported assets and net income.4
                                                             Take-Two’s fiscal year 
2000 financial statements were not fairly presented in all material respects in conformity 
with GAAP. 

       Fish was PwC’s engagement partner assigned to audit Take-Two’s financial 
statements for fiscal year 2000, and was the engagement partner on PwC’s audits of 
Take-Two’s financial statements starting in fiscal year 1994.  Fish signed PwC’s audit 
report accompanying Take-Two’s fiscal year 2000 financial statements included in Take-
Two’s 2000 Form 10-K filed with the Commission.  In performing the Take-Two audit 
for fiscal year end 2000, Fish departed from Generally Accepted Auditing Standards 
(“GAAS”).  Fish did not exercise due professional care and professional skepticism, and 
failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter in his audit testing of Take-Two’s 
accounts receivable balance as of October 31, 2000.  A material portion of those 
receivables were part of Take-Two's fraudulent parking transactions, meaning they were 
receivables for which Take-Two would never be paid because the product had not 
actually been sold. 

       Additionally, Fish failed to exercise due professional care and professional 
skepticism in testing Take-Two’s reserve accounting for video game returns.  Of the five 
transactions Fish examined to test for possible cutoff errors and to ensure items had not 
been shipped at year end (and subsequently returned) in order to increase fiscal year 2000 
sales, four had product return rates of at least 75% when Take-Two’s historical reserve 
for returns was only 5%.  Fish failed to investigate these transactions and did not compare 

4
   On June 1, 2005, the Commission authorized and simultaneously settled civil actions 
in federal court against Take-Two and several present and former members of senior 
management, obtaining injunctions, disgorgement, civil penalties, and officer and 
director bars.  SEC v. Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc., et al., Civil Action No. 1:05-
CV-5443 (DLC) (S.D.N.Y. June 9, 2005), Litigation Release No. 19260.  The 
Commission also authorized, and simultaneously settled, an administrative cease-and-
desist proceeding against one officer and a Rule 102(e)(3) administrative proceeding 
against the former Chief Financial Officer.  In the Matter of Robert M. Blau, Securities 
Act of 1933 Release No. 8581, Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) 
Release No. 51809, Litigation Release No. 19260 (June 9, 2005).  In the Matter of James 
H. David, Jr., CPA, Exchange Act Release No. 51895, Accounting and Auditing 
Enforcement Release No. 2262 (June 21, 2005). 

                                           3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

the returns to the original sales invoices.  Had he done so, he would have discovered that 
Take-Two had not set aside sufficient reserves to account for expected returns. 

       Fish reasonably should have known that Take Two’s fiscal year 2000 financial 
statements had not been prepared in conformity with GAAP.  He nonetheless signed an 
audit report on Take-Two’s fiscal year 2000 financial statements containing an 
unqualified audit opinion that Take-Two’s financial statements were fairly presented in 
all material respects in conformity with GAAP, based on PwC’s audit in accordance with 
GAAS.  Fish did not comply with GAAS in the conduct of the audit and engaged in 
improper professional conduct under Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice. 

D.     FACTS 

       1.     Take-Two fraudulently inflated its revenues and after-tax earnings in its 
fiscal year 2000 financial statements.  Take-Two arranged with several distributors to 
ship several hundred thousand computer and video game units at or near the end of a 
fiscal quarter or the fiscal year and have the distributors park the video games with no 
intention to sell them.  Take-Two then improperly recorded these shipments as sales 
revenue and accounts receivable with the understanding that all or substantially all of the 
same games shipped would be returned in the next fiscal reporting period.  As part of the 
fraudulent scheme, Take-Two shipped, and took back, games that were often outdated 
and that typically would not have been purchased by distributors in the quantities shipped 
in the normal course of business. 

       2.     This fraudulent scheme enabled the Company to recognize approximately 
$26 million in revenues during fiscal year 2000 from products it shipped but never 
actually sold.  The scheme also enabled the Company to report after-tax fiscal year 2000 
earnings that were inflated by at least $5 million, or 19%.  

       3.     Take-Two also failed to maintain adequate reserves for video game 
returns.  This allowed Take-Two to artificially inflate its reported assets and net income. 

       4.     Take-Two restated its financial statements for fiscal year 2000 in February 
2002 and again in February 2004 to correct for, among other things, the fraudulent 
revenue recognition associated with the Company’s numerous parking transactions.  The 
February 2004 restatement also corrected for the Company’s improper reserve 
accounting. 

       5.     Fish, who first became PwC’s engagement partner for Take-Two’s audit 
in 1994, served as the engagement partner on the audit of Take-Two’s financial 
statements for fiscal year 2000.  On December 13, 2000, Fish signed the PwC audit report 
containing an unqualified audit opinion accompanying Take-Two’s fiscal year 2000 
financial statements included in Take-Two’s 2000 Form 10-K filed with the Commission.   

                                           4

---------------------Page 5---------------------

       6.     In planning for the audit of Take-Two’s fiscal year 2000 financial 
statements, Fish appropriately identified risks presented by the audit and planned the 
conduct of the audit to address them.  In fact, the plan referred specifically to revenue 
recognition and accounts receivable reserves as “areas of higher risk which will be given 
special attention.”  However, Fish did not properly respond to those risks in his audit 
testing as he failed to exercise due professional care and professional skepticism, and 
failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter.  As a result, Fish improperly 
represented in the audit report that he had conducted the audit in accordance with GAAS 
and opined that the Take-Two financial statements were fairly presented in all material 
respects in conformity with GAAP. 

       7.     In the course of the fiscal year 2000 audit, Fish failed to exercise due 
professional care and failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter in his effort 
to verify the existence of Take-Two’s accounts receivable balance, the Company’s single 
most important asset, as of October 31, 2000.  Take-Two reported total gross domestic 
accounts receivable of $104 million as of October 31, 2000.  Attempting to verify the 
existence of the accounts receivable, PwC, under Fish’s supervision, sent requests for 
confirmation of October 31, 2000 accounts receivable balances to 15 of the Company’s 
customers, who owed approximately 70% of the total domestic accounts receivable 
balance as of October 31, 2000.  In response to the 15 confirmation requests sent, PwC 
received only one confirmation (which turned out to be false) representing $2 million – 
less than 2% of the total domestic accounts receivable balance. 

       8.     One of the 14 customers PwC did not receive a confirmation response 
from was Capitol Distributing L.L.C. (“Capitol”), a new customer at the time, with a 
balance of $5.4 million resulting from two sales on October 31, 2000.  The Capitol 
“sales” were parking transactions Take-Two arranged that shipped on the last day of its 
fiscal year,5
            and were the largest of several such transactions entered into by Take-Two in 
the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2000 in connection with a fraudulent revenue recognition 
scheme.  Making no attempt to sell the games, Capitol returned all of them after the end 
of Take-Two’s fiscal year 2000 using fraudulent “assorted product” invoices to disguise 
the return as a purchase of new product from Capitol by Take-Two.  6 

5
   Take-Two itself provided the cash for Capitol’s alleged “purchases.” 
6
   Capitol is a privately-owned video game distributor organized as a limited liability 
company under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia.  On May 2, 2007, the 
Commission issued an Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, 
and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 in the matter of Terry M. Phillips (“Phillips”), owner/operator of 
Capitol, and simultaneously filed a complaint for a civil penalty against Phillips and 
injunction against Capitol.  In the Matter of Terry M. Phillips, Exchange Act Release No. 
55696.  SEC v. Capitol Distributing, L.L.C. et al., Civil Action No. 1:07-CV-00798 
(RMC) (D.D.C. May 2, 2007), Litigation Release No. 20100. 

                                            5

---------------------Page 6---------------------

       9.     Another confirmation response that was not received was from a Canadian 
distributor with whom Take-Two had a parking arrangement.  Included in the October 
31, 2000 accounts receivable balance was a $1.7 million parking transaction sale of 
product that shipped on October 31, 2000, the last day of Take-Two’s fiscal year and the 
same day that the $5.4 million of sales were improperly recorded from the Capitol 
parking transactions.  A third confirmation response that was not received was from a 
Texas-based distributor with whom Take-Two also parked video games.  Included in the 
October 31, 2000 balance was a $1 million parking transaction sale of product with this 
distributor on the last day of the fiscal year. 

       10.    In response to the lack of confirmation responses Fish, who had identified 
accounts receivable as a higher risk audit area for Take-Two, reviewed the subsequent 
cash receipts as an alternative audit procedure (in addition to examining sales invoices 
and third party shipping documents) to verify the existence of accounts receivable.  
However, Take-Two’s cash receipts journal showed only $16 million had been collected 
as of December 8, 2000.  Combined with the amount of the one confirmation response 
received, Fish verified the existence of only $18 million, or 17% of the domestic accounts 
receivable total of $104 million.  Fish’s alternative audit procedures were insufficient 
under GAAS to verify the existence of Take-Two’s accounts receivable. 

       11.    Fish knew, or should have known, that Take-Two’s records showed, in 
numerous instances, only aggregate cash collected after October 31, 2000.  As a result, 
Fish knew, or should have known, that he could not be certain whether the cash he 
examined from November 1 through December 8, 2000 related to the accounts receivable 
balances that existed as of October 31, 2000, or to sales that were recorded after that date.  
For example, if the cash received related to sales recorded after October 31, 2000 only, 
then the testing would only have verified fiscal year 2001 sales, and not fiscal year 2000, 
which was the year under audit.  Likewise, because Fish could not reliably match cash 
received to specific invoices, he could not determine with any degree of certainty whether 
any of the cash collected had been applied to accounts that were past due, including by as 
much as 180 days or more, as of October 31, 2000.  Fish, therefore, could not determine 
with any degree of certainty whether any of these past due accounts were collectible.  The 
fact that Take-Two’s records often showed only aggregate cash collected was a red flag 
to Fish that any subsequent cash receipts testing relying on this data would prove 
ineffective.  However, Fish nonetheless relied on insufficient information from Take-Two 
and conducted a test that he knew, or should have known, could not verify the existence 
of Take-Two’s accounts receivable or reduce the identified audit risk to an acceptably 
low level as GAAS requires.  Fish’s auditing methodology, therefore, was not in 
accordance with GAAS. 

       12.    Fish also failed to exercise due professional care and professional 
skepticism in testing the adequacy of Take-Two’s estimated sales returns reserve at 
October 31, 2000 as required by GAAS.  Take-Two accounted for shipments as sales 
even though its practice was to accept returns of certain games it had sold.  While 
recording these sales was appropriate in certain circumstances, the Company was 

                                            6

---------------------Page 7---------------------

required under GAAP to estimate and record sufficient reserves to account for these 
returns. 

       13.    As of October 31, 2000, Take-Two reserved for returns at the rate of 
approximately 5% for the year.  During Take-Two’s fiscal year end 2000 audit, Fish and 
others at PwC at his direction performed certain analytical procedures on historical sales 
returns and examined five specific returns made after year end to test for possible cutoff 
errors and to ensure items had not been shipped at year end (and subsequently returned) 
in order to increase fiscal year 2000 sales.  Of the five specific returns tested, Fish did not 
compare the returns with the original sales invoices.  Had he done so, he would have 
discovered that in four of the five instances, more than 75% of the games purportedly 
purchased had been returned, an amount much greater than the historical return rate, 
when Take-Two only reserved for returns at the rate of 5%.  Fish determined, 
nonetheless, that Take-Two’s reserves were adequate without, for example, examining 
other returns from fiscal year 2000, or inquiring of the customers regarding these 
particular sales.  In actuality, the four “sales” with abnormally high return rates were 
parking transactions.  Fish’s auditing methodology, therefore, was not in accordance with 
GAAS. 

E.     LEGAL ANALYSIS 

       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides that the 
Commission may censure or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing 
or practicing before the Commission to any person who is found by the Commission to 
have engaged in improper professional conduct.  Rule 102(e)(1)(iv), in relevant part, 
defines improper professional conduct with respect to persons licensed to practice as 
accountants as “ . . . (B) Either of the following two types of negligent conduct:  (1) A 
single instance of highly unreasonable conduct that results in a violation of applicable 
professional standards in circumstances in which the . . . associated person knows, or 
should know, that heightened scrutiny is warranted; or (2) Repeated instances of 
unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards, 
that indicate a lack of competence to practice before the Commission.”  An accountant’s 
conduct is highly unreasonable when the accountant fails to employ heightened scrutiny 
with regard to matters that are important or material, or when warning signs or other 
factors should alert an accountant to a heightened risk.  See, e.g., James Thomas 
McCurdy, Exchange Act Rel. No. 34-49182 (Feb. 4, 2004), 82 SEC Docket 271, 286, 
aff’d, McCurdy v. SEC, 396 F.3d 1258 (D.C. Cir. 2005). 

       Fish’s performance on Take-Two’s fiscal year end 2000 audit constituted 
improper professional conduct under each standard of negligent conduct. 

                           The Applicable GAAS Standards 

       The Commission’s rules require that auditors of public company financial 
statements adhere to GAAS, which requires that auditors exercise due professional care 
in performing an audit or review and in preparing the audit report.  AU § 230.01.  Under 

                                            7

---------------------Page 8---------------------

AU § 230.04, “due professional care concerns what the independent auditor does and 
how well he does it.”  Due professional care requires further that the auditor exercise 
professional skepticism in performing audit and review procedures and gathering and 
analyzing audit evidence.  AU §§ 230.07-.08.  “Gathering and objectively evaluating 
audit evidence requires the auditor to consider the competency and sufficiency of the 
evidence.”  AU § 230.08.  Furthermore, in “exercising professional skepticism, the 
auditor should not be satisfied with less than persuasive evidence because of a belief that 
management is honest.”  AU § 230.09. 

       GAAS also requires auditors to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter 
when conducting audits, and that such evidential matter be obtained through inspection, 
observation, inquiries, and confirmations to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion 
regarding the financial statements under audit.  AU § 326.01.  In addition, the auditor 
should recognize “the possibility that the financial statements may not be fairly presented 
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles” and should “consider 
relevant evidential matter regardless of whether it appears to corroborate or contradict the 
assertions in the financial statements.”  AU § 326.25.  For information obtained through 
the confirmation process to be competent, it must be reliable and relevant.  AU § 330.11. 
When obtaining evidence for assertions not adequately addressed by confirmations, an 
auditor should consider other audit procedures to complement confirmation procedures or 
to be used instead of confirmation procedures.  AU § 330.12. 

       When the auditor has not received replies to positive confirmation requests, he or 
she should apply alternative procedures to the nonresponses to obtain the evidence 
necessary to reduce audit risk to an acceptably low level.  AU § 330.31.  When 
examining accounts receivable, “alternative procedures may include examination of 
subsequent cash receipts (including matching such receipts with the actual items being 
paid), shipping documents or other client documentation to provide evidence for the 
existence assertion.”  AU § 330.32.  Finally, after any alternative procedures have been 
performed, the auditor should evaluate the combined evidence provided by the 
confirmations and alternative procedures, considering in particular “the nature of any 
exceptions, including the implications, both quantitative and qualitative, of those 
exceptions . . . .”  AU § 330.33. 

    Fish Engaged in Improper Professional Conduct by Failing to Exercise Due 

   Professional Care and Professional Skepticism, and Failed to Obtain Sufficient 

                Competent Evidential Matter as Required by GAAS 


       Fish departed from GAAS in his auditing of Take-Two’s accounts receivable, 
which was Take-Two’s single most important asset.  As previously discussed, Fish sent 
out 15 requests for confirmation to test a reported $104 million in domestic Company 
receivables as of October 31, 2000.  In response to the 15 requests for confirmation sent, 
only one confirmation was returned for $2 million – less than 2% of the total domestic 
accounts receivable balance, which was a red flag to Fish that he should have 
investigated further.  Among the 14 confirmations outstanding were three that included 
parking transaction sales worth over $8 million that shipped on October 31, the last day 

                                           8

---------------------Page 9---------------------

of the fiscal year.  In response to the lack of confirmations, Fish employed a subsequent 
cash receipts testing methodology that was not in accordance with GAAS because he 
knew, or should have known, that Take-Two had no way of reliably applying cash 
receipts to specific invoices.  Fish failed to exercise due professional care because the 
alternative procedures employed were insufficient to reduce audit risk to an acceptably 
low level as GAAS requires.  AU §§ 230.01, 330.31.  Fish also failed to obtain sufficient 
competent evidential matter regarding Take-Two’s accounts receivable and relied on 
alternative audit procedures that could not effectively verify the Company’s accounts 
receivable balance.  AU §§ 326.01, 330.12, 330.31 and 330.32.  Fish’s departures from 
GAAS constituted improper professional conduct. 

       In conducting his fiscal year end 2000 audit, Fish failed to exercise due 
professional care and professional skepticism by failing to respond appropriately to the 
fact that Take-Two accepted returns at a rate exceeding 75%, far in excess of the 
Company’s reserves for a 5% rate of return.  Although Fish and others at PwC at his 
direction performed certain analytical procedures on historical sales returns and examined 
five specific returns made after year end, Fish did not compare the returns to the original 
sales invoices.  Had he done so, he would have discovered that in four of the five 
instances, more than 75% of the games purportedly purchased had been returned when 
Take-Two only reserved for returns at the rate of 5%.  Fish’s conduct constituted 
improper professional conduct. 

       By departing from GAAS in his testing of Take-Two’s accounts receivable and 
reserve accounting for returns, Fish engaged in improper professional conduct.   

                    Failure to Render an Accurate Audit Report 

       In conducting an audit, an auditor is required to state in the auditor’s report 
whether, in the auditor’s opinion, the financial statements are fairly presented in all 
material respects in conformity with GAAP.  AU §§ 410 and 411.  An auditor may 
express that the financial statements are presented in conformity with GAAP only when 
the auditor has formed such an opinion on the basis of an audit performed in accordance 
with GAAS.  AU § 508.07. 

       Based on the foregoing, in connection with the audit of Take-Two’s fiscal year 
2000 financial statements, Fish failed to render an accurate audit report when he opined 
that Take-Two’s financial statements had been prepared in conformity with GAAP and 
the audit had been performed in accordance with GAAS.  In fact, the financial statements 
were not in conformity with GAAP, and the audit was not performed in accordance with 
GAAS. 

F.     FINDINGS 

       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent engaged in 
improper professional conduct (as set forth under Rules 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(1) and (2) of the 

                                           9

---------------------Page 10---------------------

Commission’s Rules of Practice) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.  

                                          IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the 
sanctions agreed to in Respondent's Offer. 

Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that, effective immediately: 

       A.     Respondent is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant.   

       B.     After one year from the date of this order, Respondent may request that 
the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: 
Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as: 

              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the 
preparation or review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with 
the Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s 
work in his practice before the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent 
audit committee of the public company for which he works or in some other 
acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the Commission in this capacity; 
and/or 

              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy 
the Commission that: 

                      (a)    Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) 
in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be 
effective; 

                      (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with 
which he is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not 
identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality 
control system that would indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate 
supervision; 

                      (c)    Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the 
Board, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the 
Board (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      (d)    Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not 

                                           10

---------------------Page 11---------------------

limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner 
reviews and quality control standards. 

       C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards 
of accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.   
The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters 
referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, 
professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

       By the Commission. 

        N                                                     ancy M. Morris
        S                                                    ecretary 

                                           11

