---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                          the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  52726 / November 3, 2005 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2343 / November 3, 2005 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12095 
                                            
                                              : 
                                           :        
                                           :         
       In the Matter of                    :       ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                             :     PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
              ERIC TYRA, CPA               :       102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                             :     PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
              Respondent.                  :       IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                       : 
                                                       : 
____________________________________ :               
                                                    
 
                                              I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Eric 
Tyra (“Respondent” or “Tyra”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1 
            
                                                
                                              II.  
 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III (3)  below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
       1.     Tyra, age 55, has been a certified public  accountant licensed to practice in the States 
of Georgia and New York.  He served as chief financial officer of Just for Feet, Inc. (Just for Feet)  
from May 1997 until June 1999. 
        
       2.     Just for Feet was, at all relevant times, a Delaware corporation with its principal 
place of business in Birmingham, Alabama.  Just for Feet was a major national retailer of shoes and 
other apparel.  At all relevant times, Just for Feet’s common stock was registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), 
and traded on the NASDAQ National Market System.  
 
       3.     On May 21, 2004, the Commission filed a complaint against Tyra in SEC v. Eric 
Tyra et al.,  (Civil Action No. CV-04-P-1052-S).  On January 31, 2005, the Commission filed an  
amended complaint.  On October 14, 2005, the court entered a final judgment permanently 
enjoining Tyra, by consent, from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 
(“Securities Act”) and Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1 
and 13b2-2 thereunder and from aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder. 
        
       4. The Commission’s complaint        alleged, among other things, that Tyra directed others  
to record, without sufficient supporting documentation,  “co-op” receivables and advertising rebate  
receivables on the company’s books, which resulted in the fraudulent overstatement of income on 
Just for Feet’s financial statements filed with the company’s periodic reports on Forms 10-K and 
10-Q from 1997 through 1999.           
 
 
                                              IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Tyra’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  

                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
       A.      Tyra is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.  
 
                    B. After ten years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the  
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the  
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                   1.  a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such an  
application must satisfy the Commission that  Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company for 
which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the  
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                            (a) Respondent, or the  public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                       (b)     Respondent, or the registered  public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of 
or potential defects in the Respondent’s or  the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                       (c)     Respondent has resolved all di sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                       (d)     Respondent acknowledges his re   sponsibility, as long as Respondent 
appears or practices before the Commission as  an independent accountant, to comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements  
relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
      
       C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current 
and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                  3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependant on reinstatement by the Commission, 
the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review 
may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters 
relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear 
or practice before the Commission. 
            
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Jonathan                                                                              G. Katz
       Secretary                                                                            

                                                                       4
  
