---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                               

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                         Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No.  54668 / October 30, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No.  2503 / October 30, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No.  3-12466 
 
In the Matter of                       ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
                                       PROCEEDINGS, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
         KEVIN CURRY,                  IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
                                       PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF THE 
Respondent.                            SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
                                                                  
 
                                             I. 

       The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), against Kevin Curry (“Curry” or the 
“Respondent”). 

                                             II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting 
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order 
Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.1

                                                 
1
       In a separate civil action filed simultaneously with this proceeding, Curry has separately consented to the 
entry of a judgment by the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan pursuant to Section 21(d) of the 
Exchange Act ordering him to pay a civil penalty of $25,000.  SEC v. Delphi Corporation, et al., Civil Action No. 
2:06-cv-14891 (AC) (E.D. Mich. Oct. 30, 2006).  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that;  2

       A.     Respondent and Delphi Corporation (“Delphi”) 

              1.     Respondent 

       Curry, 58, is a resident of Hilton Head, South Carolina.  At all relevant times, he was a 
client executive at a Texas information technology company (the “IT Company”) supporting the 
IT Company’s relationship with Delphi.   

              2.     Delphi 

       Delphi is an auto parts supplier headquartered in Troy, Michigan.  At all relevant times, 
Delphi’s common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the 
Exchange Act and was listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the symbol 
“DPH.”  On October 8, 2005, Delphi filed for bankruptcy in the Southern District of New York.  
On November 11, 2005, Delphi was delisted from the NYSE.  Delphi’s common stock is now 
registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and trades in the 
over the counter market and is quoted in the pink sheets under the symbol “DPHIQ”.  

       B.     Facts 

              1. Introduction 
       Prior to December 2001, Delphi had entered agreements with the IT Company under 
which the IT Company provided information technology (“IT”) services to Delphi (the “Existing 
IT Agreements”).  In December 2001, Delphi and the IT Company entered into a new five-year 
IT contract, pursuant to which Delphi agreed to pay the IT Company approximately $207 million 
over the course of five years in return for IT services (the “New IT Contract”).   As additional 
consideration, the IT Company agreed to pay Delphi $20 million at the time the New IT Contract 
was signed.  Delphi agreed to repay the $20 million to the IT Company over five years.  
Although the $20 million was to be repaid and related to a new contract, Delphi improperly 
accounted for the payment as income (reduction of recorded IT expenses) in the fourth quarter of 
2001.   
       Curry was a client executive at the IT Company.  In 2001, he assisted in negotiating the 
terms of the New IT Contract, including the $20 million payment.  He also assisted in 
negotiating an inaccurate and incomplete side letter between Delphi and the IT Company, that 
allowed Delphi to mislead its auditors about the true nature of the $20 million payment.  Finally, 
in 2002, he negotiated and signed two work orders that were used by the companies to facilitate 
Delphi’s repayment of the $20 million to the IT Company. 

                                                 
2
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                               2 
                                                 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

              2.           Curry’s Understanding of Delphi’s Scheme 

       From his discussions with Delphi concerning the New IT Contract, Curry understood that 
Delphi sought a payment of $20 million that it could book as income in the fourth quarter of 
2001.  Curry understood that because the payment was to be repaid and tied to the New IT 
Contract, it would be improper for Delphi to immediately record the $20 million as income.   

              3.     Curry’s Role in Negotiating the Inaccurate and Incomplete Side 
                      Letter 

       Delphi asked the IT Company to enter into a side letter documenting the $20 million 
payment.  Curry, on behalf of the IT Company, assisted in negotiating a side letter with Delphi 
that described the terms of the $20 million payment in an inaccurate and incomplete way.  In 
order to account for the $20 million as income, Delphi wanted to mislead its auditors into 
believing that it was receiving the $20 million as a nonrefundable rebate on payments it had 
previously made to the IT Company, in connection with the Existing IT Agreements.  
Conversely, to support its own accounting for the $20 million payment, the IT Company wanted 
its own auditors to understand the true terms of the payment: that it was to be repaid over five 
years and that it was linked directly to the New IT Contract.  Curry came to understand, from 
others, that in order for both companies to accomplish their accounting goals, they would need to 
draft a vague side letter.  The side letter that Curry ultimately assisted in negotiating on behalf of 
the IT Company deliberately omitted any reference to the New IT Contract.  Instead it stated that 
the payment was related to the companies’ “ongoing business relationship.”  The letter also 
omitted any reference to the fact that Delphi had to repay the $20 million. 

        4.            Curry’s Role in Negotiating and Signing Two Incorrect Work Orders 

       In early 2002, the IT Company required that Delphi enter into a written commitment to 
repay the $20 million to the IT Company.  Because Delphi had accounted for the $20 million as 
income, it was unwilling to enter into any document that explicitly stated that it was repaying the 
$20 million.  Accordingly, the companies agreed to enter into two work orders that incorrectly 
stated that Delphi was paying the IT Company $20 million over five years to perform 
“administrative services” under the New IT Contract.  In fact, the work orders were simply a 
mechanism for Delphi to repay the $20 million to the IT Company.  Curry negotiated and signed 
the work orders on behalf of the IT Company. 

                                               3 
                                                 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

               5.      Delphi’s improper accounting 

       Delphi improperly accounted for the $20 million payment as a reduction of recorded IT 
expenses (effectively income) in the fourth quarter of 2001.  Based on the intent of the parties 
and substance of the agreements, GAAP required that Delphi record the transaction as a liability 
to the IT Company at the time the companies executed the New IT Contract and the side letter.  3
                                                                                                  
As a result of its improper accounting, Delphi overstated its fourth quarter 2001 earnings per 
share, as reported in its Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2001, by approximately 2 
cents or 24%. 

       C.     Conclusion 

       As a result of the conduct described above, Curry was a cause of Delphi’s violations of 
Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-1 promulgated thereunder, which 
require reporting companies to file accurate annual reports with the Commission. 

       Also, as a result of the conduct described above, Curry was a cause of Delphi’s violations 
of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to make and 
keep books, records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their 
transactions and dispositions of their assets.  

                                               IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Curry’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that Respondent Curry cease and desist from 
causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-1 promulgated thereunder.  

       By the Commission. 

 
 
 
                                             Nancy M. Morris  
                                             Secretary  

                                                 
3
       Statement of Financial Accounting Concept Statement No.6 – Elements of Financial Statements, ¶¶ 35 – 
40. 

                                                4 
                                                  
