---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                       the 

 SECURITIES                       AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT of 1934 
Release No.  53162 / January 20, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2367 / January 20, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12155 
                                               ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                               ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
In the Matter of                               PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                               COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
      HERBERT J. MORTLAND,                     MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
      CPA and MORTLAND & CO.,                  REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
      P.C., 
 
Respondents. 
 
 
 
                                                
 
                                           I.  
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate  
that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Herbert J. 
Mortland, CPA (“Mortland”) and Mortland & Co., P.C. (“Mortland & Co.”) (hereinafter 
referred to collectively as “Respondents”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice.1 
                                 
                                            
                                          II.  
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted 
an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  
Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on  
behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or  
denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the 
                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
      The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before  
it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct.                                      
---------------------Page 2---------------------

subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the 
entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                           III.  
 
      On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offer, the Commission finds   2
                                                                                 that: 
 
A. SUMMARY 
 
      These proceedings arise out of the diversion of approximately $4.5 million of 
customer funds to pay proprietary trading losses of Rocky Mountain Securities & 
Investments, Inc. (“Rocky Mountain”), a broker-dealer that became registered with the 
Commission in 1980 and ceased operations on February 3,    2003.  Through the diversion 
of customer funds, Rocky Mountain violated the net capital, customer reserve, books and 
records, and notice provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”).  
Rocky Mountain also made false filings with the Commission and sent its customers a 
materially false financial statement. 
                     
B. RESPONDENTS 
 
      1.     Herbert J. Mortland, a certified public accountant licensed in the State of 
Missouri, is the owner of Mortland & Co., an accounting firm with offices in Clayton,  
Missouri. 
 
                   2. Mortland & Co. performed the audit of the financial statements of Rocky 
Mountain for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002, and certain supplementary reports, 
including Rocky Mountain’s Computation of Aggregate Indebtedness and Net Capital 
and Rocky Mountain’s Computation of Reserve Requirement (the “2002 audit”). 
              
C. FACTS 
              
      1.     On August 27, 2002, Rocky Mountain filed its June 2002 financial 
statements and supplementary reports, accompanied by Mortland & Co.’s audit report 
and supplemental report, with the Commission on Form X-17A-5.  Rocky Mountain’s 
financial statements and supplementary reports, and Mortland & Co.’s audit report and 
supplemental report, were mailed to Rocky Mountain’s customers. 
              
      2.     Mortland & Co.’s audit report contained an unqualified opinion representing  
that Mortland & Co. had conducted an audit in accordance with Generally Accepted 
Auditing Standards (“GAAS”) and that Rocky Mountain’s financial statements fairly  
presented the financial position and results of operations of Rocky Mountain in all material 
                                                 
2 
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other    
person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   
                                            2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

respects and that those financial statements had been prepared in conformity with 
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”).  In fact, Mortland & Co. had not 
conducted the audit in accordance with GAAS and Rocky Mountain’s financial statements 
had not been prepared in conformity with GAAP. 
              
      3.     At the time Mortland conducted the 2002 audit, he was on notice that 
securities trading by Rocky Mountain through its proprietary accounts in 2000 had 
generated approximately $600,000 in losses that were not recorded in Rocky Mountain’s 
books and records, rendering the firm’s net capital and customer reserve calculations, 
among other things, materially inaccurate. 
              
      4.     Mortland & Co. and Mortland failed to conduct the 2002 au dit in accordance 
with GAAS, as follows: 
              
             a.     Mortland’s audit opinion was based upon his sample review of 
certain underlying accounting data, but did not take into account conflicting data available 
to him that would have revealed material discrepancies in the proprietary securities 
positions reflected in Rocky Mountain’s books and records.  In performing audit 
procedures, Mortland also did not consider data available to him that cast doubt on the 
customer fund balance reflected in Rocky Mountain’s b ooks and records. 
              
                    b. Rocky Mountain’s computations of net capital, aggregate 
indebtedness and customer reserve requirements were materially inaccurate because the 
firm’s books and records reflected materially inaccurate proprietary securities positions 
and a materially inaccurate balance in the customer funds account.  Because of  
Mortland’s audit failures with respect to Rocky Mountain’s proprietary securities positions 
and customer funds account, Mortland failed to detect Rocky Mountain’s materially 
inaccurate computations of net capital, aggregate indebtedness and customer reserve 
requirements. 
              
                    c.     Mortland & Co.’s supplemental report, referenced in 
Paragraph III.C.1., represented that Mortland & Co. found no material inadequacies in 
Rocky Mountain’s practices and procedures.  Mortland’s audit should have, but did not, 
reveal the material inadequacies existing at Rocky Mountain during the relevant time 
frame. 
       
                     d.    Mortland had made loans to Rocky Mountain’s head 
securities trader, which remained outstanding during the 2002 audit.  The outstanding 
loans from Mortland to the head trader compromised Mortland’s and Mortland & Co.’s 
independence.  Rocky Mountain’s unrecorded securities trading losses in 2000 and the 
resulting obligation of Mortland to conduct the 2002 audit with an appreciation for the 
heightened level of risk presented by Rocky Mountain’s trading department aggravated  
Mortland’s lack of independence. 
         

                                           3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       5.     Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Mortland & Co. and 
Mortland engaged in improper professional conduct pursuant to    Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
                                            IV. 
                                              
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropr  iate to impose the 
sanctions agreed to in Respondent Mortland’s and Respondent Mortland & Co.’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
 A.           Mortland and Mortland   & Co. are denied the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before the Commission as accountants. 
 
                    B. After three years from the date of this order, Respondent Mortland may 
request that the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application 
(attention:  Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before 
the Commission as: 
 
               1.    a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or  
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  
Such an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent Mortland’s work in his 
practice before the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit 
committee of the public company for which he works or in some other acceptable 
manner, as long as he practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
        2.           an independent ac  countant.  Such an application must satisfy 
the Commission that: 
 
                     (a)    Respondent Mortland, or   the public accounting firm with 
which he is associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight 
Board (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such 
registration continues to be effective; 
 
                     (b)    Respondent Mortland, or t he registered public accounting firm 
with which he is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not 
identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality 
control system that would indicate that the respondent will not receive appropriate 
supervision; 

               (c)          Respondent Mortland has re   solved all disciplinary issues with 
the Board, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by 
the Board (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                     (d)    Respondent Mortland ackn   owledges his responsibility, as 
long as Respondent Mortland appears or practices before the Commission as an 
                                             4
  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

independent accountant, to comply with all requirements  of the Commission and the 
Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, 
concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.  
 
       C. After three year    s from the date of this  order, Respondent Mortland &  
Co. may request that  the Commission consider its reinstatement by submitting an 
application (attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant. Such an 
application must satisfy the Commission that: 
 
                                 1. Respondent Mortland & Co. is registered with the Public Company  
Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
               2.    Respondent Mortland & Co. has been inspected by the Board and 
that inspection did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the firm’s quality 
control system that would indicate that any of its employees will not receive appropriate 
supervision;  

               3.    Respondent Mortland & Co. has resolved all disciplinary issues with 
the Board, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by 
the Board (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
               4.    Respondent Mortland & Co. acknowledges its respon        sibility, as long  
as Respondent Mortland & Co. appears or practices before the Commission as an 
independent accountant, to comply with all requirements  of the Commission and the 
Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, 
concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.  
 
       D.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondents Mortland 
and/or Mortland & Co. to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission provided  
that their state CPA licenses are current and they have resolved all other disciplinary 
issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, if state licensure is 
dependant on reinstatement by the Commission, the Co       mmission will consider an 
application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in 
addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondents’      
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 
 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy                                                   M. Morris
       Secretary                                              
                                              5
  
