---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 
 before                                      the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  53444 / March 8, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2393 / March 8, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12231
  
                                               ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                              ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE- 
                                               AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT 
In the Matter of                               TO SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                               EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND RULE 
MICHAEL B. JOHNSON, CPA and                    102(e) OF THE COMMISSION'S RULES OF 
MICHAEL JOHNSON & CO., LLC,                    PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                               IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND 
Respondents.                                   A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER                   
 
 
 
 
                                                
   
                                          I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission") deems it appropriate that public 
administrative proceedings and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
Michael B. Johnson ("Johnson") and Michael Johnson & Co., LLC ("Johnson & Co.") (hereinafter 
referred to collectively as "Respondents") pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 ("Exchange Act") and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                                                                
                                            
                                          II. 
                                            
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the "Offer"), which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
                                                 
1
 Rules 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that the Commission may deny, temporarily or 
permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before it to any person who is "found…to 
have engaged in improper professional conduct."  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

herein, except as to the Commission's jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, 
and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order ("Order"), as set forth below. 
 
                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondents' Offers, the Commission finds2
                                                                                  that: 
 
       1.      Johnson, age 56, is a resident of Littleton, Colorado.  Johnson has been the manager 
and sole member of Johnson & Co. and a licensed certified public accountant in Colorado since 
1975.  He also is a licensed certified public accountant in Florida and Mississippi. 
        
       2.           Johnson & Co. is an accounting firm located in Denver, Colorado.  Johnson is the 
only member of, and the only certified public accountant affiliated with, the firm.  
        
       3.           Johnson & Co., through the participation of Johnson, audited the financial 
statements of Winners Internet Network, Inc. ("Winners"), now known as American Television and 
Film Company ("American"), for the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1998 and compiled 
financial statements for the ten months ended October 31, 1998 and 1999, which were included in a 
Form 10-SB registration statement filed by Winners with the Commission on December 23, 1999.  
Johnson supervised the audits and compilations of these financial statements and signed the audit 
reports for the 1997 and 1998 audits on behalf of Johnson & Co.  
        
 4. Johnson participated in           the preparation and audit of Winners' December 31, 1999 
financial statements, which were included in a current report on Form 8-K filed by Winners with the 
Commission on May 19, 2000.  Johnson signed the resulting audit report for this audit.  In addition, 
Johnson & Co. prepared, and Johnson and Johnson & Co. conducted reviews of, Winners' financial 
statements for the quarters ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2000, versions of which 
were included in Forms 10-QSB and 10-QSB/A filed by Winners with the Commission on 
November 21 and 22, 2000 and December 6, 2000, respectively, under the name of Winners' wholly 
owned subsidiary, Glennaire Financial Services, Inc. 
 
              5.           Winners, a former Nevada corporation with offices in St. Augustine, Florida and 
the country of Liechtenstein, offered online processing of Internet gaming and other financial 
transactions using its proprietary processing software between 1999 and June 2002.  Thereafter, 
Winners had no operations.   
 
       6. In December       1999, Winners filed a general form of registration of securities of a 
small business issuer with the Commission on Form 10-SB, which Winners withdrew before it 

                                                 
2
  The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents' Offers of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   
 
                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

became effective.  In May 2000, Winners' common stock became registered with the Commission 
pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act, when Winners acquired Glennaire Financial 
Services, Inc., a public shell whose common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to 
Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act, effective September 1999.  On February 26, 2004, Winners 
terminated the registration of its common stock by filing a Form 15 with the Commission.  
Therefore, from May 2000 to at least February 26, 2004, Winners, now American, was required to 
file periodic reports with the Commission.  American's common stock is quoted on the National 
Quotation Bureau's Pink Sheets.   
        
       7.           Once its operations began in 1999, Winners maintained incomplete and inaccurate 
books and records for its European operations that encompassed accounts including its software 
asset, receivables, revenues, and the majority of its expenses and liabilities.  In connection with the 
preparation of the financial statements identified in Paragraph 4, an employee of Johnson & Co., 
under Johnson's supervision, made false entries to certain of Winners' accounts. 
        
       8.           The financial statements of Winners referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4 above 
materially overstated Winners' software asset by between $75,000 and $300,000, resulting in an 
overstatement of total assets by between 3% and 191%, by improperly capitalizing purported 
demonstration software costs in Winners' software asset account. 
 
              9.           Winners' December 31, 1999 financial statements, which Johnson and Johnson & 
Co. prepared and audited and that were filed with the Commission in Winners' Form 8-K current 
report, materially overstated Winners' software asset by approximately $421,000, by improperly 
capitalizing operating expenses in the software asset account.  This resulted in an overstatement of 
total assets by 416%. 
 
              10.        Winners' December 31, 1999 financial statements also materially overstated 
Winners' licensing and processing revenues by approximately $372,000, resulting in an 
overstatement of total revenues by 83%, and accounts receivable by approximately $533,000, 
resulting in an overstatement of total assets by 528%, and understated expenses by $161,000, 
resulting in a 16% understatement of total expenses, by improperly:  (a) recording licensing fees; 
(b) recognizing receivables from licensing fees Winners had little or no chance of collecting; and 
(c) recognizing revenue and receivables that had not been realized or earned by Winners.  These 
overstatements enabled Winners to report net income of $5,067 instead of a net loss of over 
$501,000. 
 
              11.        Financial statements for the initial three quarters of calendar year 2000 were 
included in Forms 10-QSB and 10-QSB/A filed by Winners with the Commission in November 
and December 2000.  These financial statements improperly recognized a $1 million software asset 
from a transaction that lacked economic substance, resulting in an overstatement of total assets by 
between 73% and 2,550%. 
 
              12.        Johnson & Co. issued audit reports accompanying Winners' year-end financial 
statements for 1997 and 1998 that contained a going concern modification and an unqualified audit 
report for 1999.  These reports falsely stated that the financial statements were presented fairly in 

                                                3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

all material respects in conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") and 
that the audits of these financial statements were conducted in accordance with Generally Accepted 
Auditing Standards ("GAAS").  These statements were false, since portions of the underlying 
financial statements were not presented in conformity with GAAP, which, in turn, rendered false 
the statements that the audits were conducted in accordance with GAAS, since the failure to 
address a deviation from GAAP in an audit report is a violation of GAAS.   
  
       13.    In addition, Johnson & Co.'s audit of Winners' 1999 financial statements was not in 
accordance with GAAS. Among other things, by participating in both the preparation and audit of 
these financial statements, Johnson and Johnson & Co. failed to maintain their independence from 
Winners.  Johnson and Johnson & Co. also failed to adequately plan their audit, failed to obtain 
competent evidential matter, failed to use due professional care, failed to properly evaluate 
Winners' ability to continue as a going concern, and failed to adopt reasonable procedures to retain 
audit documentation. 3
                       
               
       14.    Johnson and Johnson & Co. acted recklessly in compiling, reviewing and auditing 
the financial statements which contained the false statements described in Paragraphs 7 through 13.  
Johnson also acted recklessly in overseeing the recording of entries to Winners' accounts for the 
year ended December 31, 1999 and for the quarters ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 
2000. 
 
       15.    As a result of the conduct described above, Johnson (a) violated Section 10(b) of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in connection with the 
purchase or sale of securities; (b) violated Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act, which, among 
other things, prohibits any person from knowingly falsifying any book, record or account subject to 
Section 13(b)(2) of the Exchange Act; (c) violated Rule 13b2-1, which prohibits any person from 
directly or indirectly falsifying or causing to be falsified, any book record or account subject to 
Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act; (d) caused Winners' violations of Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder, which require every issuer of a 
security registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act to file with the Commission, in 
accordance with such rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or 
appropriate for the protection of investors and to insure fair dealing in the security, such quarterly 
and current reports as the Commission may prescribe; (e) caused Winners' violations of Section 
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, which requires public companies to make and keep books and 
records which accurately and fairly reflect its transactions and dispositions of assets; and (f) 
engaged in improper professional conduct.   
 
       16.    As a result of the conduct described above, Johnson & Co. (a)  violated Section 
10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in 
connection with the purchase or sale of securities; (b) violated Rule 13b2-1, which prohibits any 
person from directly or indirectly falsifying or causing to be falsified, any book record or account 

                                                 
3
   According to Johnson, certain original workpapers relating to the audit of Winners' December 
31, 1999 financial statements were missing within approximately fifteen months after completion 
of the audit.   
                                                4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

subject to Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act; (c) caused Winners' violations of Section 13(a) 
of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder, which require every issuer of 
a security registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act  to file with the Commission, in 
accordance with such rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or 
appropriate for the protection of investors and to insure fair dealing in the security, such quarterly 
and current reports as the Commission may prescribe; (d) caused Winners' violations of Section 
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, which requires public companies to make and keep books and 
records which accurately and fairly reflect its transactions and dispositions of assets; and (d) 
engaged in improper professional conduct.   
 
                                              IV. 
                                                
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents' Offers. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.     Effective immediately, Michael Johnson shall cease and desist from committing or 
causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act 
and Rules 10b-5 and 13b2-1 promulgated thereunder, and from causing any violations and any 
future violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-11 
and 13a-13 promulgated thereunder. 
 
       B.     Effective immediately, Michael Johnson & Co. shall cease and desist from 
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange 
Act and Rules 10b-5 and 13b2-1 promulgated thereunder, and from causing any violations and any 
future violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-11 
and 13a-13 promulgated thereunder. 
 
       C.     Respondent Johnson & Co. shall, within thirty (30) days of the entry of this Order, 
pay disgorgement of $10,250 and prejudgment interest of $6,248.86 for a total of $16,498.86 to the 
United States Treasury, representing unjust enrichment in the form of audit and other fees received 
from Winners while Respondents engaged in the conduct described above. Such payment shall be: 
(A) made by United States postal money order, certified check, bank cashier's check or bank 
money order; (B) made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission; (C) hand-delivered 
or mailed to the Office of Financial Management, Securities and Exchange Commission, 
Operations Center, 6432 General Green Way, Stop 0-3, Alexandria, VA 22312; and (D) submitted 
under cover letter that identifies Johnson & Co. as a Respondent in these proceedings, the file 
number of these proceedings, a copy of which cover letter and money order or check shall be sent 
to Polly Atkinson, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 1801 
California Street, Suite 1500, Denver, Colorado  80202. 
 
       D.     Respondents are denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as accountants pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.   
 

                                               5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       E.     After four (4) years from the date of this order, Respondents, or either of them,  may 
request that the Commission consider their reinstatement. 
 
       F.      Respondent Johnson may request that the Commission consider his reinstatement by 
submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company's financial statements that are filed with the Commission. Such 
application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent Johnson's work in his practice 
before the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the 
public company for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he 
practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                           (a)         Respondent Johnson, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board ("Board") in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
  (b) Respondent Johnson, or the register                   ed public accounting firm with which 
he is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any 
criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent's or firm's quality control system that would 
indicate that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision or, if the Board has not 
conducted an inspection, has received an unqualified report relating to his, or the firm’s, most 
recent peer review conducted in accordance with the guidelines adopted by the former SEC 
Practice Section of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Division for CPA 
Firms; or an organization providing equivalent oversight and quality control functions;; 

                            (c)         Respondent Johnson has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
  (d) Respondent Johnson acknowledges                       his responsibility, as long as he 
appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
control standards.   
      
       F.          Respondent Johnson & Co. may request that the Commission consider its 
reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) to 
resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant.  Such 
application must satisfy the Commission that: 
      

                                                 6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                            1.           Respondent Johnson & Co. is registered with the Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board ("Board") in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and 
such registration continues to be effective; 
         
                2.           Respondent Johnson & Co. has been inspected by the Board and that 
inspection did not identify any criticisms of, or potential defects in, the firm's quality control 
system that would indicate that any of its employees will not receive appropriate supervision, or, if 
the Board has not conducted an inspection, has received an unqualified report relating to Johnson 
& Co.'s most recent peer review conducted in accordance with the guidelines adopted by the 
former SEC Practice Section of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Division 
for CPA Firms; or an organization providing equivalent oversight and quality control functions;  
 
                3.      Respondent Johnson & Co. has resolved all disciplinary issues with the 
Board, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board 
(other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                4.           Respondent Johnson & Co. acknowledges its responsibility, as long as it 
appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
 
              G.          The Commission will consider an application by Respondents Johnson and/or 
Johnson & Co. to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that their 
state CPA licenses are current and they have resolved all other disciplinary issues with the 
applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependant on 
reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other 
merits. The Commission's review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters 
referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondents' character, integrity, professional 
conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission.   
 
 
 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

                                                    7 
