---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  

                                         Before the 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 52813 / November 21, 2005 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 2347 / November 21, 2005 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-10335 

                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE
In the Matter of 
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Donald C. Yount, Jr., CPA 
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION  
                          
        
       On September 19, 2000, the Commission filed a complaint against Donald C. Yount, Jr., 
(“Yount”) and others in SEC v. Charnock, et al. , Civil Action No. 00 2239.  On September 27, 
2000, a final judgment was entered by the United States District Court for the District of 
Columbia permanently enjoining Yount from violating Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 
1933 ("Securities Act") and Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 
Act”) and Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder and from aiding and abetting violations of  
Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act.  Yount consented to the entry of the final judgment 
without admitting or denying the allegations of the Commission's complaint.  On September 29, 
2000, Yount was suspended from appearing or practicing as an accountant before the 
Commission pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice.1 
                                                                            
        
       In the above referenced civil matter the Commission’s complaint alleged, among other 
things, that (1) from at least May 1996 through December 1997, Yount, as Senior Vice President 
and Chief Financial Officer of Versatility, Inc. (“Versatility”), knowingly or recklessly 
participated in the material overstatement of  Versatility's assets, revenues and earnings in its 
financial statements included in periodic reports and registration statements filed with the 
Commission; (2) Yount aided and abetted Versatility's failure to devise and maintain a system of 
internal accounting controls; and (3) Yount provided false or misleading management  
representation letters to Versatility's auditors in connection with Versatility's audit for fiscal year 
1997 and in connection with registration statements Versatility filed in December 1996 and 
March 1997. 
                                                 
1 
 See  Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 1323, dated September 29, 2000.  Yount was permitted,    
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after three years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
       This order is issued in response to Yount's application for reinstatement to practice before 
the Commission as an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial 
statements required to be filed with the Commission. 
 
       In any future capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the 
preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed with the Commission, Yount 
has stated that he will have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of any 
company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Yount is not, at this time, seeking to appear 
or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume  
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be      
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Yount's  
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”     2
                                                              This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Yount, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the September 29, 2000, order 
suspending him from practice before the Commission as an accountant, that no information has 
come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, professional conduct 
or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis for adverse action 
against him pursuant to Rule 102(  e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, and that Yount, by 
undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of any company for 
which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in his practice before 
the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be filed with the 
Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3)  
of this section may be made at any time, and the applic ant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated                         
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i).                        

                                                 2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

        
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Donald C. Yount, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
        
       By the Commission. 
                                             
                                            Jonathan G. Katz 
                                            Secretary 

                                               3
  
