---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                      the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  57705 / April 23, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2812 / April 23, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13018 

                                        : 
                                        : 
      In the Matter of                   :    ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                        :     ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
      Claude Fernandez (CPA),           :     PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                        :     COMMISSION’S RULES OF
 Res      pondent                       :     PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                        :     IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                        :
                                         : 

                                          I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Claude 
Fernandez (“Respondent” or “Fernandez”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1 

1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 

      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 

              1.      Fernandez, age 55, is a certified public accountant (“CPA”) with a lapsed 
New York license.  He has served as Managing Director of W.P. Carey & Co. LLC (“Carey”) from 
1997 through the present.  Fernandez also served as Chief Accounting Officer of Carey from 1997 
until June 14, 2007. 

              2.      Carey was, at all relevant times, a Delaware corporation with its principal 
place of business in New York, New York.  Carey is a real estate investment and advisory company.  
At all relevant times, Carey’s common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to 
Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and traded on the New 
York Stock Exchange.  Carey is the creator, manager, and advisor to a series of non-traded real 
estate investment trusts (the “CPA REITs”). 

              3.      On March 18, 2008, the Commission filed a complaint against Fernandez in 
Securities and Exchange Commission v. W.P. Carey & Co. LLC et al. (Civil Action No. 08 Civ. 
2846 (JSR) (S.D.N.Y.)).  On March 21, 2008, the court entered an order permanently enjoining 
Fernandez, by consent, (i) from future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities 
Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act, and Exchange Act Rule 
13b2-1, and (ii) from aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder.  Fernandez was also ordered to pay 
a $75,000 civil money penalty. 

              4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that from 
 approximately April 2000 until December 2003, Fernandez, as Carey’s Chief Accounting 
 Officer, participated in having the CPA REITs make a series of undisclosed revenue sharing 
 payments totaling approximately $9.7 million to a broker-dealer.  These payments were omitted 
 from the offering documents of the CPA REITs and misrepresented in quarterly and annual 
 reports filed with the Commission, including registration statements and periodic reports signed 
 by Fernandez.  Fernandez also participated in improperly labeling and misclassifying these 
 payments, which allowed Carey to evade a National Association of Securities Dealers rule 
 limiting broker-dealer compensation payments. 

                                               2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Fernandez’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     Fernandez is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.  

       B.     After two years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as:     

              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 

              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 

                      (a)    Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision;

               (c)           Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and

               (d)           Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 

       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
                                               3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

 By       the Commission. 

       N                                              ancy M. Morris
       S                                             ecretary 

                                                4

