---------------------Page 1---------------------

                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                          Before the  
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No.  53334 / February 17, 2006 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No.  2378 / February 17, 2006 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-10528 

                            :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Scott K. Barton, CPA  
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                           
        

       On July 2, 2001, Scott K. Barton ("Barton") was suspended from appearing or practicing 
as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public administrative proceedings 
instituted by the Commission against Barton pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules 
of Practice.1
              Barton consented to the entry of the findings, and imposition of the remedial 
sanctions set forth in the July 2, 2001 order, without admitting or denying the findings.  Barton 
also settled an injunctive action on which the 102(e) proceeding was based. 

       From 1981 through August 1996, Barton was employed as Controller of Paracelsus 
Healthcare Corporation (“Paracelsus”).  The Commission alleged, in its injunctive action, that 
Barton participated in misconduct by which Paracelsus inflated its quarterly and annual earnings 
in filings with the Commission from at least 1993 through August 1996.  Specifically, the 
Commission alleged that Barton and others created and used “cookie jar” reserves which were 
inappropriate under generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) because no probable 
and reasonably estimable exposures justified their creation, and because their later decrease 
artificially boosted Paracelsus’ earnings and concealed a decline in earnings.  Additionally, the 
                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 1417, dated July 2, 2001. 
 
Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Commission alleged that Barton and others failed to disclose all material facts regarding the 
misconduct to Paracelsus’ auditors. 
 
       This order is issued in response to Barton's application for reinstatement to practice 
before the Commission as an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial 
statements required to be filed with the Commission. 
 
              In any future capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the 
preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed with the Commission, Barton 
has stated that he will have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of any 
company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Barton is not, at this time, seeking to appear 
or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume 
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be 
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
continue to comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, 
Barton's suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant 
continues in effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in 
this regard in accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”  This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Barton, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the July 2, 2001 order suspending 
him from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no information 
has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, professional 
conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis for adverse 
action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, and that 
Barton, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of any 
company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in his 
practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Scott K. Barton, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
                                             
                                            Nancy M. Morris  
                                            Secretary  
