---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  53326 / February 16, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2376 / February 16, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No.  3-12208 
 
IN THE MATTER OF KEVIN M. HALL, CPA, AND ROSEMARY K. MEYER, CPA 
 
The United States Securities and Exchange Commission (Commission) announced the 
issuance of an Order Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of 
the Commission’s Rules of Practice (Order) against Kevin Hall, CPA, and Rosemary Meyer, 
CPA.  In the Order, the Division of Enforcement (Division) and the Office of the Chief 
Accountant (OCA) allege that Hall and Meyer engaged in improper professional conduct in 
the audit of U.S. Foodservice, Inc. (USF) for fiscal year 1999 and interim review for the 
second quarter of fiscal year 2000.  Hall and Meyer were the engagement partner and senior 
manager, respectively, for the audit and review work that KPMG LLP performed for USF.    
 
In the Order, the Division and OCA allege that Hall and Meyer found numerous instances 
where USF recognized income when it should not have, but Hall and Meyer refused to act 
upon or failed to recognize these and other “red flags.”  The Division and OCA assert that 
Hall and Meyer discovered that USF had recognized substantial unearned “prepayments” of 
income and Hall and Meyer documented those as “audit exceptions” in their audit working 
papers.  The Division and OCA contend that the existence of prepayments directly and 
explicitly contradicted USF management’s repeated representations that USF did not obtain 
vendor prepayments.  The Division and OCA also allege that Hall and Meyer obtained and 
reviewed audit evidence that directly contradicted USF’s accounting for payments used to 
improperly reduce aging accounts receivable balances. 
 
Additionally, the Division and OCA allege in the Order that Hall and Meyer were 
responsible for a flawed audit design that allowed third party confirmations to go to persons 
without any apparent knowledge about the underlying information being confirmed, in 
violation of Generally Accepted Auditing Standards.  The Division and OCA also charge that 
Hall and Meyer were aware that USF incurred substantial penalties under a long-term supply 
contract, but Hall and Meyer did not require USF to expense these payments and furthermore 
failed to require USF to assess its exposure to a contingent liability under the contract.   
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Finally, the Division and OCA allege that Hall and Meyer did not take the necessary 
additional steps to either clarify inconsistencies or bring problems to the attention of USF’s 
Audit Committee or others. 
 
A hearing will be scheduled before an Administrative Law Judge to determine whether such 
allegations are true, to afford the respondents an opportunity to establish defenses to the 
allegations, and to determine whether respondents should be censured by the Commission or 
temporarily or permanently denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission.  The Administrative Law Judge is directed to issue a decision no later than 300 
days from the date of service of the Order Instituting Proceedings, pursuant to Rule 360(a)(2) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  
 
