---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                      the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  56230 / August 9, 2007 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2667 / August 9, 2007 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12721 

In the Matter of                           ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                           ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
      JERRY KENT                           PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e)(3) OF THE 
      CASTLEMAN, CPA                       COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                           MAKING FINDINGS AND IMPOSING 
             Respondent.                   REMEDIAL SANCTION 

                                          I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are , instituted against Jerry 
Kent Castleman (“Respondent” or “Castleman”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1 

1 
      Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 

      The Commission, with due regard to the public  interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities la ws or of the rules and   regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (“Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of 
these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on be half of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over hi m and the subject matte r of these proceedi ngs, and the 
findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of 
this Order Instituting Public Administrative Pr oceedings Pursua nt to Rule 102(  e)(3) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanction (“Order”), as 
set forth below. 

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 

             1.       Castleman, age 43, is a nd has been a certified public accountant (“CPA”) 
licensed to practice in the State of Texas.  From March 1998 through September 2000, he was the 
Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (“CAO”) of Enron South America, and later the CAO 
of the Enron Industrial Markets  division of Enron Cor p. (“Enron” or the “company”).   Prior to 
joining Enron’s Corporate Accounting Unit in 1997, Castleman was an auditor at Arthur Andersen 
LLP. 

              2.      Enron was, at all rel evant times, an Oregon cor poration with its principal 
place of business in Houston, Texas.  Until its bankruptcy filing in December 2001, Enron was the 
seventh largest corporation in t he United States  based on reported revenue.   In the previous ten 
years, Enron had evolved from a regional natur al gas provider to a commodit y trader of natur al 
gas, electricity, and other physical commodities with retail operations in energy and other products. 
The Company also created and traded financial products.  At all relevant times, the common stock 
of Enron was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and traded on the New York Stock Exchange. 

              3.      On August 2, 2007, the  U. S. District Court for  the Southern District of 
Texas, Houston Division, entered a final judgment against Castleman, permanently enjoining him 
from violating Section 17(a) of  the Securities Act of  1933, Sec tions 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of  the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Excha nge Act Rules 10b-5, 13b2- 1 and 13b2-2, and from 
aiding and abetting violations of Exchange Act Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) and 
Exchange Act Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13.  Securities and Exchange Commission v. Jerry K. 
Castleman, et al. , Civil Action Number  06- 3226.   The Court also or dered Castleman to pa y 
$41,268.29, consisting of disgorgement of $30,000 and prejudgment  interest of $11,268.29, with 
all but $12,000 waived, based upon Castleman’s sworn financial statements and other documents 
and information. 

              4.      The  Commission’s  complaint  alleged  that Castle man  and  others 
participated in a transaction th at defrauded Enron’s security holders to enrich t hemselves and 
others.  The complaint also alleges that Respondent’s fraudulent conduct involved both the closing 

                                               2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

of a s ham sale pursuant to which Enron manufa ctured earnings, and the later unwinding of this 
sham sale by repurchasing the asset without reversing the previously (and improperly) recognized 
earnings. 

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     Castleman is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 

       B.     After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

              1.      a  preparer  or reviewer, or a person respons  ible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statem ents that are filed with the Comm ission.  Such 
an application m ust satisfy the Commission that  Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public com pany 
for which he works or in som  e other acceptabl e m anner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 

              2.      an inde pendent accountant.   Such an a pplication must s atisfy t he 
Commission that: 

                      (a)    Respondent,  or  the  public accounting firm  with which he is 
associated, is reg istered with the Public Co mpany Accounting Oversight  Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)    Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all term s and conditions of a ny sanctions im posed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      (d)    Respondent  acknowledges  his  responsibility,  as  long  as 
Respondent appears or practices   before the Comm  ission as an  independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality con trol 
standards. 

                                               3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Comm ission as an accountant provided   that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinar y issues with the ap  plicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the 
Commission will consid er an applic ation on it s other m erits.   The Commission’s review m ay 
include consideration of, in addition to the m atters referenced above, any other m atters relating 
to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional  conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice 
before the Commission. 

 By       the Commission. 

       N                                              ancy M. Morris
       S                                             ecretary 

                                               4

