---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                            STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                     the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
                                                                     CORRECTED COPY 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  55030 / December 29, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2529 / December 29, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12521 
 
                                              
In the Matter of                            ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
                                            PROCEEDINGS, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
      WHITEMARK HOMES, INC.,                IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
      KENNETH L. WHITE,                     PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF THE 
      ROBERT B. EARLY, AND                  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
      MITCHELL R. GORDON,  
 
Respondents. 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
                                          I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Whitemark Homes, Inc. (“Whitemark”), 
Kenneth L. White, Robert B. Early, and Mitchell R. Gordon (collectively, “Respondents”). 
                                           
                                         II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have each submitted an 
Offer of Settlement (collectively, the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  
Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of 
the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting 

 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant 
to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                                III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds1
                                                                                     that: 
 
                                           Respondents 
 
          1.              Whitemark, a Colorado corporation based in Oveido, Florida, develops and builds 
residential communities.  Whitemark stock is registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act, 
and has been traded on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board since April 2001.   
 
              2.           Kenneth L. White, age 57, is a resident of Winter Springs, Florida.  White was the 
founder of Whitemark and served as its chief executive officer until July 2005.  White obtained a 
Texas CPA license in 1975, but his license is not currently active.  White sold Whitemark stock in 
April 2002 at a price that was inflated as a result of Whitemark’s false financial reporting as further 
described below. 
 
              3.           Robert B. Early, age 49, is a resident of Abilene, Texas.  Early served as 
Whitemark’s chief financial officer (“CFO”) from June 2000 until March 2002.  Early has held a 
Texas CPA license since 1981.   
 
              4.           Mitchell R. Gordon, age 39, is a resident of Orlando, Florida.  Gordon served as 
Whitemark’s CFO from April 2002 until November 2003.  Gordon has held a Maryland CPA 
license since 1994.   
 
                                     Improper Consolidation 
 
              5.           In the Fall of 2001, Whitemark acquired North Florida Consulting, Inc. (“NFC”).  
With the acquisition of NFC, Whitemark’s reported inventory increased from approximately $9.5 
million before the acquisition to approximately $77.1 million after the acquisition.  In 2003, 
Whitemark and NFC settled litigation and rescinded the acquisition. 
        
              6.           After it acquired NFC, Whitemark improperly consolidated the financial statements 
of five entities which NFC had an option to acquire.  NFC did not have an ownership interest in 
these entities, and the options it held did not provide control of these entities’ management or 
direction sufficient to support consolidation under generally accepted accounting principles 
(“GAAP”).  As a result of this improper consolidation, inventory was overstated in Whitemark’s 
financial statements and other information included in Whitemark’s Form 10-K for the year ended 
                                                 
       1
         The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents' Offers of Settlement and are not binding 
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
        
 
                                                 2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

December 31, 2001; its Forms 8-K filed in November 2001, January 2002, and July 2002; and its 
Forms 10-Q for the first three quarters of 2002. 
 
              7.           White, Early, and Gordon were responsible for assuring the accuracy of 
Whitemark’s periodic and current filings during the time periods they were employed at 
Whitemark.  Although each of them knew that Whitemark had consolidated the financial 
statements of entities in which Whitemark did not have any ownership interest, none of these 
officers took the steps necessary to assure that Whitemark’s consolidation practices conformed 
with GAAP.  Each of these officers signed filings with the Commission in which Whitemark 
materially overstated its inventory as a result of Whitemark’s improper consolidation.  
 
                 Failure to Disclose and Adjust for Expired Purchase Options 
 
            8.           After it acquired NFC, Whitemark included in its reported inventory the value of 
certain options NFC held to purchase development properties or to purchase entities that owned 
development properties.  Pursuant to the terms of NFC’s contracts with property owners, five of 
these purchase options were set to expire in the first quarter of 2002. 
 
              9.           The value of these options represented approximately 30% of Whitemark’s reported 
inventory balance in its financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2001.  Although 
Whitemark filed its Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001 after the expiration of these 
options, Whitemark did not disclose the status of these options in its Form 10-K. 
 
              10.        Whitemark failed to make the appropriate adjustments to its financial statements, 
including a reduction in the inventory balance and corresponding expense adjustments, when these 
options expired in the first quarter of 2002.  As a result, Whitemark materially overstated its 
inventory, materially understated its associated expenses, and materially understated its net loss in 
its Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2002.  Whitemark also failed to disclose the expiration of 
these options in its first quarter 2002 Form 10-Q. 
 
              11.        Whitemark continued to carry values associated with the expired purchase options 
in its inventory account through the second and third quarters of 2002.  As a result, Whitemark 
materially overstated its inventory balance, materially understated its associated year-to-date 
expenses, and materially understated its year-to-date net losses in its Forms 10-Q filed for the 
second and third quarters of 2002.  Whitemark also failed to disclose the expiration of these 
options in its Forms 10-Q for the second and third quarters of 2002.  
 
              12.        White, Early, and Gordon each knew that Whitemark included in its reported 
inventory account the value of purchase options Whitemark had acquired at the time it acquired 
NFC.  Although these officers were responsible for the accuracy of Whitemark’s books, records, 
and filings with the Commission, none of them took the steps necessary to assure that Whitemark 
made required adjustments and included appropriate disclosures in Whitemark’s filings when these 
purchase options expired.  White and Gordon signed filings with the Commission in which 
Whitemark materially misstated its financial results and omitted to disclose information relating to 

                                                3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

the status of purchase options.  Early signed filings with the Commission in which Whitemark 
omitted to disclose information relating to the status of purchase options. 
 
                      Improper Reallocation of the NFC Purchase Price 
 
 13. When Whitemark acquired              NFC in 2001, it allocated the price it paid to purchase 
NFC to the various assets it acquired based on the appraised value of each asset.  Later, in its 
financial statements for the third quarter of 2002, Whitemark changed its method for allocating the 
purchase price for the NFC acquisition and instead based its allocation on the projected cash flows 
Whitemark expected to realize from each development project.  When Whitemark reallocated the 
NFC purchase price, Whitemark calculated the expected future cash flows from the development 
projects based in part on events that occurred after the NFC acquisition.  
 
 14. Whitemark’s change             in method for accounting for the NFC acquisition and 
consideration of post-acquisition events when reallocating the NFC purchase price were improper 
under GAAP.  In addition, Whitemark did not disclose its change in allocation method in its 
original and amended Forms 10-Q for the third quarter of 2002. 
 
              15.        Also in the third quarter of 2002, Whitemark decided to reduce its inventory 
account to write off most of the value associated with two development projects for which its 
purchase options had expired.  Whitemark wrote off values associated with these projects based on 
its reallocation of the NFC purchase price, and as a result reported a net loss for the quarter of 
approximately $1.9 million.  Had Whitemark written off the same assets without reallocating the 
NFC purchase price, it would have reported a net loss for the quarter of approximately $29.9 
million.  Since Whitemark’s reallocation of the NFC purchase price was improper, its adjustments 
to write off the value of these development projects were insufficient.  As a result, Whitemark 
materially overstated its inventory, materially understated its associated expenses, and materially 
understated its net loss for the third quarter of 2002.  Whitemark also did not disclose the impact of 
the reallocation on its adjustments associated with these two development projects. 
 
              16.        In its original and amended Forms 10-Q for the third quarter of 2002, as in previous 
filings, Whitemark represented that it valued purchase options based on the excess of their fair 
market value over their respective option prices.  In light of its new method for allocating the NFC 
purchase price, this statement was incorrect. 
  
              17.        Gordon, in consultation with White and others, performed the reallocation of the 
NFC purchase price.  Although White and Gordon were responsible for the accuracy of 
Whitemark’s periodic filings, neither of these officers took the steps necessary to assure that 
Whitemark’s reallocation of the NFC purchase price conformed with GAAP, that Whitemark made 
appropriate financial statement adjustments for discontinued development projects, or that 
Whitemark made appropriate disclosures about the reallocation and its effect.  White and Gordon 
signed filings with the Commission in which Whitemark materially misstated its financial results 
and valuation methodology, and omitted to disclose information associated with the reallocation of 
the NFC purchase price. 
 

                                                4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                            Books, Records, and Internal Controls 
                                                  
              18.        As described above, Whitemark improperly recorded its inventory and expenses for 
the year ended December 31, 2001, and for each of the first three quarters of 2002.  Therefore, its 
books, records and accounts did not, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect its 
transactions and dispositions of assets.  White, Early, and Gordon were responsible for 
Whitemark’s books, records, and accounts but failed to take the steps necessary to assure their 
accuracy. 
                                                  
              19.        Whitemark failed to implement internal accounting controls relating to its 
inventory, expenses, and net income which were sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that its 
accounts were accurately stated in conformity with GAAP.  White, Early, and Gordon were 
responsible for Whitemark’s internal accounting controls but failed to take the steps necessary to 
assure their sufficiency. 
                                                  
                                           Violations 
 
              20.        As a result of the conduct described above, Whitemark violated Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder, which require an issuer to 
file annual, current, and quarterly reports that are accurate and that contain such further material 
information as may be necessary to make the required statements, in light of the circumstances 
under which they were made, not misleading.  Due to acts or omissions they knew or should have 
known would contribute to such violations during their respective tenures at Whitemark, White 
was a cause of Whitemark’s violations of each of these provisions; Early was a cause of 
Whitemark’s violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-11 
thereunder; and Gordon was a cause of Whitemark’s violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange 
Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder. 
 
              21.        As a result of the conduct described above, Whitemark violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) 
of the Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder, which require reporting companies to make and 
keep books, records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their 
transactions and dispositions of their assets, and prohibit persons from directly or indirectly 
falsifying or causing to be falsified any book, record, or account.  White and Gordon each were a 
cause of Whitemark’s violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-1 
thereunder, and Early was a cause of Whitemark’s violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the 
Exchange Act, due to acts or omissions they knew or should have known would contribute to such 
violations. 
 
              22.        As a result of the conduct described above, Whitemark violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) 
of the Exchange Act, which requires all reporting companies to devise and maintain a system of 
internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions are 
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP.  
White, Early, and Gordon each were a cause of Whitemark’s violations of Section 13(b)(2)(B) of 
the Exchange Act due to acts or omissions they knew or should have known would contribute to 
such violations. 

                                                5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                                                   IV. 
                                                     
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
 A. Respondent Whitemark c                 ease and desist from committing or causing any violations 
and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and 
Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, 13a-13, and 13b2-1 thereunder.  
 
 B. Respondent White cease                and desist from causing any violations and any future 
violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 
13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder, and cease and desist from committing or causing any 
violations and any future violations of Rule 13b2-1 under the Exchange Act. 
 
              C.          Respondent Early cease and desist from causing any violations and any future 
violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)( B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 
13a-1, and 13a-11 thereunder. 
 
              D.          Respondent Gordon cease and desist from causing any violations and any future 
violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 
13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder, and cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
any future violations of Rule 13b2-1 under the Exchange Act. 
 
              E.          IT IS FURTHERED ORDERED that Respondent White shall, within thirty days of 
the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement in the amount of $31,180 and prejudgment interest in the 
amount of $5,374 to the United States Treasury.  Such payment shall be: (A) made by United 
States postal money order, certified check, bank cashier's check or bank money order; (B) made 
payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission; (C) hand-delivered or mailed to the Office of 
Financial Management, Securities and Exchange Commission, Operations Center, 6432 General 
Green Way, Alexandria, Stop 0-3, VA 22312; and (D) submitted under cover letter that identifies 
Kenneth L. White as a Respondent in these proceedings, the file number of these proceedings, a 
copy of which cover letter and money order or check shall be sent to Laura M. Metcalfe, Assistant 
Regional Director, Securities and Exchange Commission, 1801 California St., Ste. 1500, Denver, 
Colorado  80202.  
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

                                                    6 
