---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                                 

                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  

                                          Before the 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 51802 / June 8, 2005 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 2255 / June 8, 2005 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-10406 

                            :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                            :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE
In the Matter of 
                            :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                            :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Mark Steven Lynch, CPA 
                            :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                            :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION  
                           
        

       On January 17, 2001, Mark Steven Lynch (“Lynch”) was suspended from appearing or 
practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public administrative 
proceedings instituted by the Commission against Lynch pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                  This order is issued in response to Lynch’s application for 
reinstatement to practice before the Commission as an accountant responsible for the preparation 
or review of financial statements required to be filed with the Commission. 

       The suspension stemmed from a final judgment entered by the United States District 
Court for the District of Columbia permanently enjoining Lynch from violating Section 17(a) of 
the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rules 
10b-5 and 13b2-1 promulgated thereunder.  Lynch consented to the entry of the final judgment 
without admitting or denying the allegations of the Commission’s complaint.  The Commission’s 
complaint alleged that Lynch knowingly or recklessly participated in the material overstatement 
of MicroStrategy Inc.’s (“MicroStrategy”) revenues and earnings in its financial statements 
included in periodic reports and registration statements filed with the Commission.  The 
                                                 
1 
 See  Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 1359, dated January 17, 2001.  Lynch was permitted,   
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after three years upon making certain showings. 
 
Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3)  
of this section may be made at any time, and the applic ant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated                         
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i).                        
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                 

company’s reporting failures primarily derived from its premature recognition of revenue in 
multiple element deals involving software sales.  The premature recognition also extended to 
revenue on contracts that had not been properly executed in the same fiscal period that the 
revenue was recorded.  Furthermore, Lynch was alleged to have directly or indirectly falsified or  
caused to be falsified MicroStrategy’s books and records. 
 
       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Lynch 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some  other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Lynch is not, at this time, seeking to appear 
or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume  
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be  
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Lynch’s 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”  This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Lynch, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the January 17, 2001 order 
suspending him from practice before the Commission as an accountant, that no information has 
come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, professional conduct 
or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis for adverse action 
against him pursuant to Rule 102( e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, and that Lynch, by 
undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of any company for 
which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in his practice before 
the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be filed with the 
Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Mark Steven Lynch, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as 
an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                             
                                             
                                             
                                            Jonathan G. Katz 
                                            Secretary 
