---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                              the 
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  53636 / April 12, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2412 / April 12, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12262 
                                                               
     : 
              In the Matter of                         :             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
     : PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
              Michael D. Karsch,                  :             102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
     : PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
 Respondent.   : IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
     : 
                                                              : 

 I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in 
the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
Michael D. Karsch (“Respondent” or “Karsch”)  pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1
                      
 
 II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these  proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission        has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other         proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
                                                 
1
            Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public  interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from  appearing or practicing before it any attorney . . . who has been 
by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her 
misconduct in an action brought by the Commission,   from violating or aiding and abetting the 
violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

  
 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party         and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisd iction over him and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, and the findings c  ontained in Section III., Paragraph 3,   below, which are 
admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of th is Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings 
Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Ru les of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing 
Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
       1.           Karsch, age 45, is an attorney licensed to practice in Florida, Texas and New York.   
        
       2.           2DoTrade was, at all relevant times, a Nevada corporation with its principal place of 
business in British Columbia, Canada, and London, England.  2DoTrade was purportedly engaged in 
an import/export business.  2DoTrade’s comm  on stock was registered with the Commission 
pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and its shares 
were quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. 
 
       3.          On September 30, 2003, the Commission filed a complaint against Karsch and 
others in SEC v. 2DoTrade, Inc., et al.  (Civil Action No. 3:03-CV-2246/NDTX).  On March 29, 
2006, the court entered an order permanently enjoining Karsch, by consent, from future 
violations of Sections 5(a), 5(c) and 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, a nd Section 10(b) of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.  Karsch was ordered to pay $2,721 in disgorgement of 
ill-gotten gains from his sales of stock while pa rticipating in the fraud, and $238 in prejudgment 
interest.    
 
       4.          The Commission’s complaint alleged that  certain defendants engaged in a “pump 
and dump” scheme designed to inflate 2DoTrade’s        stock price.  Between at least June and 
November 2001, the defendants, among other things      , issued materially false and misleading 
press releases claiming that 2DoTrade had entered into several large international trading 
contracts and had developed an anti-anthrax compound.  During the same period, the defendants 
sold shares of 2DoTrade stock for illegal tradi ng profits of at least  $1.8 million.  The complaint 
alleged further that Karsch assisted the defendants in perpetrating and executing the scheme, and 
that MCG Partners, Inc., of which Karsch was a   director, sold shares of 2DoTrade for illegal 
trading profits. 
        
        
        
        

                                                2
---------------------Page 3---------------------

  
 
                                                                                   IV. 
                                                                                       
              In view of the foregoing, the Commission deem s it appropriate and in the public interest 
to impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Karsch’s Offer. 
 
             Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effectiv                                          e immediately, that Karsch is suspended 
from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an attorney.   
       
              By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 
 

                                                                                     3
