---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                 STATES OF AMERICA 
 before                                           the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 55887 / June 8, 2007 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2615 / June 8, 2007 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12655
                                             
      :  
 :                                                   
 :                                                   
     In the Matter of                       :             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                   :             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
          RAYMOND L. MATHIASEN, CPA  :             102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                   :             PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
  Respondent.    : IMPO                                   SING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                         :      
                                         :      
____________________________________ :              
                                                     
 
                                               I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
Raymond L. Mathiasen (“Respondent” or “Mathiasen”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice.1
                                   
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3. below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                                III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
                     1.           Mathiasen is a resident of Los Angeles, California and was the former 
chief accounting officer of Tenet Healthcare Corporation (“Tenet”).  Mathiasen joined Tenet 
(then known as National Medical Enterprises) in 1985 as a vice president in its accounting 
department.  He became Tenet’s chief accounting officer in March 1996.  He remained in that 
position until at least November 2002.  Mathiasen retired from Tenet in April 2004.   Mathiasen 
has been licensed as a CPA in California since 1969.  His license is currently inactive.         

  2. Tenet is a Nevada corporation with                   its principal executive offices in Dallas, 
Texas.  During the relevant time period, Tenet maintained its principal executive offices in Santa 
Barbara, California.  Tenet is one of the largest publicly traded healthcare companies in the United 
States. 
 
                            3.           On April 2, 2007, the Commission filed a complaint against Mathiasen in 
SEC v. Tenet Healthcare Corp., et al., in the United States District Court for the Central District of 
California (the “Court”) (Civil Action No. CV 07-2144 RGK (AGRx)).  On April 16, 2007, the 
Court entered a Final Judgment Of Permanent Injunction And Other Relief Against Defendant 
Raymond L. Mathiasen (“Judgment”) which (a) permanently enjoins Mathiasen from future 
violations of  Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) and Section 10(b) 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), and Rules 10b-5 and 13b2-1 
thereunder, and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange 
Act, and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 promulgated thereunder; (b) orders Mathiasen to pay $1 
in disgorgement and a $240,000 civil penalty; and (c) prohibits Mathiasen from acting as an officer 
or director of any issuer that has a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the 
Exchange Act, or that is required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act for a 
period of five years.  Mathiasen consented to the entry of the Judgment without admitting or 
denying any of the allegations in the complaint.  
 
                     4.           The Commission alleged that Mathiasen participated in a fraudulent 
scheme, in which Tenet made misleading disclosures in the Form 10-K that it filed with the 
Commission for its year ended May 31, 2002 and in the Form 10-Q that it filed with the 
                                                 2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

Commission for Tenet’s first quarter of its fiscal year 2003 ending August 30, 2002.  Mathiasen 
signed each filing and substantially participated in the preparation of these filings.  Mathiasen also 
knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that each filing was misleading because it failed to disclose 
the material impact that Tenet’s increases in gross charges was having on the company’s Medicare 
outlier revenue, and thereby on its earnings.  The complaint further alleged that Mathiasen 
authorized improper manual adjustments to Tenet’s contractual allowance reserve accounts from 
fiscal year 2000 through fiscal year 2003, in violation of Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles.  As a result of Mathiasen’s conduct, Tenet had to restate its financial statements from 
fiscal year 2000 through fiscal year 2004. 
 
                                                       IV. 
                                                          
         In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
         
        Mathiasen is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

                                                        3 
