---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                      the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  53732 / April 27, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2424 / April 27, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.   3-12280 
 
                                              ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
In the Matter of                              PROCEEDINGS, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                              IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
      OIL STATES                              PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF THE 
      INTERNATIONAL, INC.                     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
 
Respondent. 
 
                                                
 
                                           I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Oil States International, Inc. (“Oil States” or 
“Respondent”).   
                                            
                                          II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to 
Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1
                                                                                 that:  
 
                                           Summary 

               1.           This matter involves Oil States’ violations of the books and records and 
internal controls provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) (Sections 
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act), arising from certain payments made through 
its Hydraulic Well Control, LLC (“HWC”) subsidiary.  Oil States, through certain employees of 
HWC, provided approximately $348,350 in improper payments to employees of Petróleos de 
Venezuela, S.A. (“PDVSA”), an energy company owned by the government of Venezuela.  The 
employees were asked to participate in the scheme by a consultant for HWC, after he was 
requested to do so by the PDVSA employees.  HWC improperly recorded the payments in its 
accounting books and records as ordinary business expenses, which were consolidated into those 
of its parent, Oil States.  Oil States’ internal controls failed to ensure that HWC’s books and 
records accurately reflected the nature and purpose of these payments. 

                                          Respondent 

               2.           Oil States is a Delaware corporation with its headquarters in Houston, 
Texas.  Oil States is a specialty provider to oil and gas drilling and production companies in the 
United States and in many of the world’s active oil and gas producing regions, including South 
America.  Oil States’ common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) 
of the Exchange Act and is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. 

                                        Relevant Party 

               3.           HWC was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Oil States during the relevant 
period.  HWC operates specially designed rigs and provides well site services, including 
workover and snubbing services, to oil and gas producers in Venezuela and other countries.  
HWC has its headquarters in Houma, Louisiana and has a branch office in Eastern Venezuela 
(“HWC Venezuela”).  HWC Venezuela contributed approximately 1% of Oil States’ 
consolidated revenues during the relevant period.  

                                              Facts 

       A.     Background 

               4.     In 2000, HWC hired a Venezuelan consultant (the “Consultant”) to 
interface with employees of PDVSA on behalf of HWC in the field and at the office level.  
Specifically, the Consultant acted on behalf of HWC to follow up on daily operations, translate 
                                                 
       1
         The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding 
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   
 
                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

information into Spanish, write up tickets in accordance with PDVSA requirements and submit 
HWC invoices to PDVSA for payment.  HWC did not investigate the background of the 
Consultant.  The Consultant was not involved in the solicitation to obtain business on behalf of 
HWC, and only worked on the operational matters referenced above.  The Consultant submitted 
invoices for his services to HWC.  HWC had certain FCPA policies in place; however, HWC 
provided no formal training or education to the Consultant regarding the requirements of the 
FCPA.  Further, a written contract between HWC and the Consultant failed to address 
compliance with the requirements of U.S. law, including the provisions of the FCPA. 

               5.     In December 2003, the Consultant was approached by three PDVSA 
employees about a proposed “kickback” scheme.  The PDVSA employees proposed that the 
Consultant submit inflated bills to HWC for his services and kickback the excess to the PDVSA 
employees.  At the same time, HWC would improperly bill PDVSA for “lost rig time” on jobs.     2
                                                                                                  
If HWC did not comply with the proposed scheme, the PDVSA employees were capable of 
stopping or delaying HWC’s work.  After learning of the proposed scheme from the Consultant, 
three HWC Venezuela employees acceded to and facilitated the improper activity.  The 
Consultant provided inflated invoices for his services and other documents inaccurately 
reflecting the amount of rig time billable to PDVSA.  HWC employees incorporated these 
documents into HWC’s books and records and HWC passed on an undetermined amount of the 
improper payments in inflated invoices to PDVSA.   

       B.          Over-charges for Lost Rig Time 

               6.     On December 10, 2003, the Consultant submitted to HWC an invoice for 
services that sought payment of B50,000,000 ($26,041.66), plus taxes. 3
                                                                         On December 16, 2003, 
the Consultant submitted to HWC an invoice for services that sought payment of B52,000,000 
($27,083.33), plus taxes.  HWC paid the Consultant.  HWC’s payment of these invoices resulted 
in the first improper payments to the PDVSA employees through the consultant.  Due to the 
difficulties in assessing lost rig time and the falsified documentation prepared by the Consultant 
and approved by the HWC and PDVSA employees, it is not possible to quantify the total amount 
of “lost rig time,” if any, paid for by PDVSA during this time period.4
                                                                         

               7.     On November 12, 2004, HWC received an invoice from the Consultant 
that sought payment of B296,980,332 ($154,677.00).  Payment of the invoice by HWC resulted 
in improper payments to the PDVSA employees.  On November 17, 2004, HWC billed PDVSA 
approximately $400,840.63 for forty-three days of rig time.  HWC employees have confirmed 
that at least some portion of the forty-three days would have been deemed “lost rig time” by the 
PDVSA employees and therefore not properly chargeable to PDVSA. 

                                                 
2
                “Lost rig time” is time that PDVSA contends is not properly billable to it. 
 
3
                Calculation of the U.S. dollar value of the payments made in Venezuelan local currency (Bolivar) is based 
upon an exchange rate calculated as follows: Venezuelan Bolivar amount divided by 1,920. 
 
4
                “Lost rig time” is a frequently disputed calculation because there are varying legitimate but subjective 
reasons for billing a client for downtime during a job.   
                                                3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       C.          Over-charges for Gel 

              8.      In March 2004, the PDVSA employees approached the Consultant with a 
change in the scheme.  The PDVSA employees instructed the Consultant to continue to submit 
inflated invoices to HWC, this time for the inclusion of “gel” (a mineral-based material that is 
used in drilling to control viscosity and to protect formations from drilling fluids) that had not 
actually been used on PDVSA jobs.  The Consultant and the HWC employees agreed to continue 
the improper payments and, between April 2004 and November 2004, participated in five 
transactions involving over-charges to PDVSA for gel.  During this time, HWC paid the 
Consultant approximately $412,000, some or all of which was used to make improper payments 
to the PDVSA employees.  During this same time period, HWC charged PDVSA $348,350 for 
gel.  The amount of gel legitimately charged to PDVSA is unknown. 

              9.           In August 2004, HWC’s Vice President of Finance in the U.S. noticed 
increasing contract labor (including consulting) expenses at HWC Venezuela.  When he inquired 
into the increasing expenses, the controller at HWC Venezuela responded that the expenses were 
“gel-related.”  Despite this vague explanation, HWC’s Vice President of Finance conducted no 
additional investigation of the issue and the scheme continued                             . 

              10.        In December 2004, during a routine review of HWC’s results while 
preparing the budget for the following fiscal year, HWC senior management in the U.S. 
discovered departures from HWC Venezuela’s operating plan.  Specifically, HWC management 
noted an unexplained narrowing of profit margins in the Venezuelan operations, which caused 
management to make immediate inquiry.  As a result of that inquiry, the U.S. management of 
HWC learned of the kickback scheme.  HWC reported the matter to Oil States’ management, 
which, in turn, reported the scheme to the company’s audit committee.  An internal investigation 
conducted by Oil States uncovered no evidence that HWC or Oil States employees in the United 
States were aware of or sanctioned the improper payments.  Upon completion of the internal 
investigation, Oil States terminated its relationship with the Consultant and disciplined the 
employees responsible for the misconduct (including dismissing two HWC Venezuela 
employees).  Oil States also corrected its books and records, strengthened its regulatory 
compliance program, and reimbursed PDVSA for the improper charges.  Oil States also 
voluntarily provided their report of investigation to the Commission and the Department of 
Justice, and disclosed the scheme in its public filings.  It then cooperated fully with the 
investigation conducted by the Commission staff. 

       D. Violations 

              11.        The FCPA, enacted in 1977, added Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(A) to 
require public companies to make and keep books, records and accounts, which, in reasonable 
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the issuer, 
and added Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(B) to require such companies to devise and maintain a 
system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that: (i) 
transactions are executed in accordance with management’s general or specific authorization; 
and (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in 

                                               4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such 
statements, and to maintain accountability for assets.   

                 12.        Because HWC improperly recorded the payments to the PDVSA 
employees as ordinary business expenses, its books, records and accounts did not, in reasonable 
detail, accurately and fairly reflect its transactions and dispositions of assets. 

                 13.        As a result of the conduct described above, Oil States violated Section 
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act. 

                 14.        In addition, HWC failed to take steps to ensure that the Consultant 
complied with the FCPA and to ensure that the nature and purpose of the payments to the 
PDVSA employees were accurately reflected in HWC’s books and records.   

                 15.        As a result of the conduct described above, Oil States violated Section 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act.  
                  
                                      Oil States’ Remedial Efforts 
                                                        
        In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts 
promptly undertaken by Respondent and cooperation afforded the Commission staff.  
 
                                                     IV. 
                                                        
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Oil States’ Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that Respondent Oil States cease and desist from 
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. 
 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 
        

                                                      5 
