---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
 
 Before                                        the 

                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 59758 / April 13, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2961 / April 13, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13441 
                                               
                                               
                                               
In the Matter of 
                            ORDER INSTITUTING   
                                              ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
ANTONIO CANOVA (CPA), 
                       PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE     
                                              COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
Respondent. 
                                 MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING             
                                              REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                               
                                               
 
 
                                            I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in 
the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant 
to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice against Antonio Canova, CPA (“Canova” 
or “Respondent”).1 
                  
 
                                           II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 

                                                 
1
   Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, 
Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to                         
Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial  
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.  
 
                                               III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
        
                          1. Canova, age 46, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to 
practice in the State of California.  He served as Chief Financial Officer of Brocade 
Communications Systems, Inc. (“Brocade”) beginning in 2001 through 2005.    
 
                                 2. Brocade was, at all relevant times,  a Delaware corporation with its principal 
place of business in San Jose, California.  Brocade develops and sells computer storage networking 
products.  Since May 1999 when it completed its initial public offering of stock, Brocade’s 
securities have been traded on the Nasdaq National Market, and the company has had common 
stock registered with the Commission under Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Exchange Act”).   
 
                          3. On April 6, 2009, a final judgment was entered by consent against Canova, 
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act 
of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13b2-1, 13b2-2, 
and 13a-14 thereunder, and from aiding and abetting future violations of Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder,  
in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Gregory L. Reyes, et al., No. 
3:06-cv-04435-CRB, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California.  
 
               4.     The Commission’s complaint alleged that, during his tenure as CFO, 
Canova received information calling into question the integrity of Brocade’s financial statements 
based on its options granting process carried out  by Brocade’s then chief executive officer.  
Canova received emails and other information suggesting that Reyes was backdating options 
grants to executives and others so that the grantees would receive in-the-money options that 
appeared to be granted at-the-money.  The complaint further alleged that Canova did not, in a  
timely manner, investigate or review the impact of certain options grants on Brocade’s financial 
statements, and that, as a consequence, Brocade issued materially misleading financial statements  
included in annual and quarterly reports filed on Forms 10-K and 10-Q with the Commission 
during the company’s fiscal years 2001 through 2004, which Canova certified and which should 
have recorded a compensation expense for the  in-the-money options grants but did not.   
        
 

                                                2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                IV. 
                                                   
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest 
to impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.  
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
       A.      Canova is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
       B.      After three years from the date of this Order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (Attention:  Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
        
               1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
      
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                            (a) Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight     Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                       (b)    Respondent, or the registered  public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms  
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                (c)           Respondent has resolved all di  sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                       (d)    Respondent acknowledges     his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 
 
       C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 

                                                 3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 
 
        By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                            Elizabeth M. Murphy     
       Secretary                                                        
 

                                                       4
  
