---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                        Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 58441 / August 29, 2008 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2870 / August 29, 2008 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-13151 
 
                                           
 : 
              In the Matter of            :             ORDER INSTITUTING  
 :                                               ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
 JERRY L. BURDICK,            CPA,              :             PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                          :             COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
              Respondent.                 :             MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
 :                                               REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
____________________________________ :

                                             I. 

              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Jerry L. 
Burdick (“Respondent” or “Burdick”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1

                                               

                                               

                                               
                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without 
       preliminary hearing, may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or 
       practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has been by name . . . 
       permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of 
       his or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from 
       violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the 
       Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations thereunder. 
        
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               II. 

              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings and the findings contained in Section III.3. below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below. 

                                              III. 

              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 

              1.     Burdick, age 68, is a former director of SeraCare Life Sciences, Inc. 
(“SeraCare”).  He also served as SeraCare’s interim chief financial officer from February 2005 
through May 2005.  Burdick served as a director on SeraCare’s board until his resignation in 
March 2006.  Burdick is a certified public accountant licensed in the State of California whose 
license was obtained in 1964 and which lapsed in 1997. 

              2.     SeraCare is a Delaware corporation currently based in West Bridgewater, 
Massachusetts.  In 2005, SeraCare’s principal headquarters were in Oceanside, California and its 
common stock was registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Exchange Act”) and listed on the Nasdaq National Market.  SeraCare operated as a supplier and 
manufacturer of biological products (such as blood and plasma) for the biotechnology and 
pharmaceutical industry.  

              3.     On August 14, 2008, a final judgment was entered against Burdick 
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Section 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act 
of 1933 and Rules 13a-14, 13b2-1, and 13b2-2 of the Exchange Act, and aiding and abetting 
violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-13 
thereunder, in the civil action entitled SEC v. Michael F. Crowley and Jerry L. Burdick in the 
United States District Court for the Southern District of California.  The final judgment also 
ordered Burdick to pay $25,000.  Burdick consented to the entry of the judgment without admitting 
or denying any of the allegations in the complaint. 

              4.     The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that SeraCare, 
through the misconduct of Burdick, misstated its financial statements by inflating income before 
taxes for the second and third quarters of fiscal year 2005 by 20% and 17%, respectively.  The 
complaint alleged that Burdick improperly released general inventory reserves that he created 
following a major acquisition by SeraCare, which caused SeraCare’s net income before taxes to be 
inflated in the second and third quarters of 2005.  The complaint further alleged that Burdick 
caused misrepresentations to be made to SeraCare’s auditors by creating a backdated letter that was 
given to the auditors as support for recognizing revenue on an almost $1 million sale before the 

                                               2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

close of the fiscal year.  The complaint further alleged that Burdick also caused misrepresentations 
to be made to SeraCare’s auditors by providing an increased inventory valuation without any 
documented or verifiable support. 

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Burdick’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:   

       A.     Burdick is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant. 

       B.     After one year from the date of this Order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

              1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  
Such an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice 
before the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the 
public company for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he 
practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 

              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 

                      a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) 
in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be 
effective; 

                      b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with 
which he is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify 
any criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control 
system that would indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the 
Board, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the 
Board (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      d)     Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited 
to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and 
quality control standards.   
                                               3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

           C.       The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
        Florence E. Harmon 
                  Acting Secretary 

                                                                        4 
