---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED                               STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                         the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 59751 / April 13, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2960 / April 13, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13439 
                                               ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                               ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
                                                PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
In the Matter of                                COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                                MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
       Jesus A. Lago, CPA,                      REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
 
Respondent. 
 
  
 
                                             I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Jesus A. Lago, CPA 
(“Respondent” or “Lago”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.1 
                                                                                           
                                               
                                             II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
       The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before  
it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct.                                      
 
 
        
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”) as set forth below.   
 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds 2
                                                                                that:  
 
A. SUMMARY     
 
           VoIP Inc. (“VoIP” or “the Company”) is a telecommunications company based in 
Altamonte Springs, Florida.  Among other things, VoIP fraudulently overstated its revenues and 
understated its net losses for the year ended December 31, 2004, through a series of phony sales and 
sham transactions, in violation of generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).  As 
engagement partner for Berkovits & Co. LLP f/k/a Berkovits, Lago & Co. (“BLC”), Lago 
supervised BLC’s annual audit of VoIP’s 2004 financial statements.  In March 2005, BLC issued  
an audit report, signed by Lago, containing an unqualified audit opinion on VoIP’s 2004 financial 
statements.  In supervising the audit, Lago did not adequately perform his work in accordance with 
the auditing standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”).  With 
regard to certain audit items in the 2004 audit, he did not adequately plan and supervise the audits, 
did not obtain sufficient competent evidential matter, did not maintain an attitude of professional 
skepticism, and did not ensure adequate work paper documentation.  Lago thereby engaged in 
improper professional conduct in connection with BLC’s audit of VoIP’s 2004 financial statements  
within the meaning of Rule 102(e)(ii).   
 
B.      RESPONDENT  
 
       Lago, 47, is a resident of Aventura, Florida.  Until September 2007, Lago was a partner of 
a Fort Lauderdale, Florida firm, BLC, and, from 2004 to September 2007, served as the 
engagement partner for the firm’s annual audits of VoIP.  In September 2007, Lago left BLC to 
become a partner for another accounting firm.  Lago is a certified public accountant and has been 
licensed to practice in the state of Florida since 1983.   
 
C.     OTHER RELEVANT ENTITY  
 
       VoIP  is a Texas corporation with principle executive offices in Altamonte Springs, Florida.  
VoIP provided voice-over-Internet telecommunication services to retail and wholesale customers.  
VoIP’s common stock has been registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of  the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) since January 19, 2000.  From April 2004 through July 2007, 
VoIP’s stock traded on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board.  It is currently quoted on the Pink 
Sheets disseminated by Pink OTC Markets, Inc.   VoIP closed its offices in Altamonte Springs and 
ceased the majority of its  operations in February 2008. 
        
                                                 
2 
  The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other   
person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   
                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

D. FACTS 
 
       1.     VoIP’s False Financial Statements 
 
        a.            VoIP engaged in fr audulent accounting practices that resulted in inflated 
revenues and understated net losses in its annual financial statements for 2004, among other 
quarters.  These practices involved the recording of fictitious sales and sham transactions on the  
books of a VoIP subsidiary, DTNet Technologies, Inc. (“DTNet”), by the Company’s former CFO, 
and the former General Manager of DTNet.  As part of this scheme, VoIP overstated its revenues 
by recording phony sales to five companies owned and operated by the former owner of DTNet.     
The purported products and services, however, were not actually provided to these companies.  
VoIP also overstated its revenues by reporting sham sales transactions with a plumbing supply 
company owned and operated by long-time friends of the DTNet    General Manager.  Under these 
arrangements, DTNet agreed to ship inventory to the plumbing s upply company with the 
agreement that it would be repurchased at a later  date.  VoIP improperly recorded the phony sales 
and sham transactions as revenue and accounts receivable.   
 
              b.      As a result, VoIP filed a Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 
that materially overstated VoIP’s revenues and understated its losses.  In May 2006, VoIP restated 
its financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004.  The restatements establish that 
VoIP’s revenues and net loss for the year ended December 31, 2004 were misstated by 43%  
($791,200) and 8% ($462,618), respectively.  
          
       2.     Lago’s 2004 Audit of VoIP  
   
              a.      In March 2005, Lago issued an unqualified audit report on behalf of BLC 
stating that VoIP’s 2004 financial statements were presented fairly, in all material respects, in 
conformity with GAAP.   However, Lago did not adequately    conduct the 2004 Audit in accordance  
with the auditing standards of the PCAOB (hereinafter referred to as the “Auditing Standards”).  
Among other things, Lago did not properly plan and supervise the audit, exercise due professional 
care and skepticism, obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to afford a reasonable basis for 
an opinion regarding the financial statements, and prepare appropriate audit documentation. 
        
              Lago Did Not Adequately Plan the 2004 Audit  
 
              b.      As the engagement partner, Lago was responsible for VoIP’s audit 
planning.   Proper audit planni ng under the Auditing Standards requires, among other things, (1) 
the identification of areas requiring special attention or of special concern; (2) the consideration of 
conditions that may require the extension or modification of audit tests, such as the risk of material 
error or fraud; (3) the incorporation of identified risks into both audit planning and audit execution; 
and (4) adequate communication of identified risks to the audit team.   As discussed below, Lago’s  
planning for VoIP’s 2004 Audit did not comply with these Auditing Standards.  
               
              c.      Lago did not comply with the Auditing Standards because he did not 
incorporate, or confirm that the BLC audit team incorporated, known risks into the BLC audit plan 

                                               3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

for VoIP.  During an initial planning meeting, the BLC audit team identified several potential risks, 
including VoIP’s small and inexperienced accounting staff, the pressures on VoIP to meet budget 
expectations, and the potential for VoIP’s management to manipulate information and improperly 
recognize revenue.   Despite identifying potentia l fraud risk factors during the initial planning 
meeting, Lago did not further address these risks in  the planning of the audit, or require that the 
BLC audit team document these risks or otherwise address them in their audit planning.  Lago 
further did not incorporate appropriate audit procedures that would require the audit team to 
heighten their overall awareness or levels of professional skepticism as they related to the 
identified risks. 
 
               d.     Lago also did not require that the  BLC audit team perform the most basic  
preliminary and analytical procedures necessary for audit planning and fraud consideration, 
including the assessment and documentation of the risk of material misstatement, the assessment 
and risk of management override of internal controls, and the assessment and identification of 
potential related parties and related transactions.  Lago’s failure to require the BLC audit team to 
perform these basic planning procedures during VoIP’s 2004 audit represented a significant 
departure from the Auditing Standards.    
 
               Lago Did Not Obtain Sufficient Competent Evidence  
               and Maintain an Attitude of Professional Skepticism  
                
               e.     Although the Auditing Standards presume there to be a material risk of 
misstatement due to fraud in the recognition of revenue, the 2004 VoIP audit work papers reveal 
that Lago’s audit team performed limited procedures regarding the existence and accuracy of 
VoIP’s recorded revenues.  While Lago’s audit identified this Auditing Standard requirement, he 
did not incorporate the risk into audit procedures and did not maintain the required heightened 
sense of skepticism in this area.  BLC’s own audit program, included in the audit work papers, 
included procedures for testing revenue, including, but not limited to, basic audit steps such as  
sales cutoff testing and the investigation of revenue transactions with related parties.  However, the 
overwhelming majority of these audit steps were either ignored, initialed as “not considered 
necessary,” or initialed as “done” without any supporting documentation.    
                
               f.       For example, one of the steps in BLC’s audit program required the audit   
team to scan VoIP’s sales journals and investigate  large or unusual transactions near year end.  The 
BLC audit program reflected the step as done and it was initialed and dated by a member of the 
audit team.  There was no further explanation or supporting documentation evidencing this audit  
step.  However, on the last day of 2004 (i.e., December 31st
                                                          ) $250,000 in revenues from sales to 
only two customers had been record on DTNet’s sale journal, representing more than 8% of 
VoIP’s consolidated revenues for the entire year.  Given the size and timing of these transactions, 
the audit team’s failure to review or obtain supporting documentation constituted a clear departure 
from the Auditing Standards. 
                
               g.      Lago also did not obtain sufficient evidence and did not maintain an 
attitude of professional skepticism while performing the audit procedures related to VoIP’s 
accounts receivable.  Because he did not perform any planning procedures with respect to related 

                                                4
  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

parties, he could not ensure that he would respond appropriately to suspicious receivables.  For 
example, as part of the accounts receivable confirmation process, the audit team received a 
confirmation response related to amounts due to VoIP from entities that the team noted should be 
considered related parties.  The confirmed balance represented almost 17% of VoIP’s receivable 
balance at the end of 2004 (or approximately $254,000).  Nonetheless, the audit team did not  
perform additional audit procedures to understand the nature or purpose of these related party 
transactions as required under the Auditing Standards.  Although BLC’s audit program required  
certain procedures to be performed with respect to accounts receivable and related party 
transactions, the steps were either documented as “done,” without any supporting evidence, or “not 
considered necessary” in BLC’s audit program.  These same transactions were found to be 
fictitious and were reversed when VoIP restated its 2004 financial statements.  
                 
               Lago Did Not Obtain Adequate Work Paper Documentation  
 
               h.      The Auditing Standards require that the auditors’ work papers clearly 
demonstrate the work that was, in fact, performed.  They must also contain sufficient information 
to enable an experienced auditor, having no previous connection to the engagement, to: (1) 
understand the nature, timing, extent, and results  of the procedures performed, evidence obtained, 
and conclusions reached and (2) determine who performed the work and the date such work was 
completed, as well as the person who reviewed the work and the date of such review.  
                
               i.     Certain documentation of substantive procedures in many of the BLC audit  
work papers was inadequate, with little evidence of analysis, tests performed, or information 
obtained.  In numerous instances, the work paper documentation simply consisted of the auditor  
initialing or stating “done” on the audit program, without further explanation or supporting work 
papers.  By not directing the BLC audit team to get, and to confirm that they obtained, the 
appropriate documentation, Lago violated the Auditing Standards.  This also impeded BLC’s 
ability to adequately test and determine whether VoIP’s financial statements were prepared in 
conformity with GAAP.   
 
               Lago Did Not Adequately Supervise the 2004 Audit  
 
               j.     The Auditing Standards require that audits be adequately staffed and audit 
assistants be properly supervised, and that the auditor with final responsibility (generally, the audit 
partner) assign tasks to, and supervise, any assistants.  As noted above, the Auditing Standards 
relating to documentation also require that work papers contain enough information to be able to 
determine the person who reviewed the work and the date of such review. 
 
               k.     Lago, as engagement partner, was  responsible for ensuring that the 2004 
VoIP audit was properly staffed and supervised.  He was also responsible for reviewing the work 
of the senior member of the audit staff.   However, certain of the  audit work papers prepared by the 
senior staff, including planning areas and areas considered to be high risk such as accounts 
receivable and revenue, were not reviewed.  This constituted a violation of the Auditing Standards 
and added to the audit team’s inability to respond to “red flags” and other significant matters 
identified during the VoIP audit.   

                                                5
  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

        
       3.       Violations  
 
              a.      Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides that the Commission may temporarily or 
permanently deny an accountant the privilege of appearing or practicing before it if it finds, after 
notice and opportunity for hearing, that the accountant engaged in “improper professional 
conduct.” Such improper professional conduct includes, as applicable here, negligent conduct, 
defined as “repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of  
applicable professional standards that indicate a lack of competence to practice before the 
Commission.” Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(A)-(B).  
               
              b.      Lago failed (i) to exercise due professional care in the planning and 
performance of the audit, Auditing Standards § AU 230, (ii) to properly plan and supervise the 
audit, Auditing Standards §AU 311, (iii) to appropriately consider fraud, risk and materiality in 
conducting the audit, Auditing Standards § AU 312 and § AU 316, (iv) to obtain sufficient 
competent evidential matter to afford a reasonable basis for the opinion rendered, Auditing 
Standards §AU 326, (v) to appropriately consider related parties, Auditing Standards § AU 334, 
and (vi) failed to adequately prepare audit documentation, Auditing Standards No. 3. As a result 
of the actions detailed above, Lago engaged in improper professional conduct with respect to 
BLC’s audit of VoIP’s 2004 financial statements. 
 
                   4. Findings  
 
               a.     Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that   Lago engaged in 
improper professional conduct pursuant to Rule  102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice. 
 
                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Lago’s Offer.  
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
       A.      Lago is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
  
       B.      After one year from the date of this Order, Respondent may request that the  
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the  
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                                1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 

                                                6
  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
      
                2.       an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                            (a)  Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 
and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                         (b)     Respondent, or the registered      public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB and that inspection did not identify any 
criticisms of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that 
would indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                 (c)             Respondent has resolved all di     sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the PCAOB (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                         (d)     Respondent acknowledges        his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the PCAOB, including, but not limited to, 
all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
control standards. 
      
                    C. The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume  
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                             M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                      

                                                      7
  
