---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                   STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                             the 

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  51927 / June 27, 2005 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2266 / June 27, 2005 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-11966 
                                               
                                                : 
                                              :        
                                              :         
       In the Matter of                       :       ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                              :       PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
     DAVID S. KLARMAN, ESQ.,                  :       102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                              :       PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
               Respondent.                    :       IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                         : 
                                                         : 
____________________________________ :                  
                                                       
                                                   
                                                 I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against David 
S. Klarman (“Respondent” or “Klarman”) pursuant  to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules  
of Practice.1 
               
                                                   
                                                 II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
                                                 
1 
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest  and without preliminary hearing, may, by order, . . .  
suspend from appearing or practicing before it any attorney . . . who has been by name . . . permanently enjoined by       
any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission,                                                 
from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and    
regulations thereunder.  
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.2. below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
        
                          1. Klarman was admitted to practice law in the State of New York in 1991.  
He was admitted to practice law in the State of California in 1997, and in 2003 was suspended 
from practice for failing to pay bar dues.  Klarman was formerly Vice President, General Counsel, 
and Secretary of U.S. Wireless Corporation (“USW”), a company whose common stock was 
registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Exchange Act”) and which filed periodic reports with the Commission. 
        
       2.          On June 23, 2005, a final judg ment was entered against Klarman pursuant to his 
written consent, permanently enjoining him from future violations of Section 17(a) of the 
Securities Act of 1933, Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 13b2-
1, and 13b2-2 thereunder, and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of 
the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder, in the civil action entitled 
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Oliver Hilsenrath and David S. Klarman, Civil Action 
Number C-03-3252-WHA, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of 
California.  The judgment also provided that Klarman is prohibited for 10 years from acting as 
an officer or director of any issuer that has a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 
of the Exchange Act or that is required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange 
Act.  The judgment further provided that Klarman is liable for disgorgement plus prejudgment 
interest of $3,862,929, and that the amount of any civil penalties will be determined at a later 
hearing. 
 
               3.     The Commission’s complaint allege   s, among other things, as follows:  
From August 1997 to January 2000, Klarman and another USW officer, Oliver Hilsenrath 
(“Hilsenrath”), had USW transfer common stock worth approximately $3.2 million and cash 
totaling approximately $428,000 to several offshore entities that they secretly owned and 
controlled.  The transfers were part of a scheme by Hilsenrath and Klarman to extract assets from  
USW without providing any consideration in return.  Under the direction of Hilsenrath and 
Klarman, the cash and stock transfers were originally recorded in USW’s books and financial 
statements as compensation for services or as the sale of stock for valid consideration.  In early 
2001, USW’s Board of Directors received information challenging the validity of the transfers.  
Once the unauthorized and illegal character of the transfers was recognized, USW restated its 
financial results for fiscal 2000 to increase its annual net loss from $11.4 million to $17.7 

                                                2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

million, or by 35%.  In essence, USW treated the improper cash and stock transfers as the 
embezzlement of company assets by Hilsenrath and Klarman.   
 
                                                                 IV. 
                                                                    
          In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Klarman’s Offer.  
 
          Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
          Klarman is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an attorney.   
  
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Jonathan                                                                        G. Katz
       Secretary                                                                      

                                                                  3
  
