---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED                              STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                       the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 51373 / March 15, 2005 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2210 / March 15, 2005 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-11853 
 
                                                
In the Matter of                              ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
                                              PROCEEDINGS, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
Mark A. Schumacher,                           IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
                                              PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF THE 
Respondent.                                   SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
 
 
  
                                           I. 

              The Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission") deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act"), against Mark A. Schumacher ("Schumacher" or 
"Respondent").1
                 

                                           II. 

              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the "Offer") which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission's jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to 
Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Order"), as set forth below.   

                                                 
1
 This matter is related to a civil action, Securities and Exchange Commission v. Mark A. 
Schumacher, Civ. Action No. 05-N-483 (OES)(USDC D. Colorado), filed on March 15, 2005, in 
which Schumacher has consented to pay a $40,000 civil penalty. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              III. 

              On the basis of this Order and Respondent's Offer, the Commission finds2
                                                                                that:  

A.     Respondent 

       Schumacher, age 46, of Littleton, Colorado, was controller of Qwest Communications 
International Inc. ("Qwest") from January 2001 through December 2001.  Prior to working for 
Qwest, Schumacher worked for 17 years in various positions at US West, Inc., which was acquired 
by Qwest in 2000.  Schumacher is licensed as a certified public accountant in Colorado. 

B.     Related Party 

       Qwest, based in Denver, Colorado, is one of the largest telecommunications and Internet 
services companies in the United States.  Qwest’s common stock is registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act, and the company is obligated to file 
reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q.  Qwest’s common stock is traded on the New York Stock 
Exchange. 

C.     Qwest’s Improper Accounting for Indefeasible Rights of Use (“IRUs”) Transactions 

       1.           During 2001 and earlier, Qwest emphasized in Commission filings and in public 
statements its projected revenues and earnings growth, and issued aggressive growth and revenue 
targets to the investment community.  In turn, Qwest’s most senior executives, including 
Schumacher’s superiors, placed extraordinary pressure throughout the company to meet or exceed 
the publicly announced revenue targets.  Qwest could not, however, meet its targets through 
recurring revenue generating transactions.  The lack of recurring revenue created a gap between 
Qwest’s publicly stated revenue targets and actual revenue.   

       2.           To make up for the shortfall between Qwest’s actual revenue and its projected 
revenue targets, Qwest relied on one-time sales of portions of its network in the form of IRUs.3
                                                                                              
Qwest accounted for IRUs as sales-type leases, and recognized revenue immediately upon 
purported delivery and acceptance of the capacity. 

       3.           Dating back to at least 1999, Qwest’s accounting department did not maintain 
proper accounting policies, procedures, and practices relating to IRU revenue recognition generally 
and immediate revenue recognition on IRUs in particular.  In fact, Qwest’s IRU revenue 
recognition policy failed to meet several GAAP criteria and Qwest improperly recognized 
approximately $1 billion in IRU revenue during fiscal year 2001.  Upon assuming the position of 
                                                 
2
  The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

 
3
  An IRU is an irrevocable right to use specific fiber optic cable or fiber capacity for a specified 
time period.  

                                               2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

controller in January 2001, Schumacher inherited the flawed system of accounting procedures and 
controls relating to IRUs.  After becoming aware of errors and inconsistencies in Qwest’s IRU 
revenue recognition policies and procedures, Schumacher took several significant steps to correct 
Qwest’s IRU accounting practices and policies.  Despite these steps, Schumacher was unsuccessful 
in ensuring that Qwest’s IRU accounting met the immediate revenue recognition criteria under 
GAAP, and did not confirm that Qwest had an adequate system of internal controls and procedures 
concerning its IRU accounting.    

        4.         In 2001, Schumacher learned information that suggested Qwest’s upfront revenue 
recognition on IRUs was not in compliance with GAAP.  He learned that Qwest allowed customers 
to return the assets purchased in exchange for different assets, and he became concerned with 
Qwest’s ability to pass title, the fair market value of IRUs, the failure to identify IRU inventory, 
and the business purpose of IRU sales.  Had Schumacher independently examined Qwest’s 
established accounting policies and practices for IRUs after learning of these red flags, he would 
have determined that Qwest’s revenue recognition on IRU sales was not in accordance with 
GAAP.   

       5.           Qwest's improper accounting for IRUs resulted in material misstatements of the 
company's revenues, income and earnings per share in, among others, Qwest's quarterly reports 
filed with the Commission on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, June 30 and September 
30, 2001 and earnings releases attached to Qwest's current reports on Form 8-K filed with the 
Commission for the same quarters in 2001.  Schumacher, along with others, was responsible for 
the content of the quarterly reports and he reviewed them prior to their filing with the Commission.  
He also reviewed the earnings releases filed with the Commission in Qwest's Forms 8-K for the 
same periods and reviewed the Forms 8-K before they were filed wi th the Commission.   

D.     Qwest’s Improper Disclosures Relating to Dex 

              1.           In an attempt to show revenue and earnings growth every quarter sufficient to meet 
publicly announced revenue projections, Qwest accelerated the recognition of revenue from Dex 
for 2000 by publishing one directory in December 2000 rather than in January 2001, as originally 
scheduled.  This allowed Qwest to recognize an additional $28 million of Dex revenue in 2000.  
Qwest's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000 stated that Dex's revenue in 2000 
increased by nearly $100 million over the previous year due to "an increase in the number of 
directories published."  This statement was misleading because it failed to inform investors that 
more than one-quarter of the revenue increase was due to the fact that one directory had been 
published twice in 2000, and that the schedule change would produce a commensurate decline in 
Dex revenue for the first quarter of 2001. 

              2.           Schumacher should have known that Qwest's disclosures concerning its Dex 
revenues were misleading.  He reviewed Qwest’s 2000 Form 10-K before it was filed with the 
Commission.  At the same time, he should have known that the directory schedule change 
accounted for more than one-quarter of the $100 million revenue increase mentioned in that report. 

              3.           Additionally, in the first three quarters of 2001, Qwest shortened the lives of some 
directories, thereby allowing it to recognize revenue in earlier quarters, and lengthened the lives of 
                                               3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

other directories from twelve months to thirteen months, thereby allowing the company to bill each 
advertiser for one additional month of advertising fees.  This allowed Qwest to recognize an 
additional $42 million in revenue in 2001.  Qwest's Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 
June 30 and September 30, 2001 stated that period-over-period changes in Dex's revenue were 
attributable to changes in the "mix" and/or "lengths" of directories published.  These statements 
were misleading, because they failed to inform investors that Qwest had manipulated its directory 
publishing schedule to meet financial targets. 

       4.           Schumacher reviewed Qwest's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 
2000 and Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2001, and 
should have known that the disclosures concerning the Dex revenue were misleading.  

E.     Violations

       1.           Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rules 13a-1, 13a-11 and  
13a-13 require all issuers with securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act to file 
annual, current, and quarterly reports with the Commission on Forms 10-K, 8-K and 10-Q, 
respectively.  These reporting requirements necessarily include the requirement that the issuer 
supply accurate information.  In addition, Rule 12b-20 requires that reports contain such further 
material information as may be necessary to make the required statements, in light of the 
circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  As a result of the conduct described 
above, Qwest violated, and Schumacher was a cause of Qwest’s violations of, Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder, with respect to Qwest's 
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000; Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 
June 30 and September 30, 2001; and Forms 8-K to which Qwest's earnings releases for the first 
three quarters of 2001 were attached. 

              2.           As a result of the conduct described above, Qwest violated, and Schumacher caused 
Qwest's violations of, Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, which requires reporting 
companies to make and keep books, records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately 
and fairly reflect their transactions and dispositions of their assets, and Section 13(b)(2)(B), which 
requires  reporting companies to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls 
sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP.   

       3.           Also as a result of the conduct described above, Schumacher violated Section 
13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act, which prohibits persons from knowingly circumventing or 
knowingly failing to implement a system of internal accounting controls, or knowingly falsifying 
any book, record or account; and Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1, which prohibits persons from 
directly or indirectly falsifying or causing to be falsified any book, record, or account subject to 
Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act.  

                                  Respondent’s Cooperation 
    
              In determining to accept his Offer, the Commission considered Respondent's cooperation 
afforded the Commission staff. 
                                               4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 
 
                                             Undertakings 
     
              In connection with this action and any related judicial or administrative proceeding or 
investigation commenced by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent 
undertakes to cooperate with the Commission staff and:  (i) agrees to appear and be interviewed 
by Commission staff at such times and places as the staff requests upon reasonable notice; (ii) will 
accept service by mail or facsimile transmission of notices or subpoenas issued by the Commission 
for documents or testimony at depositions, hearings, or trials, or in connection with any related 
investigation by Commission staff; (iii) appoints Respondent’s attorney as agent to receive service 
of such notices and subpoenas; (iv) with respect to such notices and subpoenas, waives the 
territorial limits on service contained in Rule 45 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and any 
applicable local rules, provided that the party requesting the testimony reimburses Respondent’s 
travel, lodging, and subsistence expenses at the then-prevailing U.S. Government per diem rates; 
and (v) consents to personal jurisdiction over Respondent in any United States District Court for 
purposes of enforcing any such subpoena. 
     
              In determining whether to accept the Offer, the Commission has considered these 
undertakings.   

                                                    IV. 

        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Schumacher's Offer. 

        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that Respondent Schumacher cease and desist from 
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange 
Act and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder, and from causing any violations and any future violations of 
Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, 
and 13a-13 thereunder. 

  
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Jonathan G. Katz 
       Secretary 

                                                     5 
