---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                              STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                        the 

                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 51606 / April 26, 2005 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2237 / April 26, 2005 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-11910 
                                                    
In the Matter of                              ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC  
                                              ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP                         PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                              COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
Respondent                                    MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                              REMEDIAL SANCTIONS  
  
                                            I.  
  
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii)1
                                                                                of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice against Deloitte & Touche LLP (“Deloitte”). 
 
 
                                           II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (“Offer”) that the Commission has determined to accept.2
                                                                  Solely for the purpose of  
these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 

                                                 
1	 
      Rule 102(e)(1) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
      The Commission may censure a person or deny, temporarily or permanently, the 
      privilege of appearing or practicing before it in any way to any person who is found . . . 
      (ii) . . . 	to have engaged in . . . improper professional conduct.  
       
2	 
      Simultaneously with this proceeding the Commission has filed a settled action SEC v. 
      Deloitte & Touche LLP, 05 Civ 4119 (S.D.N.Y), in which Deloitte consented to the entry 
      of a judgment by the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, 
      pursuant to Section 21(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), 
      ordering Deloitte to pay a $25 million civil penalty. 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these proceedings, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 
102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial  
Sanctions  (“Order”), as set forth below. 
        
                                                  III. 
        
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds3
                                                                                that: 
        
A. RESPONDENT AND OT              HER RELEVANT ENTITIES 
 
       Deloitte & Touche LLP is a Delaware limited liability partnership that is headquartered in 
New York City.  As of October 22, 2003, Deloitte was registered with the Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board, pursuant to Section 102 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, to  
prepare and issue audit reports on U.S. public companies.   Deloitte served  as the independent 
auditor for Adelphia Communications Corporation (“Adelphia”) from at least 1986, the year when 
Adelphia’s securities became publicly traded, until May 14, 2002, when Deloitte suspended its 
work on the audit for the year-ended December 31, 2001, citing, among other concerns, that 
Adelphia’s books and records had been falsified.  Starting in 1993, and until the audit was 
suspended in 2002, Deloitte serviced the Adelphia account through its Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
office (the “Pittsburgh Office”). Adelphia was one of the Pittsburgh Office’s largest clients.  In  
addition, Adelphia was deemed by the Pittsburgh Office to have “much greater than normal audit 
risk.”  Deloitte’s engagement team included a Lead Client Service Partner (the “Engagement  
Partner”), a concurring review partner (the “Concurring Partner”) and a Special Review Partner. 
  
       Adelphia Communications Corporation, a Delaware corporation that was headquartered in 
Coudersport, Pennsylvania, is the sixth largest cable television operator in the United States and, 
through numerous consolidated subsidiaries, provides cable television and local telephone service  
to customers in twenty-nine states and Puerto Rico.  Prior to June 3, 2002, Adelphia’s Class A 
shares were listed on the NASDAQ’s National Market, while the Company’s Class B shares were  
never publicly traded.  Citing public interest concerns and Adelphia’s failure to comply with  
NASDAQ Rule 431(c)(14), which requires an issuer, among other things, to timely file its Form  
10-K, a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel de-listed Adelphia stock, effective June 3, 2002.  
Adelphia shares are now quoted by Pink Sheets, LLC.  On July 24, 2002, the Commission filed 
SEC v. Adelphia Communications Corporation, et al., 02 Civ. 5776 (S.D.N.Y.) (PKC) (“SEC v. 
Adelphia”), alleging that Adelphia and six senior officers, including four members of the Rigas 
family, had engaged, between at least 1998 and March 2002, in widespread financial fraud and 
reporting violations.  That action is pending.  Since June 25, 2002, Adelphia and its subsidiaries 
have operated under the protection of Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. 
        

                                                 
3 
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer and are not binding on any 
       other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   
 
                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       The Rigases include John Rigas (J. Rigas), his sons, Timothy J. Rigas (“T. Rigas”),  
Michael J. Rigas (“M. Rigas”) and James P. Rigas (“J.P. Rigas”), his daughter, Ellen Rigas Venetis 
(“E. Rigas”) and his spouse, Doris Nielsen Rigas (“D. Rigas”).  At all relevant times, J. Rigas and 
members of his immediate family  held five of Adelphia’s nine Board of Directors positions, and 
exercised voting control of Adelphia stock.  Specifically, J. Rigas was Adelphia’s Chief Executive 
Officer and Chairman of its Board of Directors.  T. Rigas, M. Rigas, and J.P. Rigas each were 
directors of Adelphia and held the positions, respectively, of Chief Financial and Accounting 
Officer, Executive Vice President for Operations, and Executive Vice President for Strategic 
Planning.  J. Rigas and T. Rigas were convicted, in                         US v. John J. Rigas, et al., 02 Crim. 1236 
(S.D.N.Y.)(LBS), of a total of eighteen counts of securities fraud, bank fraud and conspiracy to 
commit securities fraud, bank fraud, and making or causing to be made false statements in 
Commission filings.   
 
       Rigas Entities consist of approximately 63 various partnerships, corporations, or limited 
liability companies exclusively owned or controlled by members of the Rigas family. While 
approximately fourteen of the Rigas Entities were engaged in the ownership and operation of cable 
television systems and other related ventures (the “Rigas Cable Entities”), the balance, or 
approximately forty-nine of the Rigas Entities, were involved in businesses completely unrelated to 
cable television (the “Rigas Non-Cable Entities”), including, but not limited to, Christmas tree 
farming, interior design, furniture retailing, honey cultivation and sales, ownership of a National 
Hockey League team franchise, venture capital, residential and commercial landscaping, and film  
production by E. Rigas.  Adelphia managed and maintained virtually every aspect of the Rigas 
Cable Entities, including maintaining their books and records on a general ledger system shared 
with Adelphia and its subsidiaries.  Adelphia and the Rigas Entities, participated jointly in a cash 
management system (“CMS”) operated by Adelphia.  This resulted in the commingling of funds 
among the Adelphia CMS participants, including Adelphia subsidiaries and Rigas Entities.  As 
detailed below, the sharing by Adelphia and the Rigas Entities of the same management, general 
ledger system, and cash management system greatly facilitated the fraud at Adelphia.  
 
       The Co-Borrowing Credit Facilities:   Since at least 1996, Adelphia negotiated and 
established various commercial loans, credit facilities, and other credit arrangements for its benefit 
and the benefit of the Rigas Cable Entities.  Among these credit facilities were four facilities, dated 
respectively, March 29, 1996, May 6, 1999, April 14, 2000, and September 28, 2001, in which 
certain subsidiaries of Adelphia became co-borrowers with certain Rigas Cable Entities (the “Rigas 
Co-Borrowers”).  Under the terms of these credit facilities (the “Co-Borrowing Credit Facilities”) 
the co-borrowers under each Facility constituted a  “borrowing group” for that Facility and, as a 
group, prepared and submitted annually to the lending banks audited combined financial 
statements, including a balance sheet and an income statement.  From December 31, 1996 through 
at least December 31, 2000, Deloitte audited the annual financial statements of each borrowing 
group and, in each instance, issued an audit report containing an unqualified opinion on those 
financial statements.  Also, under the terms of the Co-Borrowing Credit Facilities, each co-
borrower had the ability to borrow up to the entire amount of the available credit under the 
applicable Facility and was jointly and severally liable for the entire outstanding balance under that 
Facility. 
        

                                                3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
B. SUMMARY 
 
       This case concerns a critically flawed audit by Deloitte.  Deloitte did not act in accordance 
with Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (“GAAS”) and it failed to detect a massive fraud 
perpetrated by Adelphia and the Rigases.  From at least 1998 through March 2002, at the direction 
of senior management, Adelphia transferred billions of dollars of liabilities to off-balance sheet 
affiliates, inflated earnings to meet Wall Street’s expectations, falsified operational statistics, and 
concealed varied instances of blatant self-dealing by the Rigases. On March 27, 2002, Adelphia 
revealed that it was jointly and severally liable for approximately $2.3 billion (as of December 31, 
2001) of bank loans incurred by the Rigas Entities.  Revelations of further fraud followed:  in 
addition to understating co-borrowing debt on its balance sheet, Adelphia had also overstated its 
operational and financial performance and concealed rampant self-dealing by the Rigases.  As the 
fraud became known, Adelphia’s share price plummeted, erasing as much as $8 billion of 
shareholder value. 
 
       Deloitte served as Adelphia’s independent auditor during the course of the misconduct and 
each year issued audit reports containing unqualified opinions  on Adelphia’s annual financial 
statements filed with the Commission on Form 10-K.  Adelphia’s Form 10-K for the 2000 fiscal 
year (the “Relevant Period”) contained significant material misstatements.  In its Form 10-K for 
2000, Adelphia understated its subsidiary debt by $1.6 billion, overstated equity by at least $368 
million, and improperly netted related party receivables and payables between Adelphia and the 
Rigas Entities.  Adelphia further failed to disclose the nature and extent of related party 
transactions between Adelphia and the Rigases.  The Deloitte engagement team’s failure to object 
to these particular misstatements permitted Adelphia to engage in certain accounting practices that 
departed from Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”).  Accordingly, Deloitte 
caused Adelphia’s violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act  
and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder.  
        
C.          FACTS 
 
Deloitte’s Risk Management Program  
 
       During the Relevant Period, Deloitte had a Risk Management Program for clients deemed 
to have “much greater than normal” audit risk.  This program was not required by GAAS but was 
instead established by Deloitte for the purpose of better managing risks inherent in its audits of  
certain higher risk clients.  According to Deloitte’s Accounting and Audit Procedures Manual 
(“AAPMS”), in effect during the Relevant Period, a client’s level of audit risk represented a 
measure of the possibility that fraudulent financial reporting or misappropriation of assets might 
have occurred at a client during the period being audited.  Under the Risk Management Program  
guidance issued to Deloitte personnel, a Deloitte partner designated as a Special Review Partner 
was to provide an additional level of consultation and review beyond that provided by the 
engagement team.  This Special Review Partner’s  duties included (i) discussing specific risk areas  
and plans to respond to them; (ii) consulting with the engagement and concurring partners; (iii) 
reviewing the audit workpapers concerning risk areas of the engagement; and (iv) reviewing the 

                                               4
  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

financial statements and Deloitte’s audit report with an emphasis on the identification of specific 
risk areas as well as the adequacy of the audit report and disclosures regarding these risk areas.  At  
the end of an engagement, the Special Review Partner was to complete a memorandum to 
Deloitte’s National Office confirming that he had completed his duties as Special Review Partner 
and assessing whether adequate attention and resources had been dedicated to the management of 
the risks of the engagement. 
 
Deloitte Recognized that Adelphia Was Among Its Highest Risk Clients 
 
       As part of its annual audit planning process, Deloitte assessed the level of Adelphia’s audit 
risk.  From at least 1998, Deloitte concluded that Adelphia presented “much greater than normal” 
audit risk, which was the highest level of risk that Deloitte could assign to any client under 
guidelines set forth in the AAPMS.  In reaching this conclusion, Deloitte identified a number of 
what it called “pervasive risk factors” posed by the Adelphia audit as a whole and “specific risks” 
associated with particular account balances examined during the audit.  This risk assessment was 
reviewed by the Special Review Partner, who, in this case, had National Office clearing authority.  
Many of the pervasive risk factors and the specific risks were directly associated with Adelphia’s 
extensive relationship with the Rigases and Rigas Entities, as well as its heavy reliance on debt and 
equity funding for its operating and capital needs.  Among the pervasive risk factors identified by 
Deloitte in 2000 were: 
 
       •	       Management is dominated by one strong personality or concentrated in a small 
               group without compensating controls.  
        
       •	       Management appears willing to accept unusually high levels of risk. 
        
       •	       Management tends to interpret accounting standards aggressively. 
        
       •	       The organizational [and/or reporting] structures are unduly complex. 
        
       •	       There is substantial debt from unusual sources (e.g., related parties) or on unusual 
               terms. 
        
       •	       There are significant affiliated entities or other related parties that we will not audit 
               and with whom significant transactions might have occurred. 
        
       •	       [Adelphia] engages in unique, highly complex and material transactions that pose 
               difficult “substance over form” questions. 
        
       •	       [Adelphia] is under significant pressure to obtain additional capital necessary to 
               stay competitive, and is growing and is near the limit of its financial resources. 
        
       •	       There have been frequent disputes with Deloitte . . . on accounting, auditing, or  
               reporting matters. 
        
                                                5
  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 
       Deloitte further identified “specific risks” including “numerous related party transactions” 
and observed that because “[Adelphia and its subsidiaries] are highly leveraged, compliance with 
debt covenants is critical to the operations of these entities.”  Deloitte considered these “specific 
risks” as affecting, among others, Adelphia’s account balances for “notes payable, long term debt 
and interest” and “cash.”  The “specific risks” identified for the 2000 Audit were communicated to 
Deloitte’s National Office.   
   
       Despite Adelphia’s risk level, Deloitte failed to tailor an audit approach that adequately 
responded to the risks identified in Deloitte’s audit planning. Moreover, Deloitte did not 
implement appropriate follow-up procedures to make sure not only  that the audit testing and 
fieldwork used in the audit mitigated Adelphia’s audit risk, but also that the quality control 
protections intended to be provided by the presence of both Concurring and Special Review 
Partners actually functioned as those controls were designed to work in the circumstances of a high 
risk client audit. 
 
Deloitte Failed to Ensure that Adelphia’s Disclosure of its Liabilities Was Proper 
 
       Under the terms of the Co-Borrowing Credit Facilities, Adelphia and the Rigas Co-
Borrowers each contributed various assets as collateral for the extension of credit.  While it 
appears that the Rigas Co-Borrowers contributed approximately 66% of the total collateral 
underlying the 1996 Co-Borrowing Credit Facility, in 1999 to 2001, the Rigas Co-Borrowers 
contributed significantly less collateral – 19% in 1999 and 4% in both 2000 and 2001.  The 
balance of the collateral was contributed by Adelphia subsidiaries.  During the Relevant Period, 
Deloitte audited the annual financial statements of each borrowing group and in each instance 
issued an audit report containing an unqualified opinion on those financial statements.  As of 
December 31, 2000, the total borrowing capacity under the three Co-Borrowing Credit Facilities 
then in existence was $3.751 billion. 
 
       As of December 31, 2000, the Co-Borrowing Credit Facilities were completely drawn- 
down.  Of the $3.751 billion outstanding, approximately $1.6 billion of Co-Borrowing debt was 
improperly excluded from Adelphia’s balance sheet for the year-ended 2000 as an Adelphia 
liability.  Moreover, Adelphia’s 2000 Form 10-K included a footnote disclosure that was at best 
ambiguous and was misleading in that it suggested that all of the debt for which Adelphia was 
liable, including the $1.6 billion owed by the Rigas Co-Borrowers, was properly reflected on 
Adelphia’s balance sheet.  This amount represented over 28% of Adelphia’s reported bank debt 
and nearly 10% of Adelphia’s reported total liabilities.   
            
       Adelphia’s rationale to Deloitte for excluding $1.6 billion in debt from its balance sheet 
was that it was a mere “guarantor” of the Rigas Co-Borrowers, and therefore did not have to 
reflect such debt as a liability on its balance sheet.  Adelphia, however, provided Deloitte’s 
engagement team copies of the agreements underlying the Co-Borrowing Credit Facilities, which 
revealed that Adelphia was jointly and severally liable for the full amount of such debt.  
Deloitte’s engagement team faile d to recognize this discrepancy or to take steps to understand 
the impact of joint and several liability.    

                                                6
  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

            
       Even under Adelphia’s characterization of the debt as a “guarantee,” Deloitte’s 
engagement team knew or should have known that Adelphia did not perform the assessments 
required under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5 (“FAS 5”)  to determine if its 
potential contingency for the amount of co-borrowing debt that it excluded from its balance sheet 
was “probable” or even “reasonably possible” under FAS 5 and would have had to be disclosed.   4 
                                                                                                  
Indeed, other than a cursory calculation not documented in the workpapers, Deloitte did nothing 
to determine whether the Rigas Entities had the financial wherewithal to repay the debt.  In any 
event, Deloitte should have known that Adelphia had an obligation to disclose this debt even if it 
determined that its loss contingency was “remote.”  
 
       In addition, during the 2000 Audit, Deloitte repeatedly proposed disclosure of the full 
amount of the Co-Borrowing debt.  Deloitte inserted more explicit disclosure, including the 
amount of Rigas Co-Borrowing debt, in at least six drafts of Adelphia’s 2000 Form 10-K.  But 
when Adelphia’s management resisted, Deloitte abandoned its attempts to make the disclosure 
more accurate. 
 
       Deloitte knew or should have known that Adelphia’s failure to include all Co-Borrowing 
debt on its balance sheet, or to otherwise disclose that a portion had been excluded, did not 
conform to GAAP. 
 
Deloitte Knew or Should Have Known That the $1.6 Billion Was Adelphia’s Liability and 
Should Have Been Reflected in its Financial Statements 
 
       Adelphia’s exclusion of Co-Borrowing debt from its balance sheet was also improper 
because virtually all of the Co-Borrowing debt excluded was in fact Adelphia’s liability that had 
been improperly shifted from Adelphia’s books to the books of the Rigas Co-Borrowers.  
Adelphia excluded Co-Borrowing debt from its balance sheet in a number of ways.  It: (i) 
“reclassified” some debt to the books of the Rigas Co-Borrowers through the use of sham journal 
entries, (ii)  improperly transferred debt in connection with direct placements of Adelphia 

                                                 
4 
        FAS 5 requires a company to include a contingent amount in its financial statements when 
        that contingency is “probable.”  Paragraphs 10 and 11 of FAS 5 provide guidance on when 
        a contingency needs only to be disclosed by a company in footnotes to its financial 
        statements.  Paragraph 10 provides, in pertinent part, that:  “[d]isclosure of the 
        contingency shall be made when there is at least a reasonable possibility that a loss or an  
        additional loss may have been incurred . . .”  [Emphasis added].  Under these principles, 
        even if a loss contingency does not meet the threshold for inclusion in a company’s 
        financial statements, disclosure of the contingency is still required where there is a 
        reasonable possibility of having to incur a liability under the contingency.  Paragraph 12 
        of FAS 5 goes further and states that when a contingency is a guarantee of indebtedness of 
        others—which Adelphia claimed the Rigas  Co-Borrowing debt was—a company should 
        nevertheless disclose the nature and amount of the guarantee even if the guarantee is 
        assessed as “remote.”   
 
                                               7
  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

securities to the Rigases (approximately $513 million in 2000); and (iii) recorded debt only on 
the books of the Rigas Co-Borrowers without appropriate extinguishment of Adelphia’s liability, 
even though Adelphia remained ultimately liable for such debt. 
 
       Adelphia’s practice of reclassifying or otherwise transferring Co-Borrowing debt from its 
books was improper.  This practice had the effect of transforming Adelphia’s Co-Borrowing debt 
into affiliate payables.  This in turn reduced Adelphia’s disclosed Co-Borrowing debt and created 
a means for Adelphia to conceal its ever-growing balance of affiliate receivables from Rigas 
Entities and individual Rigases.  These affiliate receivables were the result of the Rigases’ 
fraudulent draining of Adelphia’s cash and other resources.  By netting the fake affiliate payables  
against the affiliate receivables, Adelphia hid the existence of these receivables from investors, 
and reduced the amount of Co-Borrowing debt recorded on its books and records, thereby 
facilitating Adelphia’s access to the capital markets.  
 
       Adelphia’s practice of drawing down co-borrowing funds into an Adelphia bank account 
but recording debt on the books of the Rigas Co-Borrowers was equally improper.  Such 
practices did not conform to GAAP, which requires that certain requirements be met before a 
liability can be extinguished.  Deloitte knew or should have known that this practice was a 
violation of GAAP. 5 
                      
 
       Deloitte failed to recognize numerous red flags that indicated the existence of fraudulent 
entries throughout Adelphia’s general ledger.  For example, the general ledger included millions 
of dollars in payments to individual Rigases, a cost center for Doris Rigas’s design company, and 
a $375 million receivable from a Rigas entity that had purchased Adelphia stock in a direct 
placement.  If Deloitte had conducted a more careful review of the relationship between the 
payables and receivables, it would have been able to determine that a large portion of the 
subsidiary debt should have remained on Adelphia’s books.  The result of Adelphia’s fraudulent 
conduct was that the Rigases were able to loot Adelphia at the expense of Adelphia’s 
shareholders and Adelphia was able to falsely represent that it was de-leveraging.  
 
        
Deloitte Improperly Failed to Object to Adelphia’s Netting of Related Party Payables and 
Receivables 
 
       Adelphia was required by Regulation S-X paragraphs 210.5-02.3 and 210.5.02.19 to report 
related party receivables and payables as gross numbers on its balance sheet.  Generally, and 
except in limited circumstances and in the absence of an explicit and legal right of offset, 

                                                 
5 
       Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 125 (FAS 125) required that once 
       Adelphia drew down on the Co-Borrowing Credit Facilities, it had to either pay off the 
       debt by the transfer of assets to the creditor or be legally released as primary obligor by 
       the creditor, neither of which occurred.  Attempting to “extinguish” debt by “assigning” it 
       to a related party is not sufficient—the creditor must be paid or must legally release the 
       borrower. (FAS 125 was superseded by FAS 140, effective March 31, 2001.)  
 
                                                8
  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

               Regulation S-X requires that certain information about related party receivables and payables be  
               disclosed on the balance sheet. 
 
                      The information that should appear on the face of the balance sheet or related notes and is  
               required in SEC filings  by Regulation S-X  as separately stated line items  (S-X at 210.05-02)   
               includes: (1) amounts receivable from related parties (S-X at 210.05-02.3(a)(2); and, (2) amounts   
               payable to related parties  (S-X at 210.05.02.19(a)(5).  In    addition, if the amounts due are not   
               current then Regulation S-X requires separate disclosure of "Indebtedness of related parties - not  
               current" (S-X at 210.05-02.11) and "Indebtedness to related parties - not current" (S-X at 210.05-
               02.23). 
                
                      Further, Accounting Research Bulletin 43, Chapter 1 at paragraph 5 states “Notes or 
               accounts receivable due from officers, employees, or affiliated companies must be shown 
               separately . . . .”  Accordingly, Adelphia was required both by GAAP and by Commission 
               regulations to report related party transactions with the Rigas Entities in a gross presentation. 
                
                      Adelphia improperly netted, or offset, related party payables and related party receivables 
               as of year-end, and presented only that net balance on its balance sheet in a line item called 
               “Related-party Receivables—Net.”  This practice did not conform to GAAP, obscured the extent 
               and magnitude of Rigas self-dealing and assisted Adelphia in creating the appearance of de-
               leveraging.  Paragraph 7 of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 10 (“APB 10”) states that “it  
               is a general principle of accounting that the offsetting of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet is 
               improper except where a right of setoff exists.”  Financial Accounting Standards Board 
               Interpretation No. 39 (“FIN 39”), in turn, defines a right of setoff as “a debtor’s legal right, by 
               contract or otherwise, to discharge all or a portion of the debt owed to another party by applying 
               against the debt an amount that the other party owes to the debtor.”  FIN 39 sets forth four 
               conditions that must be met for netting to be proper: 
                       
                              (a) 	Each of two parties owes the other determinable amounts;    
                              (b) 	The reporting party has the    right to set off the amount owed  
                                  with the amount owed by the other party;  
                              (c) 	The reporting party intends to set off; and 
                              (d) 	The right to set off is enforceable at law.   
                               
               (Emphasis in original) 
                       
                      Adelphia’s practice of netting was a fraudulent device used to conceal its liabilities.  No 
               agreements, written or otherwise, existed that established any legal right by Adelphia to setoff 
               amounts owed to it by the Rigas Entities or individual Rigases.  Adelphia netted unrelated non-
               mutual balances without any attempt to match affiliate receivables with affiliate payables to the  
               appropriate entities.  Deloitte’s failure to challenge Adelphia’s practice of netting and its issuance 
               of an audit report containing an unqualified opinion on the December 31, 2000 financial statements  
               permitted Adelphia to reflect a mere $3 million net receivable in its 2000 Form 10-K.  If Deloitte 
               had taken the appropriate action to correct Adelphia’s disclosure, however, Adelphia would have 
               had to report that, as of the year-ended December 31, 2000, Adelphia had gross related party 

                                                                9
  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

receivables of $1.3513 billion and gross related party payables of $1.348 billion, much more  
relevant numbers. 
 
Deloitte Failed to Object to Adelphia’s Overstatement of its Stockholders’ Equity   
 
       On January 24, 2000, a Rigas Entity acquired $368 million of Adelphia Class B shares, 
purportedly paid in immediately available funds.  In fact, the Rigas Entity paid nothing and 
Adelphia booked an affiliate receivable from that entity for the purchase price of the shares.  This 
receivable was never satisfied for cash but, along with other affiliate receivables, was netted 
against and reduced by the fake affiliate payables created by Adelphia’s reclassification.  Certain 
members of Deloitte’s engagement team were aware of a $375 million receivable ($7 million of  
which was actually paid) created in connection with this purchase.  Such a receivable created a 
stock subscription, which should have resulted in  Adelphia recording a $375 million contra-equity 
(a direct decrease to equity).  Instead, through its failure to object, Deloitte allowed Adelphia to 
overstate its stockholders’ equity by $368 million, thereby improving Adelphia’s overall financial 
picture.  
 
Deloitte Failed to Address Each Risk Factor Identified By its Risk Management Program 
 
       At the conclusion of the 2000 audit, notwithstanding that Deloitte had identified nine 
specific audit risks, Deloitte failed to do any meaningful assessment of whether those risks had 
been appropriately addressed.  Rather, Deloitte did a cursory review of the audit plan and the risk 
factors and decided, with no further analysis, that the risk factors had been adequately addressed.  
This failure to follow up on the enumerated risk factors resulted in Deloitte’s oversight of 
numerous red flags described above that indicated the existence of Adelphia’s fraud.  
        
Adelphia’s Violations  
 
       Section 13(a) and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 of the Exchange Act require issuers to file 
annual and quarterly reports with the Commission and to keep this information current.  Rule 12b-
20 requires disclosure of such additional information as may be necessary to make the required 
statements not misleading.  Implicit in these provisions is the requirement that the information 
reported be true, correct and complete.  See United States v. Bilzerian, 926 F.2d 1285, 1298 (2d 
Cir. 1991); SEC v. Savoy Indus., Inc., 587 F.2d 1149, 1165 (D.C. Cir. 1978). 
 
       As described above, Adelphia misstated its total liabilities, equity, and related party 
receivables in its 2000 Form 10-K.  Accordingly, Adelphia violated Section 13(a) of the Exchange 
Act and Rules 12b-20,  
                      13a-1 and 13a-13. 
 
       Adelphia also violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act by failing to make and 
keep books, records, and accounts that accurately, and in reasonable detail, reflected transactions  
and dispositions of its assets or liabilities.  In addition, Adelphia failed to devise and maintain a 
system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions 
were recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with 
GAAP, thereby violating Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act.  Adelphia’s internal controls  

                                               10
  
---------------------Page 11---------------------

were not sufficient to prevent the recording of numerous false journal entries, specifically the 
quarterly reclassification of debt, without proper basis or support.   
  
D. DELOITTE’S IMPROPER               PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT 
 
       By virtue of the conduct alleged above, Deloitte failed to conduct its audit of Adelphia’s 
2000 financial statements in accordance with GAAS.  Rather, Deloitte issued an audit report 
containing an unqualified opinion on Adelphia’s  2000 financial statements while it knew or should   
have known that Adelphia: (a) failed to record  all co-borrowing debt on its balance sheet or 
otherwise disclose that a portion had been excluded; (b) failed to disclose significant related party 
transactions by improperly netting related party payables and receivables; and (c) overstated its 
stockholders’ equity by $375 million.  Moreover, Deloitte failed to tailor an audit approach that 
adequately  responded to the risks identified in Deloitte’s planning of its audit of Adelphia’s 2000 
financial statements.  
 
       GAAS requires that auditors exercise due professional care in performing an audit and in 
preparing the audit report.  AU § 230.01.  Due professional care requires that the auditor exercise 
professional skepticism in performing audit procedures and gathering and analyzing audit evidence.  
AU § 230.07-.08.  “In exercising professional skepticism, the auditor should not be satisfied with  
less than persuasive evidence because of a belief that management is honest.” AU § 230.09.  
Moreover, GAAS requires that an auditor must obtain “sufficient competent evidential matter” to 
provide “a reasonable basis for forming an opinion.”  AU §326.22. 
 
       More specifically, when auditing a client identified to be at higher risk for material 
misstatement of the financial statements, GAAS makes clear that “the auditor should consider this 
conclusion in determining the nature, timing, or extent of procedures.”  AU §312.17.  GAAS 
further states that “[h]igher risk may cause the auditor to expand the extent of procedures applied, 
apply procedures closer to or as of year end, particularly in critical audit areas, or modify the nature  
of procedures to obtain more persuasive evidence.” Id.  GAAS also requires that professional 
skepticism increase with a higher level of risk assessment.  As set forth in paragraph 27 of SAS   
82, "examples demonstrating the application of professional skepticism in response to the 
auditor's assessment of the risk of material misstatement due to fraud include (a) increased 
sensitivity in the selection of the nature and extent of documentation to be examined in support 
of material transactions, and (b) increased recognition of the need to corroborate management 
explanations or representations concerning material matters —  such as further analytical 
procedures, examination of documentation, or discussion with others within or outside the 
entity."6 
          
 
       Deloitte departed from the applicable GAAS provisions cited above by failing to exercise 
due professional care and skepticism and obtain sufficient competent evidential matter; substituting 
management representations for competent evidence; failing to take appropriate action to correct 
Adelphia’s inconsistent and deficient disclosure; and issuing inaccurate audit reports.  

                                                 
6 
       SAS 82 has been superceded by SAS 99 (AU § 316.46) which became effective for 
       audits of financial statements for the periods beginning on or after December 15, 2002. 
                                               11
  
---------------------Page 12---------------------

 
 
 
       In addition to its departure from GAAS, Deloitte caused Adelphia’s violations of  Sections 
13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act.  Adelphia could not have filed its 
misleading 2000 Form 10-K without Deloitte’s audit report.  By failing to detect the fraud and 
issuing an audit report on Adelphia’s financial statements that incorporated the company's 
violations of GAAP, yet stating that such financial statements "presented fairly, in all material 
respects" Adelphia’s financial condition and results of operations, Deloitte caused Adelphia’s 
violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder.   
 
       As Adelphia’s auditor, and for the purpose of determining the extent of reliance that 
Deloitte’s engagement team could place in Adelphia’ systems, Deloitte evaluated Adelphia’s 
internal controls pursuant to GAAS. Deloitte made use of its knowledge of Adelphia’s internal 
controls in planning the scope, timing, and substance of the audit work. Deloitte knew or should            
have known that Adelphia’s books and records did not accurately reflect transactions (such as co-
borrowing debt, Rigas securities purchases and other related party transactions).  Further, Deloitte 
knew or should have known that Adelphia had significant flaws in its internal controls.   
Accordingly, by failing to recognize and object to the significant flaws in Adelphia’s books and 
records and internal controls, Deloitte caused Adelphia’s violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. 
 
  
E. FINDINGS         
 
       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Deloitte engaged in improper 
professional conduct in connection with the 2000 Adelphia audit pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of 
the Commission’s Rules of Practice by engaging  in repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, 
each resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of  
competence to practice before the Commission. 
 
F.     CERTAIN STEPS TAKEN BY DELOITTE SINCE THE ADELPHIA AUDIT 
 
       Deloitte now uses a proprietary financial analysis tool (“Deloitte Radar” or “DDAR”) to 
assist in its assessment of substantially all of its U.S. public company clients with publicly traded 
equity securities as to their potential for financial statement fraud or business failure.  This 
information is used by Deloitte in planning its risk-based audit procedures, including Deloitte’s 
assessment of whether a client should be included in the Risk Management Program. 
 
       After May 2002, but before the entry of this Order, for the audits of public companies  
placed in the Risk Management Program, Deloitte established and implemented the following 
enhancements to its audit policies and procedures:  
  
       a.     Deloitte now notifies the Audit Committee about a client’s placement in the Risk 
Management Program. 

                                               12
  
---------------------Page 13---------------------

   
       b.     Deloitte forensic specialists are now involved in the audit planning for certain 
clients in the Risk Management Program that are determined by Deloitte to be at a high risk of  
fraud.  The Audit Engagement Partner also retains the discretion to have Deloitte forensic 
specialists involved in audit planning in other audits in the Risk Management Program. 
 
       c.     The Audit Engagement Partner now conducts a detailed review of the principal 
audit workpapers and the Concurring Partner must do an overriding review.  
 
       d.     At the conclusion of the audit of clients in the Risk Management Program the 
engagement team must document its conclusions about the effectiveness of audit response to 
identified audit risks, and the Special Review Partner must concur. 
  
       e.      Deloitte now develops and documents circumstances specific to each particular 
client under which the client would be permitted by Deloitte to exit the Risk Management 
Program. 
    
G. UNDERTAKINGS BY DELOITTE 
 
1.      Upon submission of its Offer, Deloitte will deposit $25 million into an escrow account.  
Within 10 days of the date of this order, those funds shall be paid to the Clerk of the United States    
District Court for the Southern District of New York, together with a cover letter identifying 
Deloitte as the defendant in SEC v. Deloitte 05 Civ. 4119 (S.D.N.Y), and specifying that the 
payment is made in connection with the Commission's administrative proceeding. Deloitte shall 
simultaneously transmit photocopies of such payment and letter to Helene T. Glotzer, Securities 
and Exchange Commission, 3 World Financial Center, New York, NY 10281. By making this 
payment, Deloitte relinquishes all legal and equitable right, title, and interest in such funds, and 
no part of the funds shall be returned to Deloitte. Once the Respondent has paid these funds 
pursuant to this Order, the Respondent shall have no further obligation, liability or responsibility 
with respect to these funds.  The Clerk shall deposit the funds into an interest bearing account. 
These funds, together with any interest and income earned thereon (collectively, the "Fund"), 
shall be held until further order of the Court. In accordance with the guidelines set by the 
Director of the Administrative Office of the United States District Courts, the Clerk is directed, 
without further order of the Court, to deduct from the income earned on the money in the Fund a 
fee equal to ten percent of the income earned on the Fund. Such fee shall not exceed that 
authorized by the Judicial Conference of the United States. The Commission may by motion 
propose a plan to distribute the Fund subject to the Court's approval. Such a plan may provide 
that the Fund shall be distributed pursuant to the Fair Fund provisions of Section 308(a) of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  Deloitte acknowledges that such funds will not be used to pay 
attorneys' fees in any private damages action brought against Deloitte by or on behalf of one or 
more Adelphia investors.    
 
2.      For audits of public companies placed in the Risk Management Program and commencing 
with audits of financial statements with a year-ended June 30, 2005, Deloitte will establish and 
implement the following policies and procedures:  

                                               13
  
---------------------Page 14---------------------

 
       a.      Knowledgeable and experienced partners shall be appointed as Special Review 
Partners to oversee the planning and design of audit procedures for audit risks that have been 
identified in the planning stage of the audit, and these audit procedures will be specifically tailored 
to the particular audit risks identified in connection with the audit 
 
       b.      Deloitte will utilize Deloitte forensic specialists in the planning stage of audits of all 
clients in the Risk Management Program.   
 
       c.      Prior to the issuance of a Report  of an Independent Public Accountant, the 
Engagement Partner will be responsible for the preparation of a written memorandum: (1) listing 
specific and pervasive audit risks identified at the planning stage of the audit as well as any 
significant issues that arose during the engagement; (2) describing procedures used to address each 
identified risk and issue; and (3) explaining why such procedures adequately address the risk or  
issue.  The Special Review Partner will: (1) review the memorandum; (2) determine through 
review of the memorandum, inquiry of the Engagement Partner, and, if the Special Review Partner 
deems appropriate, review of certain workpapers, whether the Special Review Partner concurs with 
the view of the Engagement Partner that the procedures adequately addressed the risk or issue; and 
(3) document that concurrence in the workpapers. 
 
       d.      The Engagement Partner and the Special Review     Partner will review any 
significant issues arising during the audit to determine whether it is appropriate under the 
circumstances to consult with Deloitte’s National Office about the issue.  If consultation over such 
an issue occurs, the engagement team will ensure that the audit workpapers document any such 
consultation involving Deloitte’s National Office. 
 
3.     Within 24 months from the date of this order, Deloitte will take reasonable steps to ensure 
that all Deloitte audit professionals have completed 8 hours of training on: (a) fraud detection; and 
(b) operation of, and an auditor’s responsibilities u nder, Section 10A of the Exchange Act, based 
upon training materials approved by an individual or organization not unacceptable to the staff of 
the Commission.  Training will include techniques in detecting or responding to possible fraud by 
audit clients, or by employees, officers or directors of audit clients. 
 
4.     Within ten days of the date of this Order, Deloitte shall distribute copies of the Order to all 
audit professionals. 
 
5.     Eighteen months from the date of this Order, Deloitte will retain, at its own expense, an 
independent consultant not unacceptable to the staff of the Commission, to review Deloitte’s 
compliance with the undertakings set forth in this Section.  The consultant will, within 120 days of 
commencing his/her review, provide a report of the results of that review to the staff of the 
Commission.  In addition, Deloitte shall require the Consultant to enter into an agreement that 
provides that for the period of engagement and for a period of two years from completion of the 
engagement, the Consultant shall not enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, 
auditing or other professional relationship with Deloitte, or any of its present or former affiliates, 
directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such.  The agreement will also 

                                                14
  
---------------------Page 15---------------------

provide that the Consultant will require that any firm with which he/she is affiliated or of which 
he/she is a member, and any person engaged to assist the Consultant in the performance of his/her 
duties under this Order shall not, without prior written consent of the Commission’s staff, enter 
into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with 
Deloitte, or any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in 
their capacity as such for the period of the engagement and for a period of two years after the 
engagement. 
 
6.      The above policies and procedures are intended to enhance the procedures applied to those 
clients placed in the Risk Management Program and to enhance the training of Deloitte personnel.  
Both Deloitte and the Commission recognize that auditing standards and procedures are constantly 
evolving and improving, and that such developments may dictate that a change in approach from 
these undertakings may be appropriate.  Accordingly at any time within the term of this order, 
Deloitte may make a request to the staff of the Commission’s Office of the Chief Accountant to 
alter or modify these policies or procedures and the Office of the Chief Accountant will determine 
whether it is necessary or appropriate for the Commission to approve such a change. 
         
 
                                                   IV. 
                                                      
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Deloitte’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, effective immediately, that Deloitte is censured 
pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
 
 
 
 By the Commission             
 
 
 
 
        Jonathan                                                              G. Katz
        Secretary                                                            

                                                    15
  
