---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                           BEFORE the 

                        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  59205 / January 6, 2009 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2915 / January 6, 2009 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING                                                                                                
FILE NO.  3-13326 

                                                    ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
In the Matter of                                    ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
                                                    AND IMPOSING TEMPORARY 
     PAVLOS MELETIOU, CERTIFIED                     SUSPENSION PURSUANT TO RULE 
ACCOUNTANT                                          102(e)(3) OF THE COMMISSION’S 
                                                    RULES OF PRACTICE

  Respondent. 

                                       I. 

       The Securities and Exchange Commission ( “Commission”) deems it appropriate and in 
the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant 
to Rule 102(e)(3)1
                  of the Commission’s Rules of Practice against Pavlos Meletiou (“Respondent” 
or “Meletiou”). 

                                             II. 

       The Commission finds that: 

       A.     RESPONDENT 

              1.     Meletiou was a partner of the accounting firm PKF Cyprus while 
AremisSoft Corporation (“AremisSoft”) was a public company.  He was responsible for the 

1
  Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and 
without preliminary hearing, may, by order, … suspend from appearing or practicing before it any  … accountant … 
who has been by name … permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her 
misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any 
provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

audits and reviews of AremisSoft subsidiaries that PKF Cyprus conducted.  He was a certified 
accountant in Cyprus.  He is a citizen of Cyprus, where he currently resides. 

       B.     CIVIL INJUNCTION 

              2.      On September 23, 2008, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District 
of New York entered a final default judgment against Meletiou, permanently enjoining him from 
future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 10(b) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Exchange Act Rule 10b-5 and from 
aiding and abetting future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the 
Exchange Act, and Exchange Act Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13b2-1.  Securities and Exchange 
Commission v. Savvides & Partners/PKF Cyprus, Pavlos Meletiou, et. al., 06 CV 2223 (CSH) 
(S.D.N.Y.) 

              3.      The Commission’s complaint, filed March 21, 2006, alleged, among other 
things, that Meletiou signed unqualified audit reports on behalf of PKF Cyprus, a Cyprus-based 
accounting firm, for AremisSoft subsidiaries in 1999 and 2000 that falsely stated that the audits 
were conducted in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (“GAAS”) and 
that the AremisSoft subsidiaries’ financial statements were fairly presented in conformity with 
U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”).  The complaint further alleged that 
Meletiou was responsible for the audits and reviews of the AremisSoft subsidiaries and that he 
attended meetings with senior AremisSoft executives in which the AremisSoft financial fraud 
was openly discussed. 

                                              III. 

       Based upon the foregoing, the Commission finds that a court of competent jurisdiction 
has permanently enjoined Meletiou from violating the Federal securities laws within the meaning 
of Rule 102(e)(3)(i)(A) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  In view of these findings, the 
Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest that Meletiou be temporarily 
suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant. 

       IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Meletiou be, and hereby is, temporarily suspended from 
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant.  This Order shall be effective 
upon service on the Respondent. 

       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Meletiou may within thirty days after service of this 
Order file a petition with the Commission to lift the temporary suspension.  If the Commission 
within thirty days after service of the Order receives no petition, the suspension shall become 
permanent pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(ii). 

       If a petition is received within thirty days after service of this Order, the Commission 
shall, within thirty days after the filing of the petition, either lift the temporary suspension, or set 
the matter down for hearing at a time and place to be designated by the Commission, or both.  If 
a hearing is ordered, following the hearing, the Commission may lift the suspension, censure the 

                                               2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

petitioner, or disqualify the petitioner from appearing or practicing before the Commission for a 
period of time, or permanently, pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(iii). 

       This Order shall be served upon Meletiou by registered mail at his last known address. 

       By the Commission. 

       Elizabeth                                               M. Murphy 
       S                                              ecretary 

                                                3

