---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                      the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  54234 / July 28, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2468 / July 28, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12385 
 
                                               
                                               
In the Matter of                              ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
                                              PROCEEDINGS, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
Eric A. McAfee,                               IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
                                              PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF THE 
Respondent.                                   SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
 
 
 
                                                
 
                                           I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and he reby are, instituted pursuant to  Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Eric A. McAfee (“McAfee” or “Respondent”).   
                                            
                                          II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these  proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) whic h the Commission has determined  to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisd  iction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings, Making  Findings, and Impo sing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to 
Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 

 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                  III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1
                                                                                       that:  
                                              Summary 
  
1.          These proceedings involve violations of th e anti-fraud provisions of the federal securities 
laws from mid-2003 through early 2004 by a pub licly-traded oil and gas field services company 
then known as Verdisys, Inc. (“Verdisys”).  At that time, McAfee was the controlling shareholder 
and a director of Verdisys.  McAfee, and others , caused Verdisys to make inaccurate disclosures 
regarding its revenues and expenses.  2
 
                                             Respondent 
 
2.          McAfee, 42, of Saratoga, California, was Verdisys’ CEO for five months from November 
2002 to March 2003 (before it became publicly held  in mid-2003), and a Verdisys director from 
late 2000 until his resignation in   March 2004.  McAf  ee was and remains Verdisys’ largest 
shareholder, owning approximately 28% of Verdisys’ outstanding common stock, 2.8% directly 
and 25.6% beneficially through two venture capital firms and through family holdings. 
 
                                       Other Relevant Entity 
 
3.         Verdisys, a California corporation with cor   porate headquarters in Houston, Texas, is 
primarily engaged in reworking existing oil a       nd gas wells to renew or   enhance production.  
Verdisys also provides broadband sa tellite links for the remote control of oil and gas wells and 
related infrastructure.  Verdisys filed periodic and other reports with the SEC pursuant to Section 
15(d) of the Exchange Act, and at all times rele vant herein, its common stock (or the stock of a 
corporate predecessor) was quoted on the NASD’s OTC BB.          3
                                                                     
 
                                             Background 
 
4.         In late 2000, McAfee purchased a controllin      g interest in a privately-held corporate 
predecessor of Verdisys, then base d in Fresno, California, which  had attempted to establish an 
Internet-based exchange for the purchase and sale  of agri-business goods and services.  McAfee 

                                                 
1
               The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
2
        See SEC v. Blast Energy Services, Inc. (fka Verdisys, Inc.), et al                               , Civ. Action No. 4:06-CV-02441 (U.S. 
Dist. Ct., Southern District of Texas) (filed July 24, 2006), regarding injunctive proceedings against Verdisys and 
others for, inter alia, making inaccurate disclosures regarding drilling work, expenses and revenues. 
 
3
               References herein to Verdisys (the corporate name at the time of the violations discussed herein) shall 
mean and include Verdisys’ predecessors and successors, in cluding the privately-held corporate predecessor named 
Verdisys, Inc., and Reconstruction Data Group, Inc., a California corporation that ha  d ceased business operations 
but which was still quoted on the OTC BB on May 2, 2003, when its pending reverse merger with the privately-held 
Verdisys was announced.  The merger became effective July  18, 2003, at which time sh ares in the privately-held 
corporation were exchanged for shares  in Reconstruction Data, Inc., which was renamed Verdisys.  In June 2005, 
Verdisys changed its name to Blast Energy Services, Inc.   
                                                   2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

signed a consulting agreement to provide the comp any with fundraising services, and assumed a 
position on its board. 
 
5.          In January 2002, the company refocused its operations on providing satellite services to 
rural markets, including energy companies.  In November 2002, the directors of the privately-held 
company, by then re-named Verdisys, insta  lled McAfee as the CEO to revamp operations.  
McAfee narrowed Verdisys’ activities to the business of oil and gas field services.  In the Spring of 
2003, the headquarters of the   company was moved to Housto n, Texas and a new CEO was 
installed in March 2003.  In the Spring of 2003, in a transacti    on arranged by McAfee, then a 
director of the company, Verdisys issued two million shares of stock, purportedly as consideration 
for software represented to monitor conditions within oil and gas well bores.  At that time, McAfee 
also negotiated Verdisys’ acquisition of a licen  se to use patented lateral drilling technology.  4
                                                                                                      
McAfee then negotiated Verdisys’ reverse merger with a dormant, publicly traded shell company. 
 
                  Misleading Disclosures Regarding Compensation Expense 
 
6.          On September 29, 2003, Verd isys filed a Form 8-K/A to  announce the completion of its 
reverse merger, and included financial statements  for the surviving entity.  A footnote to the 
financial statements advised that in April 2003,  Verdisys issued two million shares of common 
stock, valued at $1 million, ostensibly to acquire software, but that the software had been deemed 
not useful, and Verdisys was therefore recording an impairment expense of $1 million. 
 
7.          McAfee had convinced the Verdisys board to purchase the software by claiming it would 
allow the remote monitoring of oil and gas well s, which would complement Verdisys’ sales of 
broadband satellite links to oil and gas companie s.  McAfee controlled the company selling the 
software, and he knew that the software only screened job applications and resumes of health 
care executives and did not monitor conditions in   oil and gas wells.  McAfee did not tell the 
company’s directors that the transaction compensated a stock promoter, who received half of the 
two million shares.5
                      As a result, McAfee caused Verdisys, essentially a start-up company, to not 
disclose that it had issued one million shares  and incurred a compensation expense of $500,000, 
to retain the promoter, before it could claim significant assets, revenues or business operations. 
 
                          Misleading Disclosures Regarding Revenues 
 
8.          Verdisys delayed the filing  of its quarterly report for  the quarter ended September 30, 
2003 (the “3Q Form 10-QSB”), after its auditor raised revenue recognition issues concerning a 
material $1.5 million receivable related to the co  mpany’s largest drilling contract.  While the 

                                                 
4
               As described by Verdisys in periodic reports filed w ith the SEC, the technology pumped drilling fluids at 
high pressure through flexible hydraulic hoses and out a high-pressure nozzle, cutting new lateral channels from an 
original vertical well bore, to enhance the flow from previously tapped reservoirs of oil and gas or to reach new 
reservoirs. 
 
5
              McAfee beneficially received 230,000 restricted shares, and the other shareholders of the software 
corporation received the remaining 770,000 shares. 
 
                                                 3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

filing was in abeyance, McAfee caused Verdisys            to issue an earnings release predicting the 
company would soon report record earnings. 
 
9.          McAfee participated in effo rts to justify recognition of  the $1.5 million receivable.  On 
November 19, 2003, to meet the filing deadline and avoid any drop in the company’s stock price, 
McAfee ordered Verdisys’ accounting staff to file the 3Q Form 10-QSB, even though the auditor 
had yet to review the financial statements found  in the filing.  The 3Q  Form 10-QSB filed as a 
result claimed Verdisys had earned total curr ent period revenues of $2.09 million, including the 
questioned $1.5 million receivable.  The 3Q Fo           rm 10-QSB did not disclose that McAfee’s 
attempts to confirm recognition of the $1.5 mill ion receivable involved a buy-out agreement, by 
which Verdisys would assume substantial lia bilities and forego collecting upon the $1.5 million 
receivable to purchase the drilling project from which the receivable arose. 
 
10.        On December 3, 2003, after the auditor completed his review, Verdisys filed an amended 
3Q Form 10-QSB.  Verdisys still claimed approximately $2 million in revenues, but, as its auditor 
advised, it classified only the  $500,000 actually paid as current period revenues.  The remaining 
$1.5 million supposedly owed upon the receivable was re-classified as deferred revenues, because 
of collection and contract contingency issues.   6
                                                       
                                                Violations 
 
11.       As a result of the conduct described above,   McAfee caused Verdisys to violate Section 
10(b) of the Exchange Act and         Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in 
connection with the purchase or sale of securities.                                
 
                                                    IV. 
                                                       
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission  deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent McAfee’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby   ORDERED that Respondent McAfee cease and desist from 
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange 
Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

                                                 
6
               Verdisys later determined it could not substantiate the delivery of any drilling services in the second and 
third quarters of 2003, and made disclosures and quarterly restatements that eliminated all unearned revenues, 
including the $1.5 million in deferred revenues. 
                                                     4 
