---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                      the 

                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 58439 / August 28, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2869 / August 28, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13150 

                                        : 
                                        : 
                                        : 
      In the Matter of                  :      ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                        :      PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
             ALVIN L. DAHL (CPA),   :          102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                        :      PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
             Respondent.                :      IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                        : 
                                        : 
____________________________________ : 

                                           I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Alvin L. 
Dahl (“Respondent” or “Dahl”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1 

                                          II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 

1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 

      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings and the findings contained in Section III.3., below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  

              1.      Dahl, age 65, is a resident of Plano, Texas.  From June 2000 through April 
2002, Dahl rendered accounting services to 21st
                                              Century Technologies, Inc. (“21st
                                                                               Century”) on a 
contract basis.  From April 2002 through November 2004, Dahl served as 21 st
                                                                            Century’s Chief 
Financial Officer.  He signed and certified 21st
                                             Century’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year 
2003 and its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the first and second quarters of 2004 as the 
company’s Chief Financial Officer.  At all relevant times, Dahl has also been self-employed as a 
certified public accountant.  Dahl’s CPA license was granted by the State of Texas.  

              2.      21st
                          Century was, at all relevant times, a Nevada corporation with its 
principal place of business in Las Vegas, Nevada.  As a business development company regulated 
under the Investment Company Act of 1940, 21 st
                                               Century raised capital and made investments in 
various entities. At all relevant times, 21st
                                         Century’s common stock was registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), 
and traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board.  On November 1, 2005, 21 st
                                                                              Century filed for 
protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and was formally dissolved by the State 
of Nevada on July 13, 2007. 

              3.      On April 10, 2008, the Commission filed a complaint against Dahl in SEC 
v. Compass Capital Group, Inc., et al., Civil Action No. 2:08-cv-00457-ECR-PAL (D. Nev.).  On 
August 6, 2008, the U.S. District Court for the District of Nevada entered an order permanently 
enjoining Dahl, by consent, from future violations of Rule 13a-14 promulgated under the Exchange 
Act and from aiding and abetting violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-
20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder.  Dahl was also ordered to pay a $5,000 civil money penalty and 
barred from participating in an offering of penny stock. 

              4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Dahl aided 
 and abetted 21st
                 Century’s violations of Exchange Act Section 13(a) and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 
 when he prepared 21 st
                       Century’s false and misleading Form 10-K for 2003 and Forms 10-Q for 
 the first and second quarters of 2004.  The complaint alleged that Dahl also violated Exchange 
 Act Rule 13a-14 when he certified that those filings were complete and accurate, even though 
 they contained material omissions concerning certain of 21st
                                                            Century’s reported investments.  
 The complaint further alleged, among other things, that Dahl knew at the time he certified 
 certain filings that (i) a supposed “commercial loan” was actually a loan to prevent a foreclosure 

                                               2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

 on a personal residence; and (ii) the recipient of another loan was misidentified in 21st
                                                                                     Century’s 
 filings with the Commission in order to avoid potential stigma from association with the entity 
 that received the loan, which was involved in pornography.   

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Dahl’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     Dahl is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.  

       B.     After 12 months from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 

              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 

                      (a)    Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision;

               (c)           Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      (d)    Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 
                                               3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

 By       the Commission. 

       F                                             lorence E. Harmon
       A                                              cting Secretary 

                                               4

