---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                  STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                            the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  54830 / November 29, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2518 / November 29, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12487 
 ______________________________         
     : 
In the Matter of                                       :             ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS 
     : PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF THE 
ASHLAND INC. and                             : SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 
WILLIAM C. OLASIN,                       :             1934, MAKING FINDINGS AND 
     : IMPOSING A                                            CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
  Respondents.  :  
                                                               : 
 
 
                                                I. 
                                                  
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Ashland Inc. (“Ashland”) and William C. Olasin 
(“Olasin”) (collectively, “Respondents”). 
 
                                                II. 
                                                  
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Ashland and Olasin each have 
submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offers”), which the Commission has determined to accept.  
Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of 
the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over Respondents and the subject 
matter of these proceedings, which Respondents admit, Respondents consent to the issuance of this 
Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
Making Findings and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.  
 

 
 
  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              III. 
                                                 
                                            FACTS 
                                                 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds that: 
                                                 
 A.           Summary 
 
       Between 1999 and 2001, William Olasin, Ashland Inc.’s Director of Environmental 
Remediation, reduced the cost estimates for remediating environmental contamination at dozens of  
chemical and refinery sites for which Ashland had responsibility.  Ashland used those estimates to 
determine its environmental reserve, which Ashland disclosed in the periodic reports that it filed 
with the Commission.  Olasin had no reasonable basis for reducing these cost estimates, which had 
been developed by a team of Ashland engineers, an outside consultant, and a computer program.   
        
       Ashland’s process for setting its environmental reserve did not establish adequate 
guidelines for, or require documentation or review of, adjustments to the cost estimates.  Ashland 
included the estimates that Olasin had reduced in its reported environmental reserve.  As a result, 
Ashland materially understated its environmental reserve and overstated its net income in annual 
and quarterly reports filed from 1999 to 2001.   
        
       Ashland violated the reporting, books and records, and internal controls provisions of the 
Exchange Act, Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 
thereunder.  Olasin caused Ashland’s violations, and also violated Rule 13b2-1 of the Exchange 
Act.  
  
       B.     Respondents
 
              1.      Ashland Inc. is a Fortune 500 chemical company incorporated in 
Kentucky.  Ashland’s common stock is registered with the Commission under Section 12(b) of the 
Exchange Act and is listed on the New York and Chicago Stock Exchanges under the symbol 
“ASH.”  During the relevant period, Ashland’s primary businesses included chemical production 
and distribution, such as its Valvoline motor oil division, highway and bridge construction, and 
petroleum refining and marketing.  Ashland is responsible for cleaning up environmental 
contamination at locations throughout the country.  Ashland’s fiscal year ends on September 30 
and, in 2005, Ashland reported revenue of $9.9 billion and operating income of $746 million.  
Ashland’s environmental reserve was a significant item in its financial statements from 1998 to 
2005, ranging from a low of $152 million to a high of $178 million.   
        
  2.                   William Olasin, age 55, resides in Dublin, Ohio.  Olasin was Ashland’s 
Director of Environmental Remediation from 1996 until April 2006, when Ashland reassigned 
Olasin as a project manager within the Engineering Department.  Olasin has a B.A. from Marietta 
College, Ohio in biology and geology and a B.S. from the University of Michigan in natural 
resources. 
 
 

                                               2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 C.            Relevant Accounting Principles 
 
              As a public company, Ashland is required to fairly, accurately, and timely report its 
financial results and condition.  To ensure fair and accurate reports, the federal securities laws and 
the Commission’s regulations require public companies, such as Ashland, to prepare and present 
their reports and financial statements in conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles (“GAAP”).  Under GAAP, items listed in financial statements must be reliable, i.e., 
sufficiently faithful in their representation of the underlying obligations and sufficiently free of 
error and bias to be useful to others making decisions based on the financial statements.1
                                                                                          Financial 
statements filed with the Commission that are not prepared in accordance with GAAP are 
presumed to be misleading or inaccurate.  Ashland represented in its Commission filings that its 
financial statements complied with GAAP. 
 
       Ashland’s expenditures for environmental compliance have a significant effect on its 
businesses.  As required by GAAP, Ashland accrues an environmental reserve for future costs that 
it expects to incur to remediate contamination.2
                                                 Ashland explained in its annual reports and the 
notes to its financial statements that the reserve reflects the company’s “estimates of the most 
likely costs which will be incurred over an extended period to remediate identified 
environmental conditions for which the costs are reasonably estimable[.]”   
        
 D.            Ashland’s Process for Estimating the Environmental Reserve 
 
       From 1999 through 2001, Ashland’s environmental remediation efforts were managed by 
the Remediation Group within the company’s Environmental, Health and Safety Department 
(“EH&S”).  As the director of Ashland’s Remediation Group, Olasin was responsible for 
Ashland’s determination of its future environmental liability.  Olasin supervised a group of six 
environmental engineers who managed remediation at various sites and determined the initial 
liability estimates used to set the reserve.    
        
       Although Olasin was responsible for the accuracy of all estimates, Olasin’s Remediation 
Group provided estimates for only some categories, including the chemical and refinery sites.  For 
other categories, Olasin reviewed estimates forwarded to him by other Ashland divisions and 
consultants.   
        
       Olasin’s Remediation Group used a “decision tree” method for determining the cleanup 
cost estimates for remediating the chemical and refinery sites.  Each spring, the engineers in the 

                                                 
1
              FASB Concepts Statement No. 5, Recognition and Measurement in Financial Statements of 
Business Enterprises, paragraphs 63 and 75.   
 
2
              Financial Accounting Standard No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies (“FAS 5”), requires Ashland to 
accrue for future remediation costs if it is probable that the company has incurred a liability and it can 
reasonably estimate the amount of the loss.  The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants’ 
Statement of Position 96-1, Environmental Remediation Liabilities, identifies future remediation costs that 
must be included in the company’s environmental reserve, such as pre-cleanup activities and performance of 
remedial action.   

                                                 3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

Remediation Group met for two days with an independent, outside consultant to analyze each 
remediation site.  Olasin did not participate in these sessions because of the independent 
consultant’s concern that Olasin could bias the input of the engineers.  At the sessions, the 
engineers presented possible remediation strategies for each site and the estimated costs for each 
remedy.  The group critiqued each strategy and cost estimate.  The independent consultant, who 
had a doctorate in engineering and 25 years of environmental remediation experience, facilitated 
the discussion by asking for justifications for the engineers’ estimates and keeping the group within 
a set of “ground rules,” which described the types of costs that should be accrued and listed 
assumptions that Ashland used in the process.     
        
       After the engineers reached a consensus for each site, the consultant entered the estimates 
into a computer program called “Crystal Ball,” which generated a probability range of the total 
future cost estimates for each site.  The Crystal Ball output was forwarded to Olasin for his review.  
Ashland considered it appropriate for Olasin to correct mistakes in the estimates or otherwise 
adjust them, as long as he had a reasonable basis for doing so.  After his review, Olasin provided 
the cost estimates to an accountant who worked for Ashland as a contractor.  The accountant 
compiled all estimates into a single report, which Olasin then forwarded to an assistant controller.  
The assistant controller used the estimates to determine Ashland’s environmental reserve, which 
Ashland recorded in its books and records and reported in its Commission filings.   
        
       Ashland conducted this process once each year, and recorded any resulting change to its 
environmental reserve during the fourth quarter.  In the first three quarters of each following year, 
Ashland carried forward the prior year’s reserve estimate, after making adjustments based on 
expenditures during the quarter and any unusual developments.  
        
 E.            Olasin’s Reductions 
 
              Between 1999 and 2001, Olasin made multiple reductions to the cost estimates determined 
by the team of engineers and the independent consultant that Ashland used to set its environmental 
reserve.  Olasin had no reasonable basis and no supporting documentation for these reductions, 
which generally were across-the-board reductions of various sites by the same large percentage. 
 
              In 1999, after reviewing the Crystal Ball output, Olasin directed the accountant to reduce 
by 25% the Crystal Ball calculations for fourteen of the chemical and refinery sites whose costs 
were estimated through the decision tree process – including seven of the ten largest sites.  Olasin 
then directed the accountant to reduce the reserve for all chemical and refinery locations whose 
costs were estimated through the decision tree process (more than fifty sites) “across the board” by 
an additional 25%, including the fourteen sites already reduced.  There is neither a documented 
basis for Olasin’s reductions nor any evidence that each site’s estimate was overstated by the same 
percentage.  
        
       Olasin’s reductions decreased Ashland’s reserve by over $12 million, which reduced the 
reserve for Ashland’s chemical and refinery sites whose costs were estimated through the decision 
tree process by 33% and decreased Ashland’s total reserve by 6.9% to $166 million.  Ashland’s 
annual report and financial statements for 1999 contained the misstated reserve.  Olasin’s 
reductions also increased Ashland’s fourth quarter net income by 6.7%, to $114 million.   

                                                4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

        
              In 2000, Olasin used a two-step process to adjust the estimates for more than 40 chemical 
and refinery sites whose costs had been estimated through the decision tree process.  First, Olasin 
reduced the estimates for 20 sites by approximately 25%, and reduced the estimates for an 
additional five sites by approximately 44%, the equivalent of two 25% reductions.  Olasin also 
reduced the estimates for nine sites, including three of the five largest, by 38% to 73% to round 
number estimates. 3
                     Olasin also increased the estimates for five sites.  Second, Olasin reduced the 
estimates for 38 sites by an additional 3%.  Revised Crystal Ball data reflecting the first series of 
adjustments was maintained, but no documentation exists to justify the reductions, or to indicate 
that multiple sites were overstated by the same percentage. 
 
       Olasin’s reductions in 2000 decreased Ashland’s reserve by over $12 million, which 
reduced the reserve for chemical sites whose costs were estimated through the decision tree process 
by 41% and reduced Ashland’s total reserve by 7% to $163 million.  The adju    stment also increased 
Ashland’s annual net income before charges for one-time items for 2000 by 2.65% to $292 million, 
and increased net income after charges for one-time items by 12.1% to $70 million.   4
                                                                                        The 
adjustment increased Ashland’s fourth quarter net income by 9% to $96 million.    5
                                                                                      
 
              In 2001, Olasin made an across-the-board, 10% reduction to estimates for 40 sites, 
reducing the reserve by $1,904,000 to $176 million.  There is no documentation supporting these 
reductions.  Olasin’s 10% reduction had the effect of keeping constant the total reserve for the 
chemical sites that he managed, and reduced Ashland’s total environmental reserve by 
approximately 1%.  
 
       Olasin also considered both a 24% and a 10% reduction in 2002, but abandoned the 
planned reduction when Ashland’s internal auditors commenced an internal audit at approximately 
the time the reduction would have been finalized.  A week before the internal auditors interviewed 
Olasin, the Crystal Ball program was re-run to remove the planned adjustment.    6
        
        
  

                                                 
3
              Olasin reduced three of the five largest estimates from $2,968,000, $2,446,000, and $2,324,000 to 
$800,000, $1,000,000, and $1,000,000, respectively.   
4
       Ashland incurred one-time charges in 2000 for a discontinued operation and debt retirement.   
5
              The 2000 adjustment was carried forward during the first three quarters in 2001.  Ashland began 
disclosing its environmental reserve in quarterly reports in the second quarter of 2001.  As a result, the 
reduction in 2000 decreased the environmental reserve that Ashland reported in its quarterly reports for 
the second and third quarters of 2001 by 7.5% in the second quarter and 6.3% in the third quarter. 
6
              Ashland’s reserve for the chemical sites that were the subject of Olasin’s reductions increased 
considerably when his reductions stopped after 2001.  From 2001 to 2005, Ashland’s reserve for the 
chemical onsite locations grew from $18 million to over $36 million. 

                                                  5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       F.      Ashland’s Internal Controls 
 
       During the relevant period, Ashland’s internal controls for setting the company’s 
environmental reserve depended on detailed, documented support for the engineers’ estimates, as 
well as the peer critique session led by the independent consultant.  Ashland maintained specific, 
written procedures describing this process.  However, Ashland’s internal controls were inadequate 
because they did not establish guidelines for, or require documentation or review of, adjustments to 
the engineers’ cost estimates.  Olasin helped design these controls.   
        
       Prior to 2001, Ashland’s written procedures did not provide a process for adjusting the cost 
estimates generated by the Crystal Ball process.  In 2001, Ashland changed the written procedures 
to indicate that the “management team” might adjust the estimates produced by the engineers.  
However, the revised procedures did not identify the “management team” and did not establish any 
guidelines setting forth when or how an adjustment could be made.  In addition, unlike the 
documented, factual basis required for the original estimates, the procedures did not require 
documentation or review of any adjustments.   
        
 G      .     Ashland Receives Complaints in 2002 
 
              In 2002, three engineers who worked for Olasin raised questions about Olasin’s conduct 
regarding the process of setting the environmental reserve in their confidential responses to an 
internal Code of Conduct Questionnaire and Certification Statement.  One engineer specifically 
alleged, among other things, that Olasin was improperly reducing the reserve through 
“management adjustments.”   7
                                
 
              In response to these reports, Ashland’s law department informed the internal audit 
department about the first engineer’s complaints and asked it to conduct an audit.  Consistent with 
the audit department’s normal practice, the internal audit was designed to evaluate internal 
controls, not to determine whether Ashland’s reserve conformed with GAAP.  The internal 
auditors did nothing to familiarize themselves with the accounting rules for an environmental 
reserve. 
 
              The internal auditors reviewed only fiscal years 2001 and 2002, and discovered Olasin’s 
10% reduction in 2001.  The auditors asked Olasin about the 2001 reduction, and Olasin said that 
he reduced the estimates because, in his judgment, they were approximately 10% too high and he 
did not have time for a site-by-site review.  The auditors asked Olasin for documentation or other 
support for the reduction in 2001, but he said there was none.  The auditors also reviewed 
individual adjustments that Olasin made in 2002, and asked Olasin and the remediation engineers 
responsible for the sites in question about the adjustments.  Olasin explained the reasons for the 
adjustments, and the engineers agreed that the adjustments were proper.  The auditors did not find 
the planned across-the-board reductions for 2002.  The auditors concluded that the 10% reduction 
in 2001 (which amounted to less than $2 million) was not quantitatively material and 
recommended changes to Ashland’s environmental reserve process, including documentation and 
tracking of all changes to cost estimates, and review and approval by the engineers of any change 
made to site estimates.  Ashland implemented these recommendations. 
                                                 
7
              Olasin himself referred to his reductions as “management adjustments.”  

                                                6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 
       A few days after responding to a preview of the internal audit report, Olasin told the first 
engineer (whose identity he had learned) that his performance was suffering and that he should 
spend the weekend thinking about whether he wanted to stay with the company.  The engineer 
ultimately left Ashland because he believed that he was being subjected to retaliation.8
                                                                                       Ashland 
learned about the engineer’s concerns about retaliation, including Olasin’s instruction that the 
engineer should consider whether he wanted to continue working at Ashland.  Ashland did not 
discipline Olasin for this conduct, but his supervisor told him that it was wrong.  In April 2006, 
after the Commission staff’s investigation was complete, Ashland reassigned Olasin as a project 
manager within Ashland’s Engineering Department and removed him from the reserve setting 
process.  
        
       H.      Legal Analysis 
 
  1.                   Reporting Violations 
 
       Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder require issuers 
with securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act to file annual and quarterly reports 
with the Commission, and the obligation to file such reports includes the requirement that they be 
true and correct.  Rule 12b-20 further requires that such reports contain any additional information 
necessary to ensure that the required statements in the reports are not, under the circumstances, 
materially misleading.  Financial statements in Commission filings that do not comply with GAAP 
are presumed to be misleading.  Regulation S-X, 17 C.F.R. 210.4-01(a)(1). 
        
       GAAP required Ashland to maintain an environmental reserve, and Ashland identified the 
reserve in its Commission filings as important to its business.  As discussed above, Ashland’s 
annual reports and notes to the company’s financial statements filed on Form 10-K for 1999 and 
2000 materially understated Ashland’s environmental reserve and overstated its net income.  
Ashland also materially understated the company’s environmental reserve in its quarterly reports 
for the second and third quarters of 2001, filed on Form 10-Q.  The misstatements ranged from 7% 
to 12%.  As a result of this conduct, Ashland violated Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 
12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder.  Olasin caused Ashland’s violations by improperly reducing 
the cost estimates used to determine Ashland’s environmental reserve.   
        
              2.      Record Keeping and Internal Controls Violations 
        
       Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires Section 12 registrants to make and keep 
books, records, and accounts that accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of 
their assets.  Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires such registrants to devise and 
maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that, 
among other things, transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial 
statements in conformity with GAAP and to maintain the accountability of assets.  Exchange Act 
Rule 13b2-1 prohibits the direct or indirect falsification of any book, record, or account subject to 
                                                 
8
              The engineer filed a complaint with the Department of Labor under the whistleblower protection 
provisions of Section 806 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and eventually reached a settlement with 
Ashland.   

                                                7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

Section 13(b)(2)(A).   
        
       Ashland violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) because its books and records contained inaccurate 
cost estimates that were used to determine the company’s environmental reserve in fiscal years 
1999, 2000, and 2001.  Olasin caused Ashland’s violations by reducing the cost estimates without 
a reasonable basis and documentation.  Ashland’s internal controls were deficient, and the 
company violated Section 13(b)(2)(B), because the company had no guidelines, documentation, or 
review requirements for adjustments of the cost estimates developed by the team of Ashland 
engineers.  Olasin caused Ashland’s violations because he helped design Ashland’s controls for the 
decision tree process.  By reducing the engineers’ estimates without any reasonable basis, Olasin 
also caused Ashland’s books and records to be falsified and thereby violated Exchange Act Rule 
13b2-1.   
 
                                              IV. 
                                                 
                                      UNDERTAKINGS
          
       A.       Ashland undertakes to implement the following revisions that it has made to its 
              policies and procedures for determining its environmental reserve: 
        
              1.       Document all adjustments to the environmental remediation reserve 
                      estimates and the reasons for each adjustment to create a clear audit trail of 
                      the estimates.   

              2.       Retain all records relating to environmental remediation reserve estimates 
                      for a period of seven years following the period to which the reserve 
                      estimates relate. 

              3.       Require the manager of Ashland’s Environmental Remediation Group, or 
                      his or her equivalent or successor, to consult with the remedial engineer or 
                      other individual responsible for the environmental remediation estimate for 
                      a given site before deciding whether to adjust the estimate of that site. 

              4.       Include in Ashland’s Business Responsibility Questionnaire and 
                      Certification (or equivalent or successor document) sent to the 
                      Environmental Remediation Group and Accounting Department, or to their 
                      equivalents or successors, questions concerning whether the individual is 
                      aware of any failure to follow the Environmental Remediation Group’s (or 
                      its equivalent’s or successor’s) reserve-setting procedures or of any 
                      misstatement in Ashland’s books and records concerning any environmental 
                      remediation reserve. 

              5.       Conduct an annual best practices review with Ashland’s outside auditor for 
                      the purpose of discussing and, when appropriate, modifying the company’s 
                      policies and procedures for determining its environmental reserve, including 
                      the  policies and procedures identified in this Section IV.A or instituted as a 
                      result of the undertaking identified in Section IV.C, below.  This review 

                                               8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

                      shall include a comparison of each site’s reserve estimate to the site’s 
                      annual budget and historical expenditures.  

              6.       Require a report to Ashland’s board of directors or an appropriate 
                      committee of the board on an annual basis regarding compliance with these 
                      provisions. 

       B.       Ashland undertakes to preclude Olasin from participating in the determination of 
              Ashland’s environmental reserve, the creation and maintenance of Ashland’s books 
              and records, and the preparation of Ashland’s financial statements. 

       C.       Ashland undertakes to retain PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to review: 

              1.       Ashland’s policies, procedures, and internal controls relating to the 
                      company’s determination of its environmental reserve. 

              2.       Ashland’s policies, procedures, and internal controls relating to solicitation 
                      and investigation of internal complaints, and measures to prevent retaliation 
                      against complainants. 

              Ashland will require PricewaterhouseCoopers to submit to the audit committee of 
              Ashland’s board of directors and the staff of the Division of Enforcement a written 
              report fully documenting its findings and proposed recommendations.  Within 90 
              days after receipt of such report, Ashland’s audit committee, or board of directors, 
              as appropriate, will adopt and implement such recommendations; provided, 
              however, that as to any recommendation that Ashland believes is unduly 
              burdensome or impractical, Ashland may suggest an alternative policy or procedure 
              designed to achieve the same objective, submitted in writing to 
              PricewaterhouseCoopers and the staff of the Division of Enforcement.  Ashland 
              will require PricewaterhouseCoopers to reasonably evaluate any alternative policy 
              or procedure proposed by Ashland, and Ashland agrees that it will abide by the 
              decision of PricewaterhouseCoopers regarding such alternative proposals. 

                                               V. 

              Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that: 
        
       A.          Respondent Ashland violated Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder. 
               
       B.          Respondent Olasin violated Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1 and caused Ashland’s 
violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 
13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder. 
 

 

                                               9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

                                                            VI. 

         In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
 
         Accordingly, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, it is hereby ORDERED, that: 
 
 A. Respondent Ashland cease                         and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 
12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder. 
 
 B. Respondent Olasin cease                        and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
any future violations of Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1 and from causing any violations and any future 
violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 
13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder. 
 
              C.          Respondent Ashland shall comply with its undertakings set forth in Section IV 
above. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

                                                             10 
