---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                      the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  55954 / June 25, 2007 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2623 / June 25, 2007 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12666 
                                              
In the Matter of                              ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND- 
                                              DESIST PROCEEDINGS, MAKING 
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS                        FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE 
MACHINES CORPORATION,                         AND-DESIST ORDER PURSUANT TO  
                                              SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
Respondent.                                   EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
                                                
 
 
 
 
 
                                          I. 
 
            The United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“Co mmission”) deems it 
appropriate that cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 
21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Ex  change Act”), against  International Business 
Machines Corporation (“IBM” or “Respondent”). 
                                            
                                          II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these  proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) whic h the Commission has determined  to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings, Making  Findings, and Impo sing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to 
Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.   
                                            
                                            
                                            
                                            
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1
                                                                                 that: 
 
A.     SUMMARY
 
              In 2000 and 2001, IBM assisted Dollar Gene ral Corporation’s commission of accounting 
fraud through a sham transaction.  The transaction was conceived by an IBM Business Unit 
Executive (the “IBM BUE”) and was designed to achieve a particular accounting result for Dollar 
General.  In addition, IBM maintained inaccurate books and records in 2000 and 2001 that resulted 
from, among other things, revenue recognition errors by various IBM business units in a number of 
countries around the world that departed fr    om Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
(“GAAP”).   
 
              In 1999, IBM and Dollar General agreed that Dollar General would lease new electronic 
cash registers from IBM to replace Dollar General’s old Omron-brand cash registers.  As originally 
planned, Dollar General would phase out the ol d registers and purchase the new IBM equipment 
over a multi-year period.  In the second half   of 2000, however, IBM,  through the IBM BUE, 
suggested that Dollar General accelerate the ro   ll-out of new IBM equipment by leasing for 
approximately $10 million all of the new equipmen t by the end of 2000.  This would have the 
result of increasing IBM’s revenue for fiscal y  ear 2000.  Dollar General initially rejected the 
proposal, however, due to an accounting problem.  Sp ecifically, if Dollar General replaced all of 
the Omron equipment, it would be required to wr ite off the book value of that equipment as an 
expense.  This “book loss” problem, as it became known, in turn, would have a negative impact on 
Dollar General’s earnings for its fiscal year 2000, which ended February 2, 2001. 
 
              IBM, through the IBM BUE, devised a way to solve Dollar General’s “book loss” problem.  
Specifically, the IBM BUE proposed that IBM   would purchase the old Omron equipment for 
approximately $11 million.  By selling the equipmen t at that price, Dollar General would avoid 
most of the negative consequences of having to  write off the book value of the equipment that 
would have occurred if it simply replaced the ol d registers with the new IBM equipment.  The 
proposed “purchase,” however, was not a bona fide  transaction because, among other reasons, 
IBM’s purchase price for the Omron equipment was repaid to IBM by an offsetting increase in the 
amount that Dollar General was to pay for the  new IBM equipment.  In addition, although IBM 
agreed to buy the Omron equipm ent for more than Dollar Genera l was going to pay for the new 
IBM registers, IBM knew that th e Omron equipment was worthless, IBM intended to destroy it, 
and ultimately IBM never took possession of any       of the sales registers.  Nevertheless, the 

                                                 
1
              The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
                                                2 
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

“purchase” occurred and Dollar General remo  ved the Omron equipment from its books and 
minimized the negative impact on its earnings in fiscal year 2000.   
 
              In addition, IBM in 2000 and 2001 maintained inaccurate books and records as a result of 
numerous discrete revenue recognition errors (many of which were errors with respect to the 
timing of recognition as between quarters and   which were discovered and corrected by IBM) 
totaling approximately $577 million in revenues over that two-year period. 
 
B.     RESPONDENT AND RELATED ENTITY
 
        IBM, headquartered in Armonk, New York, and incorporated in New York, manufactures 
and sells computer services, hardware and software.  IBM stock is registered under Section 12(b) 
of the Exchange Act and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange.   
 
       Dollar General Corporation, a Tennessee corporation headquartered in Goodlettsville, 
Tennessee, is a discount retailer of general    merchandise.  Dollar General’s common stock is 
registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and is listed on the New York Stock 
Exchange. 2
 
C.     THE OMRON TRANSACTION
 
              1.           IBM Proposal For An Accelerated Roll-Out Is Rejected 
 
        In 1999, Dollar General decided to lease new  electronic cash registers from IBM’s Retail 
Store Solutions business unit to replace Dollar Gene ral’s old Omron-brand cash registers over a 
multi-year roll-out period.  In November of 20 00, IBM, through the IBM BUE, suggested that 
Dollar General accelerate the roll-out of the new electronic cash registers by leasing all the 4,224 
remaining registers under the agreement before December 31, 2000.  IBM offered to lease the new 
equipment to Dollar General for approximately $10 million, which included a one million dollar 
discount to encourage Dollar General to agree to  the deal.  After receiving the proposal, Dollar 
General concluded that the negative impact on Do llar General’s earnings for its fiscal year 2000 
from writing off the remaining book value for the Omron registers     would outweigh the benefit of 
the transaction.   
                                                 
2
       On April 7, 2005, the SEC filed a settled enforcement action against Dollar General and certain of its 
former officers and employees in the  United States District Court for th e Middle District of Tennessee.   Securities 
and Exchange Commission v. Dollar General Corp., et al., Civil Action No. 3:05-0283.  Dollar General consented to 
the entry of a final judgment permanently enjoining it from violating the antifraud, internal controls, books and 
records, and periodic reporting provisions of the federal securities laws, speci fically, Section 17(a) of the Securities 
Act of 1933 and Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 
13a-11, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder.  The Commission ’s complaint included allegations relating to the Dollar 
General transaction with IBM that is one of the subjects of this Order. 
                                                  3 
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
---------------------Page 4---------------------

        
       Dollar General rejected IBM’s offer on November 29, 2000, explai ning to the IBM BUE 
that it was not worth it to Dollar General to acquire the new registers in 2000 because of the 
additional expense Dollar General would incur in  writing off the remaini ng book value of the 
company’s old equipment.  In ternal communications at IBM make clear that IBM understood 
Dollar General’s accounting issue, specifically the write-off of the remain ing book value, was a 
significant obstacle to completing the December 2000 roll-out of the IBM equipment. 
        
       2.           IBM Proposes “Purchase” of Omron Registers To Solve Dollar General’s  
  Accounting Concern 
        
       On behalf of IBM, the IBM BUE devised and proposed a solution to, as he wrote in an e-
mail, “help fix [Dollar General’s] Omron book     value issue.”  Specifically, IBM offered to 
“purchase” the Omron registers from Dollar Ge neral to accomplish the goal of helping Dollar 
General to minimize the impact of writing off the book value of Dollar General’s Omron registers.  
On November 30, 2000, the IBM BUE contacted Dollar General’s Treasurer and Dollar General’s 
vice president of information services to di  scuss a proposal to ad   dress Dollar General’s 
“accounting concerns.”  The proposal was that Dollar General lease, by December 31, 2000, all of 
the new equipment then currently scheduled to be leased in future years.  If Dollar General agreed, 
IBM would “purchase” the Omron registers for a specified amount and would offset that purchase 
price by increasing the price Dollar General   would pay to lease the new IBM registers by 
approximately the same amount.  Initially, the proposal was that the Omron purchase price would 
be repaid immediately by Dollar General; ultimately, IBM agreed that its “purchase price” would 
be repaid over time by Dollar General as part of the financing arrangements for the new 
equipment.   
        
        At the same time that IBM agreed to “pur chase” the Omron registers, the IBM BUE and 
various other IBM personnel knew that the Omron equipment was worthless.  For example, an 
IBM Asset Manager had determined by December 5, 2000, that the Omron registers had no value 
to IBM and communicated this to   an IBM Client Manager.  The IBM Client Manager also 
understood that IBM was going to dispose of the  Omron equipment it was planning to purchase 
from Dollar General.  In addition, an IBM Business Operations Manager for the North American 
sales team for IBM’s Retail Store Solutions checked with an IBM contractor to see if there was any 
market value for the Omron registers.  The contractor told the IBM Business Operations Manager 
that there was no domestic resale value for the equipment.  Finally, the IBM BUE ultimately told 
Dollar General that the Omron registers were worthless to IBM and that IBM intended to destroy 
them. 
        
       IBM allowed Dollar General to set the “purchase” price for the       equipment.  After 
considering the book value of the  Omron registers, Dollar General determined that the best price 

                                               4 
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
---------------------Page 5---------------------

would be between $10 million and $11 million and co mmunicated that to IBM.  Thus, IBM was 
asked to pay as much or more  for the worthless Om ron registers as IBM had proposed Dollar 
General would pay for the new IBM equipment. 
        
       The IBM BUE and others at IBM also understood from the outset that the purchase price it 
proposed to pay for the older registers would not be at risk beca use it would be repaid by Dollar 
General in the form of an increased lease price  for the new equipment.   In effect, there was no 
“purchase” of Omron equipment; instead the amount was to be a loan from IBM to Dollar General.  
Internal IBM documents make clear the relationship between the Omron purchase price and the 
offsetting price increase for IBM equipment.  For example, in a December 3, 2000, email, the IBM 
BUE described the new price for the IB      M equipment as $20,530,000 – over double the 
approximately $10 million originally contemplat ed.  The new purchase price now took into 
account the price of the Omron equipment, which, at that time, was specified in the email as 
$10,030,000. 
        
       The entire transaction was to be financed by IBM.  The financing terms for Dollar General 
were to involve “one payment of $10,030,000 in February 2001, and the rest [of the $20,530,000] 
deferred with a payment start date of August 2001.”  Under these terms, the portion of the purchase 
price attributed to the Omron equipment would be promptly reimbursed, while the amount Dollar 
General owed on the new IBM equipment would be  financed over a longer period.  Moreover, 
during the course of negotiations, there was a ne xus between the price of the Omron equipment 
and the final price.  For example, in a December 15, 2000 email written by the IBM BUE, he 
explained that since Dollar General was “now asking for the $10,030,000 to go to $11,030,000, we 
will need to do a similar analysis for $19,620,480 + $1,000,000 more in Omron for a new total of 
$20,620,480 financed.” 
        
       It was clear to certain IBM   and Dollar General personnel th at the only reason for the 
purported purchase of the Omron equipment was to solve Dollar General’s accounting issues.  The 
IBM BUE, for example, wrote   in a December 3, 2000 email   that “a buyback of the Omron 
equipment will erase the book loss issue, removing this as an obstacle to a more rapid roll-out.”  In 
the same email, the IBM BUE also stated that the proposed purchase should “significantly reduce 
or eliminate any negative P&L issues, and remove the lurking book loss issue.”  In turn, as Dollar 
General evaluated the offer, the company was seeking to determine whether the new proposal put 
Dollar General in a better position than it would ha ve been if it held to the original roll-out 
schedule.   In a December 5, 2000 email, the IBM  BUE wrote:  “The Customer is evaluating two 
things.  Can we help fix their Omron book value issue (which we can and have already agreed to) 
and what is the comparative [net present value] of our best offer in December versus their current 
plan of acquiring [the equipment] . . . .” 
        

                                               5 
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       In addition, completing the  Omron “purchase” would incr ease IBM’s earnings for the 
quarter by allowing it to close the accelerated ro ll-out transaction.  The IBM BUE wrote in an 
email that “this would be quite a nice deal to put this much business this far forward at a time when 
IBM desperately needs to show revenue growth.”  In addition, the IBM BUE had a direct incentive 
to close the deal.  His annual b onus was based in part on the tota l revenue from the sales “price” 
for the new IBM equipment (which was artificially  inflated to offset th e purchase price for the 
Omron transaction).  Specifically, almost 50% of the IBM BUE’s bonus for 2000 was attributable 
to the Dollar General transaction.   
        
       3.           IBM and Dollar General Finalize Contract Terms 
        
       After negotiating the terms of the financing an d other arrangements over the course of a 
few weeks, IBM and Dollar Gene  ral finalized the two-part tr  ansaction by agreements dated 
December 22, 2000.  Under one agreement, IBM agreed to purchase 14,070 Omron registers from 
Dollar General for $11,098,672, with payment to be made to Dollar General no later than January 
31, 2001 – just two days before the end of Dolla r General’s fiscal year 2000.  On the same day, 
Dollar General signed a separate agreement co mmitting the company to  lease 4,224 new IBM 
registers for approximately $21 million.  That purchase price was to be financed by IBM Credit 
Corporation and would be repaid by Dollar General over five years, starting in January 2001.   
        
       4.           IBM “Buys” the Omron Registers 
        
       IBM and the IBM BUE understood that Dollar General needed to receive the check for the 
sale of the Omron registers by the end of Januar y 2001 to achieve the desired accounting result.  
The written agreement also required that IBM make the payment to  Dollar General no later than 
January 31, 2001.  On January 1 7, 2001, the IBM BUE sent an internal email to several IBM 
employees seeking to have the check for the Omron registers issued.  In the email, he stated:  “It is 
critical that this check gets cut ASAP to Dollar  General for $11,216,995.  Their fiscal year ends 
01/31/01 and this must be in house at DG.”   
        
       Notably, the $11.2 million amount referenced in the IBM   BUE’s email includes both the 
purchase price of $11,098,672 and an additional $118,323 that IBM was paying to cover the cost 
of disposal of the very equipment that it was purchasing.  Although various IBM personnel saw the 
check request and one individual noted that the whole transaction seemed “a little peculiar and may 
be worth asking . . . questions [about],” the check request was approved and the check was issued 
to Dollar General shortly before January 31, 2001, two days before the end of Dollar General’s 
fiscal year 2000. 
        

                                               6 
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

       Despite the purchase agreement,  almost two years later in la te 2002, none of the Omron 
registers purportedly purchased by IBM had le     ft Dollar General’s custody, nor were they 
destroyed.  They were stored in Dollar General distribution centers awaiting disposal. 
        
       5.           IBM and Dollar General’s Respective Accounting for the Transaction 
        
             Dollar General received significant accounting benefits from the Omron transaction.  
Dollar General utilized the Omron purchase pa  yment from IBM to improperly reduce certain 
expenses for its fiscal year 2000,   thereby inflating its reported  pre-tax income.  Specifically, 
Dollar General improperly reduced the loss on Om  ron registers accounted for as having been 
removed from service in 2000.  
 
             The Omron transaction also served to enable Dollar General to avoid addressing an 
unrelated accounting issue pertaining to the Omr on equipment – specifically, the fact that Dollar 
General had not sufficiently depreciated the Om ron equipment during fiscal year 2000.  At the 
time Dollar General entered into the multi-year agreement with IBM to replace the Omron 
equipment, Dollar General should have reasse  ssed the remaining useful lives of the Omron 
equipment and accelerated the de preciation on that equipment c onsistent with the equipment 
removal and replacement schedule.  In the fo    urth quarter 2000, at the time Dollar General 
entered into the Omron transaction with IBM,   Dollar General had not  depreciated the Omron 
equipment sufficiently (by approximately $7.9   million) during fiscal year 2000.  The Omron 
transaction, which removed the a ssets from the books, alleviated  the need for Dollar General to 
face this problem.  Utilizing the cash received   from IBM for the Omron equipment, Dollar 
General instead minimized the loss on disposal of Omron registers and did not incur a substantial 
depreciation charge.   
 
       By improperly reducing expenses that Dollar  General should have recognized, the net 
effect of Dollar General’s accoun ting for the sham payment from IBM was to increase Dollar 
General’s pretax income for fiscal 2000 by $7.1   million, or 6.5% of Dollar General’s restated 
pretax fiscal year 2000 income.   
        
       IBM, in contrast, ultimately accounted for the transaction by netting out the impact of the 
“purchase” of Omron equipment.   IBM treated the purchase price  for the Omron registers as a 
trade-in credit against the full purchase price of the new IBM equipment.  IBM, however, did have 
to undertake unusual journal entries in order to accomplish this task because the transactions were 
separately documented.  Consequently, as the IBM BUE wrote in a December 21, 2000 email, the 
“[l]edger amount to IBM Retail Store Solutions” wa s the net of the full purchase price, less the 
Omron price, for a total of appr oximately $10.1 million.  As st ructured, however, certain IBM 
employees received credit for the full $21 m     illion purchase price for purposes of bonus 

                                               7 
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

calculations.  Consequently, certain IBM employ ees, including the IBM BUE, received bonuses 
that were higher than they would have been but for the fraudulent Omron transaction.    
 
D.      IBM’S INACCURATE BOOKS AND RECORDS 
 
              As a result of numerous discrete incidents taking place in various IBM units, divisions, and 
wholly-owned subsidiaries in the United States, and in at least  23 other countries, IBM made at 
least $200 million in revenue recognition errors in its fiscal year 2000, and at least $377 million in 
revenue recognition errors in its fiscal year 2001.  
 
              At least $281 million of this revenue involved the use of side letters, a substantial portion of 
which were side letters in which IBM granted rights of return.  For example, in December 2000, 
several executives, managers, and employees of   IBM Retail Store Solutions (the same unit 
involved in the Omron transaction) and Business Partner units caused IBM to improperly 
recognize $9.3 million in revenue in  connection with the sale of   22,680 printers to a business 
partner.  Revenue recognition was improper at the time because, among other reasons, IBM Retail 
Store Solutions employees had granted a full right of return for the equipment in a side letter to the 
business partner. 3
                     This $9.3 million in improperly recogni zed revenue allowed the Retail Store 
Solutions unit to exceed its full-year sales target by $2 million. 
  
              At least $171 million of this revenue recogni zed in error for IBM’s fiscal years 2000 and 
2001 related to premature revenue recognition of  product stored in warehouses not controlled by 
IBM’s customers.  At least $100  million of this amount related  to IBM’s Retail Store Solutions 
unit and its use of IBM-controlled warehouses to store merchandise that had not been shipped to 
the end-customer but for which IBM nonetheless recognized revenue.        4
 

                                                 
3
               The mere fact that a side letter was  used to grant a right of return to a customer and that the right is termed 
a “full right” indicates a more-than-normal likelihood that the sale might be reversed and the product returned.  In 
such a situation, the probability that  the product will be returned and the amount of returns cannot be reasonably 
estimated, and thus the sale can  not be recognized.  Financial Accounting Standard (“FAS”) No. 48, Revenue 
Recognition When Right of Return Exists , includes, as a criterion for recogniz ing revenue when the right of return 
exists, that “the amount of future returns can be reasonably estimated.” 
4
               SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101,  Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements , states, “The staff 
believes that revenue generally is realized or realizab le and earned when . . . [among other criteria] delivery has 
occurred or services have been rendered.”  See also Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts No. 5, Recognition 
and Measurement in Financial Statements of Business Enterprises  (stating that “if a sale or cash receipt (or both) 
precedes…delivery…, revenues may be recognized as earned by production and delivery”).  Under the 
circumstances in this case, it was improper for IBM to recognize revenue at a time when it had not actually delivered 
the product. 
                                                    8 
                                                     
                                                     
                                                     
                                                     
                                                     
---------------------Page 9---------------------

       The revenue recognition errors we re, in many cases, errors w ith respect to the timing of 
recognition as between quarters.  In most cases, the revenue recognition errors were discovered and 
corrected by IBM in advance of the Commission’s investigation. 
 
E.     LEGAL DISCUSSION
 
              1.           IBM Caused Dollar General’s Fraud 
 
              Section 21C of the Exchange Act provides that the Commission may order any person who 
is or was a cause of a violation of any provision of the Exchange Act, due to an act or omission the 
person knew or should have known  would contribute to the violati on, to cease and desist from 
causing such violations.   Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder proscribe a 
variety of fraudulent practices in connection with the purchase or sale of securities.  Violations of 
Section 10(b) and Rule 10b-5 occur when an issuer makes material misstatem   ents or omissions in 
periodic reports filed with the Commission, including financial statements, and trading thereafter 
occurs in the issuer's securities. SEC v. Texas Gulf Sulphur, 401 F.2d 833, 860-862 (2d Cir. 1968), 
cert. denied, 394 U.S. 976 (1969);  SEC v. Great American Indus. , 407 F.2d 453 (2d Cir.),  cert. 
denied, 395 U.S. 920 (1968). 
 
              The Supreme Court, in interpreting the securitie s laws, has held that a fact is material if 
there is a "substantial likelihood that the . . . fact would have been viewed by the reasonable 
investor as having significantly altered the `total mix' of information made available."  TSC Indus. 
v. Northway, Inc., 426 U.S. 438, 449 (1976); see also Basic, Inc. v. Levinson, 485 U.S. 224 (1988).  
Information regarding the financial condition  of a company is presumptively material.   SEC v. 
Blavin, 760 F.2d 706, 711 (6 th Cir. 1985).  Even financial mi sstatements that are not large in 
magnitude may be material if they are made inte ntionally to manage a company's income, hide a 
failure to meet analysts' expectations or sustain an earnings trend.   See Ganino v. Citizens Utility 
Co., 228 F.3d 154, 166 (2d Cir. 2000). 
  
            Dollar General violated Section 10(b) and Rule 10b-5 thereunder by fraudulently 
overstating its fiscal year 2000 income with the  benefit of the Omron transaction.  IBM was a 
cause of Dollar General’s violations because IBM knew or should have known that its creation of 
and participation in the Omron transaction to  solve Dollar General’s “book loss” problem would 
contribute to Dollar General’s securities fraud.  IBM knew the Omron purchase transaction was not 
a bona fide sale because the Omron equipment was  worthless, would be destroyed, and that the 
purchase “price” was really a loan from IBM to Do llar General that would be repaid through the 
inflated price for IBM’s new eq  uipment.  In addition, IBM      knew explicitly that it was an 
accounting impact on Dollar General’s earnings that was the obstacle in completing the transaction 
– and IBM agreed to participate in a transaction that would solve that  accounting problem.  By 
engaging in the transaction with Dollar General, IBM was a cause of Dollar General’s fraud. 

                                                9 
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

        
              2.           IBM Caused Dollar General’s Books and Records and      
 Reporting Violations 
 
              Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act requires issuers with securities registered under Section 
12 of the Exchange Act to file with the Commission such information and documents as required 
to keep reasonably current the information and documents required to be included in or filed with 
an application or registration statement.  The re quirement that issuers file such information and 
documents necessarily embodies the requirement that such reports be true and correct.  See Great 
Sweet Grass Oils, Ltd., 37 S.E.C. 683,  684 n.1 (1957), aff’d, 256 F.2d 893 (D.C. Cir. 1958);  see 
also SEC v. IMC Int’l, 384 F. Supp. 889, 893 (N.D. Tex. 1974) (“The reporting provisions of the 
Exchange Act are clear and unequ ivocal, and they are satisfied only by the filing of complete, 
accurate, and timely reports.”), aff’d, 505 F.2d 733 (5th
                                                       Cir. 1974).  Rule 13a-11 requires issuers to 
file current reports on Form 8-K.  Rule 12b-20 further requires that such reports contain any further 
material information necessary to make the required statements, in the light of the circumstances 
under which they are made, not misleading.  Financia l statements in Commission filings that do 
not comply with GAAP are presumed to be        misleading. Regulation  S-X, 17 C.F.R. § 210.4-
01(a)(1).  No showing of scienter is required to violate Section 13(a).                                       See SEC v. McNulty, 137 
F.3d 732, 740-741 (2d Ci r. 1998).  A person may be a cause   of a non-scienter based violation 
through negligent conduct that contributes to the violation.   See KPMG, LLP  v. SEC , 289 F.3d 
109, 120 (D.C. Cir. 2002).  
 
              Dollar General violated Section 13(a) of  the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-11 and 12b-20 
thereunder by filing inaccurate Forms 8-K on January 23, 2001 and February 28, 2001 relating to 
Dollar General’s fiscal 2000 earnings.  These reports were inaccurate because they included 
overstated earnings as a result of the Omron transaction.  IBM was a cause of Dollar General’s 
violations because it knew or should have known that it was contributing to Dollar General’s 
reporting of inaccurate financial statements by participating in the sham Omron transaction. 
  
              Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires Section 12 registrants to "make and keep 
books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonabl     e detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of    the issuer."  Dollar General violated Section 
13(b)(2)(A) by failing to make and keep books, records, and accounts, which accurately and fairly 
reflected the Omron transaction in reasonable de  tail.  IBM was a cause of Dollar General’s 
violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) because it knew or should have known that it was contributing to 
Dollar General’s participation in and inaccurate recording of the Omron transaction.   
 
 
 
 

                                               10 
                                                  
                                                  
                                                  
                                                  
                                                  
---------------------Page 11---------------------

              3.           IBM Violated the Books and Records Provisions of the Securities Laws 
 
             IBM violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) by failing      to make and keep books, records, and 
accounts, which accurately and fairly reflected tran sactions in reasonable detail, in IBM’s own 
books, records, and accounts for its fiscal year 2000 and fiscal year 2001, as described in section D 
above. 
 
F.      UNDERTAKING
 
        IBM undertakes, within ten (10) business days of the date of the issuance of this Order, to 
pay $7,000,000 to the Clerk of the United States District Court for the                Middle District of 
Tennessee together with a cover letter specifying that this payment shall be deposited and joined 
to the funds currently held in  SEC v. Dollar General Corporation, et al. , C.A. No. 3:05-0283.  
IBM has agreed to refer to this administrative         proceeding in the cover letter and to transmit 
photocopies of such payment and letter to Ke             vin M. Loftus, Branch   Chief, Division of 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Co           mmission, 100 F Street, N.       E., Washington, D.C. 
20549.  IBM has agreed not to seek the return of any portion of its payment.  
 
                                                    IV. 
  
              In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered the Undertaking in Section 
III. F. and remedial acts that were undertaken by Respondent. 
 
                                                     V. 
                                                       
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission  deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent IBM’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that               Respondent IBM cease and desist from 
committing or causing any   violations and any futu re violations of Sec tions 10(b), 13(a), and 
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20 and 13a-11 thereunder. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

                                                     11 
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
