---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                           BEFORE the 

                        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  59206 / January 6, 2009 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2916 / January 6, 2009 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING                                                                                                
FILE NO.  3-13327 

                                                    ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
In the Matter of                                     ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
                                                     AND IMPOSING TEMPORARY 
  R.K. DHAWAN & CO.                                  SUSPENSION PURSUANT TO RULE 
                                                     102(e)(3) OF THE COMMISSION’S 
                                                     RULES OF PRACTICE
  Respondent. 

                                       I. 

       The Securities and Exchange Commission ( “Commission”) deems it appropriate and in 
the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant 
to Rule 102(e)(3)1
                  of the Commission’s Rules of Practice against R.K. Dhawan & Co. 
(“Respondent” or “Dhawan & Co.”). 

                                             II. 

       The Commission finds that: 

       A.     RESPONDENT 

              1.     Dhawan & Co. is an accounting firm with offices in New Delhi, India and 
Bangalore, India.  R.K. Dhawan, a chartered accountant in India, is the founding partner of 

1
  Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and 
without preliminary hearing, may, by order, … suspend from appearing or practicing before it any  … accountant … 
who has been by name … permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her 
misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any 
provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Dhawan & Co.  He was responsible for the reviews and audits of AremisSoft Corporation 
subsidiaries conducted by Dhawan & Co. 

                                             III. 

       B.     CIVIL INJUNCTION 

              1.     On September 23, 2008, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District 
of New York entered a final default judgment against Dhawan & Co., permanently enjoining it 
from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 10(b) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Exchange Act Rule 10b-5 and from 
aiding and abetting future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the 
Exchange Act, and Exchange Act Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13b2-1.  Securities and Exchange 
Commission v. Savvides & Partners/PKF Cyprus, Pavlos Meletiou, et. al., 06 CV 2223 (CSH) 
(S.D.N.Y.). 

              2.     The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Dhawan 
and Co. issued audit reports on nine AremisSoft subsidiaries in 2000 signed by its partner 
Dhawan that falsely stated that the audits were conducted in accordance with U.S. Generally 
Accepted Auditing Standards (“GAAS”) and that the AremisSoft subsidiaries’ financial 
statements were presented in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
(“GAAP”).  The complaint further alleged that the companies’ false financial statements were 
included as part of AremisSoft’s consolidated financial statements filed with AremisSoft’s year 
2000 Form 10-K.  The complaint alleged that five of the nine companies were never in fact 
acquired by AremisSoft and four were shells with insignificant assets, revenues, and income.  
The complaint also alleged that Dhawan had no training or experience in U.S. GAAS or U.S. 
GAAP. 

                                             III. 

       Based upon the foregoing, the Commission finds that a court of competent jurisdiction 
has permanently enjoined Dhawan & Co. from violating the Federal securities laws within the 
meaning of Rule 102(e)(3)(i)(A) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  In view of these 
findings, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest that Dhawan & Co. be 
temporarily suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant. 

       IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Dhawan & Co. be, and hereby is, temporarily suspended 
from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant.  This Order shall be 
effective upon service on the Respondent. 

       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Dhawan & Co. may within thirty days after service of 
this Order file a petition with the Commission to lift the temporary suspension.  If the 
Commission within thirty days after service of the Order receives no petition, the suspension 
shall become permanent pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(ii). 

       If a petition is received within thirty days after service of this Order, the Commission 
shall, within thirty days after the filing of the petition, either lift the temporary suspension, or set 

                                              2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

the matter down for hearing at a time and place to be designated by the Commission, or both.  If 
a hearing is ordered, following the hearing, the Commission may lift the suspension, censure the 
petitioner, or disqualify the petitioner from appearing or practicing before the Commission for a 
period of time, or permanently, pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(iii). 

       This Order shall be served upon Dhawan & Co. by registered mail at its last known 
address. 

       By the Commission. 

       Elizabeth                                              M. Murphy 
       S                                              ecretary 

                                                3

