---------------------Page 1---------------------

                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                          Before the  
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No.  55039 / January 3, 2007 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No.  2531 / January 3, 2007 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-11714 

                            : 
                           : 
In the Matter of              ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           : 
                              REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
                           : 
David A. Hori, CPA            BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT  
                           : 
                           : 
                           
        

       On October 20, 2004, David A. Hori ("Hori") was denied the privilege of appearing or 
practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public administrative 
proceedings instituted by the Commission against him pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the 
Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                  This order is issued in response to Hori’s application for 
reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant. 

       Hori was found to have engaged in improper professional conduct in connection with 
performing the reviews and audits of the financial statements filed by Gemstar-TV Guide 
International, Inc. (“Gemstar”) from the quarter ended September 30, 1999 through the fiscal 
year ended March 31, 2002.  During this time, Hori was employed as a senior manager for 
KPMG, LLP and participated in the audits and reviews of the financial statements of Gemstar.  
As a senior manager, Hori failed to exercise professional care and skepticism, failed to obtain 
sufficient competent evidential matter and over-relied on Gemstar’s management representations 
with respect to the audits and reviews of Gemstar’s financial statements.  In addition, Hori failed 
to take appropriate action to correct disclosures that did not comply with GAAP and were 
inconsistent with Gemstar’s financial statements.  Finally, Hori failed to render accurate audit 
reports. 

       Hori has met all of the conditions set forth in his suspension order and, in his capacity as 
an independent accountant, has stated that he will comply with all requirements of the 
                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2125 dated October 20, 2004.  Hori was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after eighteen months upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, including, but not limited to 
all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
control standards.  In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the 
preparation or review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the 
Commission, Hori attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent 
audit committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, while practicing before the Commission in this capacity.   
  
       Hori is currently subject to probation under the California Board of Accountancy that is 
scheduled to end in April, 2008.  Failure to abide by the terms of his probation could result in the 
revocation of Hori’s CPA license pending notice and an opportunity to be heard by the 
California Board of Accountancy.  Hori has attested that he will notify the Commission if he is 
found to have violated the terms of the probation.  He also has attested that he understands that 
the revocation of his CPA license could result in the revocation of the reinstatement of his 
privilege to appear or practice before the Commission as an accountant. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Hori, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the October 20, 2004 order denying 
him the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 
and that Hori, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in his 
practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission, and that Hori, by undertaking to comply with all requirements of the 
Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, including, but not limited to, 
all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
control standards, in his practice before the Commission as an independent accountant has shown 
good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 
 
 
 

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 

                                                 2
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
David A. Hori, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                            
                                            
                                                           
                                                           
                                                          Nancy M. Morris  
                                                          Secretary  
        

                                              3
