---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                              STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                       the 

                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  57380 / February 26, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2791 / February 26, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12970 

In the Matter of                              ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                              ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
      DUANE HIGGINS, CPA,                     PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                              COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
Respondent.                                   MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                              REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 

                                            I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Duane Higgins, CPA 
(“Respondent” or “Higgins”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1 

                                           II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 

1 
 Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 

      The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before 
it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds2
                                                                                that: 

A.     SUMMARY 

       This Order concerns the conduct of Duane Higgins, an audit partner at Deloitte & Touche 
LLP (“D&T”), in connection with fiscal year 2000 and 2001 audits of the financial statements of 
Delphi Corporation (“Delphi”).   On October 30, 2006, the Commission brought actions against 
Delphi and 13 individuals in connection with their role in widespread accounting violations at 
Delphi.  Higgins, then an audit partner on the Delphi audits, engaged in improper professional 
conduct as detailed below. 

B.     RESPONDENT 

       Duane Higgins, 41, a resident of Clarkston, Michigan, has been an audit partner at D&T 
since 1999 and served as the second engagement partner for the fiscal year 1999-2002 audits of 
Delphi’s financial statements.  Higgins has been licensed as a CPA in the State of Ohio since 
1992 and in the State of Michigan since 2000. 

C.     FACTS 

       1.     Higgins’ Review and Audit of the Sale and Repurchase of Precious Metals 

       In November of 2000, Delphi learned that Delphi’s former parent company would not be 
acquiring Delphi’s inventory of precious metals before year-end 2000, despite Delphi’s 
understanding that it had a commitment to do so.  Thereafter, on December 28, 2000, Delphi 
agreed to sell substantially all its precious metals inventory to a bank (“the Bank”).  On the same 
day, Delphi entered into a forward purchase agreement to acquire metals of the same specifications 
in the same quantities from the Bank for delivery on January 29, 2001.  The delivery in January 
was intended to coincide with Delphi’s postponed transfer to its former parent company of 
Delphi’s precious metals inventory.  The price specified for Delphi’s purchase of the metals in the 
forward agreement exceeded the sales price for the same quantities in the sales agreement by $3.26 
million. Under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”), the transactions should 
have been accounted for together as a financing, but Delphi accounted for the sale and purchase 
separately. Delphi recognized the disposition of the metals inventory and a $6 million gain on the 
sale in December 2000, as well as a “LIFO liquidation gain” of $54 million included in fiscal year 
2000 earnings. On January 29, 2001, Delphi repurchased the metals from the Bank as agreed.  
Delphi disclosed the last in, first out (“LIFO”) gain as part of Delphi’s yearly total LIFO gain of 
$96 million. The transactions caused the financial statements to falsely portray more income, 
2 
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other 
person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
                                               2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

greater operating cash flows and reduced inventories and contributed to results that Delphi,  in its 
Form 10-K for 2000, attributed in part to “aggressive inventory management.” 

       In November 2000, Delphi consulted Higgins about transactions that would allow Delphi 
to move the precious metals off Delphi’s balance sheet before year end and then repurchase the 
same quantity of metals in early 2001 in time to sell them to Delphi’s former parent company 
pursuant to a prior agreement.  Higgins sought the advice of a D&T partner serving as a regional 
professional practice director, regarding three alternative forms of a hypothetical precious metals 
transaction, one of which contemplated executing an agreement to sell metals at current market 
prices, and make delivery of them, contemporaneous with an agreement to repurchase the metals at 
futures market prices.  The other D&T partner concurred that this hypothetical structure could be 
accounted for as a sale followed by a separate purchase.  Because the consultation was 
hypothetical, however, it did not include all of the facts of the transactions, as discussed below.  
Delphi arranged the sale of the metals to the Bank shortly before year-end along with a 
contemporaneous agreement according to which the Bank would sell the same quantities of the 
metals back to Delphi a month later.  In the week before the agreements were executed, one or 
more drafts were shared with Higgins, and he furnished comments on the effects of one or more 
provisions on Delphi’s accounting for the transactions.   

       The arrangement nominally transferred title to the metals to the Bank, but did not transfer 
the risks of ownership. Because Delphi was committed to purchase like metals 32 days after the 
sale to the Bank at a fixed, but slightly higher price, the Bank had no market risk and was assured a 
profit. Delphi was bailee and custodian of the metals, and, as such, agreed to indemnify the Bank 
for all risks of storing the metals.  As a result, the Bank incurred risks no different than if it had 
only loaned Delphi an amount equal to the proceeds from the purported sale.  In addition, the sale 
agreement included no fixed date for physical delivery of the metals.  Although Higgins noted that 
the sale agreement gave the Bank the right to direct transfer of metals delivered by Delphi, Delphi 
had the right under the bailment agreement not to deliver the amount specified in the agreement, 
and, instead, pay cash equal to a fixed rate per troy ounce for the undelivered metals.  Conversely, 
the Bank could satisfy its delivery obligation by furnishing a bill of sale for “quantities 
constitut[ing] all of such metals remaining in the custody of [Delphi] pursuant to the bailment 
provisions” in the sale agreement.  The quantities of metals also well exceeded amounts that could 
be quickly traded at quoted prices.  Some of the metals purported to be sold pursuant to the 
agreement were in the custody of Delphi’s suppliers for their use in coating catalytic converters on 
Delphi’s behalf.  These suspect facts were not addressed sufficiently in the audit memo written by 
Higgins to document his concurrence with Delphi’s accounting for the transactions. 

       In assessing these transactions, Higgins considered SFAS No. 49, “Accounting for Product 
Financing Arrangements,” which addresses agreements where an entity sells a product to another 
entity and, in a related transaction, agrees to repurchase that product or a substantially identical 
product.  SFAS No. 49 indicates that a sale and repurchase should not be accounted for as a 
financing unless, among other things, the amounts to be paid on the repurchase “will be adjusted, 
as necessary to cover substantially all fluctuations in costs incurred by the other entity in 
purchasing and holding the product (including interest).”  Higgins believed separate treatment of 
the sale and repurchase by Delphi could be appropriate because the agreed forward purchase price 

                                                3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

was a fixed amount per troy ounce, and therefore would not fluctuate to cover the Bank’s costs.  
He did not take due note of an example in SFAS No. 49 that applies financing treatment to a sale 
and repurchase with fixed repurchase prices that were “adequate to cover all financing and holding 
costs of the other entity.” Higgins did not recognize that no adjustment of the repurchase price 
would be necessary over the 32-day period that the Bank had title to the metals.  The Bank had no 
holding costs, other than interest cost and the fixed bailment fee it paid Delphi to retain custody of 
the metals. The Bank’s assured margin on the transaction of $3.26 million equated to interest 
earned at an annualized rate of almost 20%, well in excess of any interest cost the Bank would 
reasonably incur to purchase and hold the metals. 

       In addition, Higgins’ review of a pricing analysis prepared by Delphi, which falsely 
justified the prices as being appropriately discounted from market, was deficient.  Higgins believed 
that he was sufficiently competent to evaluate the overall reasonableness of the pricing model 
developed by Delphi without consulting with capital markets experts at D&T.  Delphi’s formula 
predicted that each metal would trade at a different discount, but the sale and repurchase 
agreements indicated an identical discount for each metal.  Higgins accepted Delphi’s contrived 
calculations as evidence that the transactions occurred at fair value.  Higgins also did not question 
why the sale and repurchase prices for at least one of the metals fell outside the range that Delphi’s 
investment bank advisers considered reasonably likely. 

       Moreover, Higgins failed to revise D&T’s assessment of risk of material misstatement due 
to fraud in light of the above-described problematic aspects of the precious metals transaction.  In 
May 2000, he had assessed the risk as “normal,” but, by January 2001, Higgins should have 
realized that the risk of material misstatement was higher and conducted his audit work thereafter 
with more careful scrutiny in light of that risk. 

       For the above reasons, Higgins’ review and testing of the precious metals transaction did 
not conform to Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (“GAAS”). 

       2.	    Higgins’ Response to New Information Concerning the 
              Repurchase of Generator Cores and Batteries from the Consulting Company 

       In a December 27, 2000, transaction, Delphi purported to sell $70 million of bulk 
inventories consisting of substantially all of Delphi’s inventories of generator cores and finished 
automotive batteries to a company that was primarily engaged in providing consulting assistance to 
troubled automotive industry suppliers and automotive companies engaged in turnaround efforts 
(the “Consulting Company”). The written agreement between Delphi and the Consulting 
Company expressly stated that it constituted the entire agreement, and that any oral discussions in 
connection with the agreement were not enforceable.  The written agreement contained no 
commitment to repurchase the cores or batteries.  Nevertheless, pursuant to an oral side agreement 
made at the time of the original sale and not revealed to D&T or Higgins, Delphi purchased the 
identical inventory of cores and batteries back from the Consulting Company on January 5, 2001, 
at its original price, plus a transaction fee.  Because Delphi committed to repurchase the cores and 
batteries at a price that covered the Consulting Company’s costs and paid it a fee, GAAP required 
the arrangement to be accounted for as a product financing under SFAS No. 49, but Delphi 

                                               4

---------------------Page 5---------------------

improperly accounted for the transactions as a separate sale and purchase.  Delphi did not 
recognize any revenue or direct profit on the sale, but nevertheless recognized $27 million in LIFO 
inventory liquidation gains, which were included by Delphi as part of its year-end disclosure of 
$96 million in LIFO gains. 

       In connection with D&T’s annual audit of Delphi’s financial statements, Higgins reviewed 
the Consulting Company sales agreement and concluded that its terms were not abnormal and that 
Delphi had no obligation to repurchase the inventory, either written or oral (per Delphi 
representations). 

       Later, however, likely in the course of D&T’s review of Delphi’s first quarter 2001 
financial statements, in April or May 2001, Higgins became aware that at least a significant portion 
of the generator cores sold in the final days of 2000 had been repurchased during the first quarter.  
As part of his quarterly review, the lead D&T engagement partner asked senior members of 
Delphi’s management why a repurchase had occurred, and was told that Delphi had changed its 
view as to its need for possession of the cores in light of its plans regarding the sale of the 
generator business. Delphi management also orally reaffirmed to the lead D&T engagement 
partner that there had been no prior repurchase commitment to the Consulting Company.  The lead 
D&T engagement partner did not document his consideration of this issue, and performed no 
additional procedures.  Higgins relied on the lead D&T engagement partner’s inquiry of Delphi 
management concerning the matter. 

       The response of Higgins to the discovery of inventory repurchased in the first quarter so 
soon after the year-end bulk sale, particularly in the face of a prior management representation that 
there was no obligation to repurchase the inventory, was inadequate.  It indicated insufficient 
concern about facts that could have contradicted important management representations or 
otherwise indicated the possible presence of fraud.  Higgins recalls knowing that “some” inventory 
was repurchased at some time in the first quarter, but had no recollection that the sale or repurchase 
also involved batteries.  Higgins had a duty in those circumstances to learn more about the 
unexpected repurchase so that the inquiries of management could be sufficiently probative, but he 
did not seek out additional facts.  D&T’s work papers showed that the repurchase comprised all, or 
substantially all, of the original bulk sale of both generator cores and batteries.  The invoice for the 
repurchase, which D&T neither requested nor received, showed that it occurred nine days after the 
sale.  The invoice price, compared to the original sale price, showed that the purported value of the 
inventory increased over those nine days (representing the fee to the Consulting Company).  In 
addition, Delphi’s records reveal that Delphi itself had provided the cash with which the 
Consulting Company purchased the inventories.  In light of facts which were known to him, 
GAAS required Higgins to make additional inquiries or conduct additional procedures. 

D. VIO      LATIONS

        Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides that the Commission may temporarily or permanently deny an 
accountant the privilege of appearing or practicing before it, if it finds, after notice and opportunity 
for hearing, that the accountant engaged in “improper professional conduct.”  Such improper 
professional conduct includes, as applicable here, negligent conduct, defined as “repeated instances 

                                               5

---------------------Page 6---------------------

of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards, that 
indicate a lack of competence to practice before the Commission.”  Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(A)-(B). 
Higgins failed (i) to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to afford a reasonable basis for 
the opinion rendered, Auditing Standards §AU 326, (ii) to exercise due professional care in the 
planning and performance of the audit, Auditing Standards § AU 320, and (iii) in performing the 
audit to identify material departures from GAAP in the financial statements, Auditing Standards § 
AU 410. As a result of the actions detailed above, for Delphi’s fiscal year 2000 and 2001, Higgins 
engaged in improper professional conduct on the precious metals and batteries and cores 
transactions. 

E.     FINDINGS 

       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Higgins engaged in improper 
professional conduct pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Higgins’ Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     Higgins is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant. 

       B.     After two years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 

              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 

                      (a)    Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 

                                               6

---------------------Page 7---------------------

of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision;

               (c)           Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      (d)    Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 

       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 

 By       the Commission. 

       N                                              ancy M. Morris
       S                                             ecretary 

                                                7

