---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                      the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  54172 / July 19, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2460 / July 19, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12369 
 
                                            ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
In the Matter of                            DESIST PROCEEDINGS, MAKING 
                                            FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE-
      L. MICHAEL HART,                      AND-DESIST ORDER PURSUANT TO 
                                            SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
Respondent.                                 EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
 
 
 
 
                                                
 
                                           I. 
  
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against L. Michael Hart (“Hart” or “Respondent”).   
 
                                          II. 
                                            
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to 
Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               III. 
                                                  
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
                                           Respondent 
 
       1.      Hart, 58, is a resident of Fort Pierce, Florida.  He was Endocare, Inc.’s director of  
sales for the Southeastern region throughout the relevant period and was an employee of Endocare 
from July 1, 1999 to June 3, 2004.  Prior to joining Endocare in 1999, Hart had almost twenty 
years of sales and/or managerial experience in the healthcare industry.  His experience ranged from 
selling disposable healthcare products and healthcare software to managing pharmacies and sales 
associates. 
 
                                         Relevant Entity 
 
       2.      Endocare, Inc. is a Delaware corporation, with its principal place of business in 
Irvine, California.  Endocare’s common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to 
Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and was listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market until January 16, 
2003, when it was delisted for Endocare’s failure to file its periodic reports with the Commission.  
Endocare’s common stock currently trades in the Pink Sheets. 
 
                                          Background 
        
              3.           The conduct described in this order concerns the reporting of false financial 
information and other misleading disclosures caused by an Endocare regional sales manager in 
Endocare’s reports filed with the Commission for fiscal years 2001 and 2002.  Endocare develops 
and distributes medical devices for use in the treatment of various types of cancers and urological 
ailments.  Endocare generates most of its revenue from the sale of its cryocare surgical system 
(known as a “box”) and disposable probes that are used with the box in the treatment.  Throughout 
2001 and 2002, Endocare engaged in improper revenue recognition practices and improperly 
understated or delayed the recognition of expenses to inflate earnings.  These actions resulted in 
Endocare’s filing of financial statements that overstated revenue by at least 16% for fiscal year 
2001, 17% for the first quarter of 2002, and 33% for the second quarter of 2002.  Additionally, 
Endocare’s financial statements understated its pre-tax loss for 2001 by at least 20%, and falsely 
reported profits for the first two quarters of 2002, rather than substantial losses.   
 
              4.            Endocare improperly recognized revenue on box sales involving various 
contingent terms.  These transactions included improper bill-and-hold sales in which product was 
shipped to an Endocare-controlled storage facility until the equipment could be resold or until it 
generated sufficient revenues to support payment, and side letters that included indeterminate 
payment terms, continuing obligations, or certain guarantees regarding minimum procedures.  As 
Endocare’s Southeast regional sales director during the relevant time, Hart was involved in 
negotiating and executing several of these side letters with customers.   
 
                                                  

                                                2
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                           Side Letters 
 
              5.           In September 2001, Hart was involved in negotiating a box sale to a physician in 
Gainesville, Florida that contained an undisclosed side letter.  Specifically, Hart and Endocare’s 
chief executive officer (“CEO”) contacted the physician and requested  that he take delivery of a 
box for $250,000 pending the ultimate sale to the physician’s associate, who was interested in 
forming a physician partnership to purchase a box.  This contingency was not included on the 
purchase order.  The box was shipped to Endocare’s storage facility in Florida, where it remained 
through October 2002.  Endocare recognized revenue on the box for the quarter ended September 
30, 2001, which was improper given the contingency. 
 
              6.           In December 2001, Hart executed a side letter with a physician in Celebration, 
Florida regarding a box purchase.  Endocare’s CEO initiated the negotiations with the physician 
and then directed Hart to send the physician a purchase order and side-letter agreement.  Hart’s 
side letter to the physician stated that the physician was purchasing the unit on behalf of a 
physician-owned company and that the company was still in the process of formation.  The side 
letter also stated that Endocare would assist in the formation and resale of the box into existing 
targeted or future partnerships and that when the company was formed, the physician could 
transfer some or all ownership of the box to the company.  The contingency was not included on 
the purchase order.  Endocare recognized revenue on the box for the quarter ended December 31, 
2001, which was improper given the contingency. 
 
              7.           In March 2002, Hart provided a side letter to the representative/managing partner of 
a South Florida venture partnership that memorialized their discussions regarding the sale of a box 
for $250,000.  The side letter stated that the box being sold to the partnership’s representative was 
intended for another physician and that Endocare would pay this representative a $25,000 
commission upon the resale of the unit.  Endocare then shipped the box to the Endocare storage 
facility in Florida.  Hart did not include the contingency on the purchase order.  Endocare 
recognized revenue on the box for the quarter ended March 31, 2002, which was improper given 
the contingency. 
    
              8.           In June 2002, Hart negotiated the sale of a box to a partnership that included five 
limited partners and one general partner, in a transaction that included a side letter committing 
Endocare to help resell the box.  The purchase order was only signed by the limited partner 
physicians, not representatives of the general partner in the venture.  The partnership agreement 
included a clause whereby the physicians were able to sell back their interest in the partnership to 
the general partner in the event the venture failed.  Hart knew about the physicians’ option to 
withdraw from the partnership.  Endocare recognized revenue on the box for the quarter ended 
June 30, 2002, which was improper given the contingency. 
 
                                        Legal Discussion 
        
       9.           Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder require 
issuers of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act, such as Endocare, to 
file with the Commission accurate annual and quarterly reports.  An issuer violates these 

                                                3
---------------------Page 4---------------------

provisions if it files a report that contains materially false or misleading information.  SEC v. 
Falstaff Brewing Corp., 629 F.2d 62, 72 (D.C. Cir. 1980); SEC v. Savoy Indus., Inc., 587 F.2d 
1149, 1165 (D.C. Cir. 1978).  Rule 12b-20 under the Exchange Act similarly requires that these 
reports contain any material information necessary to make the required statements made in the 
reports not misleading.  Moreover, Regulation S-X requires that financial statements filed with 
the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act be prepared in accordance with 
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.  Otherwise, such financial statements shall be 
presumed inaccurate. 
        
       10.        Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires reporting companies registered 
pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act to “make and keep books, records, and accounts, 
which in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions . . . of the issuer.”  
        
       11.        Section 21C of the Exchange Act provides that the Commission may order any 
person who is or was a cause of a violation of any provision of the Exchange Act, due to an act 
or omission the person knew or should have known would contribute to the violation, to cease 
and desist from committing or causing such violations.  
        
       12.        Hart caused Endocare’s violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder by providing undisclosed side 
letters to customers that contained contingent terms that Endocare would help resell the 
equipment.  Hart’s failure to include the contingent terms in the purchase orders caused 
Endocare to improperly recognize revenue and file misleading reports. 
                                                 
                                         Undertakings 
 
              13.        Respondent has undertaken to cooperate fully with the Commission and its staff 
in connection with this action and any related judicial or administrative proceeding or 
investigation commenced by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party.  In 
particular, Respondent agrees to: (i) make himself available for interviews and appearances at 
such times and places as the staff requests upon reasonable notice; (ii) accept service and 
promptly respond to notices or subpoenas issued by the Commission for documents or testimony 
at depositions, hearings, or trials, or in connection with any related investigation by Commission 
staff; (iii) appoint Respondent’s attorney in this matter as agent to receive service of such notices 
and subpoenas; (iv) with respect to such notices and subpoenas, waives the territorial limits on 
service contained in Rule 45 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and any applicable local 
rules, provided that the party requesting the testimony reimburses Respondent's travel, lodging, 
and subsistence expenses at the then-prevailing U.S. Government per diem rates; and (v) consent 
to personal jurisdiction over Respondent in any United States District Court for purposes of 
enforcing any such subpoena. 
 
       14.        In determining whether to accept the Offer, the Commission has considered these 
undertakings. 
        

                                                4
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                                                                 IV. 
                                                                                     
            In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
            Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
              Respondent cease and desist from causing any violations and any future violations of 
Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 
thereunder. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

                                                                                   5
