---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                    UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
 before the 
                                            SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 55054 / January 8, 2007 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2533 / January 8, 2007 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12523 
                                                      
                                                       :  
 :  
 :   
        In the Matter of                                         :             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                                                     :             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
             David A. Monaghan, CPA,                 :             102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                                                     :             PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
            Respondent.                  :     IMPO                   SING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                               :      
                                               :      
____________________________________ :              
   
 
                                                         I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against David 
A. Monaghan (“Respondent” or “Monaghan”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.  1
                        
                                                          
                                                        II. 
 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.C. below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
       A.          Monaghan, age 38, is and has been a certified public accountant holding an inactive 
license to practice in the State of Missouri.  Monaghan served as the Vice President of Finance, the 
most senior financial officer for Northwestern Services Group, Inc., (“NSG”), formerly a wholly 
owned subsidiary of Northwestern Corporation (“Northwestern”), from January 2001 until June 
2002.  Monaghan served as the Vice President of Financial Planning and Reporting for NSG from 
June 2002 through July 2003.  
        
       B.          Northwestern was, at all relevant times, a Delaware corporation with its principal 
place of business in Sioux Falls, South Dakota.  Northwestern, through NSG, operated a public 
utility business serving the Upper Midwest region.  Northwestern Communications Solutions 
(“NCS”) was an operating division of NSG through June 2002.  At all relevant times, 
Northwestern’s common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and traded on the New York Stock Exchange. 
        
       C.          On December 14, 2006 a final judgment was entered against Respondent, 
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, 
and Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5 and 13b2-1 thereunder, and 
aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act 
and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-11 thereunder, in the civil action entitled Securities and 
Exchange Commission v. Bart A. Thielbar et al., Civil Action Number 06-4253 in the United 
States District Court for the District of South Dakota.   
        
       D. The Commission’s        Complaint alleged, among other things, that Respondent 
fraudulently participated in misstating the financial statements of NCS.  The Commission’s 
Complaint further alleged that after consolidation, these misstatements resulted in Northwestern 
materially overstating its income for the quarter ended December 31, 2001, as reported in its 
annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001.  Specifically, the 
Complaint alleged that Respondent instructed his subordinates to improperly reclassify 
unsubstantiated assets to goodwill rather than making appropriate charges to the income 
statement. 
        

                                               2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                    IV. 
                                                    
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
              A.          Respondent is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
              B.          After three years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                                         (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Respondent, or the registered                           public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision. 
 
                             (c)         Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, 
and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other 
than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
   (d) Respondent acknowledges                              his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
 
      

                                                  3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

         C.       The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 
 

                                                                4 
