---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                       Before the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
RELEASE NO. 56104 / July 19, 2007 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
RELEASE NO. 2647 / July 19, 2007 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12703 

________________________________________________ 
                                                       : 
In the Matter of                                       :        ORDER INSTITUTING 
                                                       :        PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIVE 
ERNST & YOUNG CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS,                   :        PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT 
and DENIS O=HOGAN, FCA.                                :        TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                       :        COMMISSION RULES OF 
                                  Respondents.         :        PRACTICE, MAKING 
                                                       :        FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                                       :        REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
________________________________________________ : 

                                            I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (ACommission@) deems it appropriate that 
public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Ernst & Young 
Chartered Accountants ("EYCA") and Denis O=Hogan (AO=Hogan@) (collectively the 
ARespondents@), pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission's Rules of Practice [17 C.F.R. 
'  201.102(e)].1 

                                           II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, each Respondent has submitted an 
Offer of Settlement (AOffers@) that the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 

1 
      Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in relevant part, that: 
             The Commission may censure a person or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
             appearing or practicing before it ... to any person who is found ... to have engaged in ... improper 
             professional conduct. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission=s jurisdiction over them and over the subject matter 
of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order 
Instituting Proceedings pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, Making 
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (AOrder@), as set forth below. 

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and the Respondents= Offers, the Commission finds 2
                                                                                      that: 

A.     SUMMARY 

       This matter concerns improper professional conduct within the meaning of Rule 
102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission's Rules of Practice by the Respondents in connection with the 
reviews and audits of SmartForce PLC (ASmartForce@ or the ACompany@) financial statements for 
the years ended December 31, 1999, 2000, and 2001 and quarterly reviews for the quarters ended 
in March 31 and June 30, 2002 (the ARestatement Period@).  EYCA received approximately 
$725,000 in fees for performing audit and review services.  

       SmartForce=s securities traded publicly on NASDAQ beginning in April 1995. 
SmartForce=s financial statements, which the Company included in its annual and quarterly 
reports during the Restatement Period, were materially false and misleading in that they 
overstated net income and revenue in some periods and understated net income and revenue in 
other periods by failing to comply with United States generally accepted accounting principles 
(AGAAP@).  SmartForce prepared these financial statements by, among other things, recognizing 
revenue improperly from multi-element arrangements, reciprocal transactions, and reseller 
agreements.  Several registration statements incorporated by reference SmartForce=s financial 
statements for the restated periods.  

       The Respondents reasonably should have known that SmartForce=s financial statements 
had not been prepared in conformity with GAAP.  EYCA nonetheless issued unqualified audit 
reports on SmartForce=s annual financial statements that opined that the Company=s financial 
statements presented fairly the consolidated financial position and results of operations of 
SmartForce in conformity with GAAP and stated that the auditor had conducted the audits in 
accordance with United States generally accepted auditing standards (AGAAS@).  The audit 

2 
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents= Offers of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                               2 

---------------------Page 3---------------------

reports were included in SmartForce=s 1999, 2000, and 2001 Forms 10-K, which were 
incorporated by reference in various Forms S-3, S-4, and S-8 registration statements.  EYCA 
issued consent letters agreeing to the incorporation by reference of its audit reports in these 
registration statements.   

       O=Hogan did not comply with GAAS in the conduct of the audits and the reviews, and 
thus engaged in improper professional conduct within the meaning of Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the 
Commission's Rules of Practice through repeated instances of unreasonable conduct.   

B.     RESPONDENTS 

       1.     EYCA is located in Ireland and is a member firm of Ernst & Young 
Global (AE&Y Global@).  EYCA employs over 800 people and holds itself out as one of the 
leading firms of auditors and business advisors in Ireland.  EYCA served as SmartForce=s 
independent accountant from 1994 until its merger with SkillSoft Corporation (“SkillSoft 
Corp.”) in September 2002.  EYCA issued unqualified audit reports on SmartForce=s December 
31, 1999, 2000 and 2001 consolidated financial statements.  In those unqualified audit reports, 
EYCA represented, among other things, (i) that it had conducted its audits of SmartForce=s 
financial statements in accordance with GAAS; and (ii) that in its opinion, based on its audits, 
the SmartForce financial statements presented fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated 
financial position and results of operations of SmartForce in conformity with GAAP.  

       2.     Denis O=Hogan, age 57, is an Irish citizen.  O=Hogan became a member of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants in Ireland (AICAI@) in 1975, which is similar to being a 
certified public accountant in the United States.3
                                                 Chartered Accountants are accounting 
professionals, some of whom are authorized to provide audit and assurance services within 
Ireland.  O=Hogan has been employed by or a partner of EYCA or its predecessor since 1978.  
O=Hogan became a member of the SmartForce engagement team around 1994 in connection with 
the Company=s preparation of the registration statement for its initial public offering (“IPO”).  
After the IPO, O=Hogan served as the concurring partner on the account until 1999, when he 
became the engagement partner.  O=Hogan remained as the engagement partner until the 
Company engaged in a merger in September 2002, after which Ernst & Young LLP (AE&Y 
LLP@) served as the Company=s auditor.  As of June 3, 2005, O=Hogan ceased working on 
engagements involving SEC registrants pending the outcome of these proceedings.  

C.     THE COMPANY 

       On September 6, 2002, SmartForce, a public limited company organized under the laws 
of the Republic of Ireland, merged with SkillSoft Corporation (which was a corporation 
organized under the laws of Delaware) and changed its name to SkillSoft PLC (ASkillSoft@). 

3 
       Members of the ICAI use the designatory letters ACA for Associate Chartered Accountant of the Institute 
and FCA for Fellow Chartered Accountant of the Institute. 

                                               3 

---------------------Page 4---------------------

Although SmartForce emerged as the surviving entity, SkillSoft Corp. was deemed the acquirer 
for accounting purposes and the former SkillSoft Corp. management took over management of 
the acquiring company.  SkillSoft maintains its principal executive offices in New Hampshire.  
SkillSoft provides an Internet-based management and technology platform for training 
courseware, seminars, and reference materials geared toward business and IT professionals.  
SkillSoft=s securities are registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the 
Exchange Act and trade on NASDAQ. 

D. 	   FACTS 

       1. 	   The Merger Announcement Between SmartForce and SkillSoft  
              Corporation and Subsequent S-4 Registration Statements 

       On June 10, 2002, SkillSoft Corp. and SmartForce issued a press release announcing that 
the two companies had signed a definitive agreement to merge in a stock-for-stock transaction.  
Shortly thereafter, SmartForce filed a registration statement on Form S-4 regarding the merger in 
which SmartForce=s financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2001 were 
incorporated by reference and included an unqualified audit report by EYCA dated January 16, 
2002.  The registration statement became effective on July 31, 2002. 

       2. 	   SkillSoft Detects the Improper Accounting Practices by SmartForce 

       Before the markets opened on November 19, 2002, SkillSoft announced that in the 
process of preparing SmartForce=s closing balance sheet, SkillSoft identified several accounting 
irregularities that would require SkillSoft to restate SmartForce=s historical financial statements 
for the three-year period ended December 31, 2001, and for the six months ended June 30, 2002. 
  Although the precise amount of the restatement was unknown at the time, SkillSoft estimated 
that SmartForce had prematurely recognized approximately $35 million to $40 million in 
revenue.  The Company also announced that it was exiting certain business lines and that 
renewals from its corporate customers had slowed.  After the announcement, SmartForce=s stock 
price fell from $4.63 per share to $3.07 per share, a drop of 33.7 percent.  

       On September 22, 2003, SkillSoft filed with the Commission a Form 8-K/A, restating 
SmartForce=s historical financial statements for the three-year period ended December 31, 2001, 
and for the six months ended June 30, 2002.  Due to the nature and severity of the accounting 
errors and irregularities, E&Y LLP, SkillSoft=s auditors, re-audited the annual financial 
statements pertaining to the Restatement Period.  In the restatement, SkillSoft corrected multiple 
accounting irregularities consisting primarily of misapplication of certain revenue recognition 
principles by SmartForce, which had resulted in an overstatement of revenue by $113.6 million 
and net income by approximately $127 million during the Restatement Period.  

                                               4 

---------------------Page 5---------------------

       3.     Accounting for Software Sales 

       GAAP requires that revenue from the sale or license of software be recognized consistent 
with AICPA Statement of Position 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition (ASOP 97-2").  SOP 97-
2 specifies the circumstances in which a company may recognize software license revenue upon 
delivery, and when a company must defer immediate revenue recognition.  Software license 
revenue is generally recognizable upon delivery under SOP 97-2 if no significant production, 
customization or modification of software is required, if the remaining undelivered elements of 
the parties' arrangement are not essential to the functionality of the software, and if the following 
four basic criteria are met: (i) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (ii) delivery has 
occurred; (iii) the vendor=s fee is fixed or determinable; and (iv) collectibility is probable.   
Paragraph 28 of SOP 97-2 provides, among other things, that Aif payment of a significant portion 
of the software licensing fee is not due until after the expiration of the license or more than 
twelve months after delivery, the licensing fee should be presumed not to be fixed or 
determinable.@  Moreover, when an arrangement involves multiple elements (e.g., software, 
upgrades, and consulting services), Paragraph 10 of SOP 97-2 requires that the fee be Aallocated 
to the various elements based on vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value, regardless of 
any separate prices stated within the contract for each element.  Vendor-specific objective 
evidence of fair value is limited to the following: 

       !      The price charged when the same element is sold separately; 

       !      For an element not yet being sold separately, the price established by management 
              having the relevant authority; it must be probable that the price, once established, 
              will not change before the separate introduction of the element into the 
              marketplace.@ 

Appendix B to SOP 97-2 states that the AICPA Accounting Standards Executive Committee 
(AcSEC) believes that the price for an element as included in a price list does not necessarily 
represent vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value (AVSOE@) for that element.  

       4.     Accounting for Non-Monetary Transactions 

       Under GAAP, accounting for non-monetary transactions should be based on the fair 
value of the assets or services involved, if it can be determined within reasonable limits.  See 
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 29, Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions (AAPB 
29").  Paragraph 25 of APB 29 states, among other things, that fair value of a non-monetary asset 
Ashould be determined by referring to estimated realizable values in cash transactions of the 
same or similar assets, quoted market prices, independent appraisals, estimated fair values of 
assets or services received in exchange, and other available evidence.@  If neither the fair value of 
a non-monetary asset transferred nor the fair value of a non-monetary asset received in exchange 
is determinable within reasonable limits, the recorded amount of the non-monetary asset 
transferred from the enterprise may be the only available measure of the transaction.  APB 29, 
para. 26. 

                                                5 

---------------------Page 6---------------------

       5.     Improper Accounting Practices by SmartForce 

       During the Restatement Period, SmartForce engaged in various improper accounting 
practices, including premature recognition of revenue from multi-element arrangements, 
improper recognition of revenue from reciprocal transactions, and premature recognition of 
revenue from reseller agreements.  As a result of these improper accounting practices, 
SmartForce overstated its revenue by $113.6 million and net income by approximately $127 
million.   

       The majority of the overstated revenue related to misapplication of the accounting 
guidance regarding VSOE and extended payment terms.  More specifically, upon partial 
delivery, SmartForce recognized revenue prematurely despite not having VSOE for any of the 
elements sold.  Similarly, SmartForce recognized revenue upon delivery from sales agreements 
that contained payment terms extending beyond 12 months even though the Company had an 
insufficient history of collecting on similar agreements without making concessions.  The 
principal consequence of these practices was that SmartForce recognized revenue sooner than it 
otherwise should have. 

       In addition, during 2001, SmartForce also entered into several reciprocal non-monetary 
transactions with its customers, whereby the Company both sold and purchased goods or 
services without sufficient evidence to support the fair value of the goods or services exchanged. 
 SmartForce recognized license revenue upon delivery of the software sold to its customer and 
recorded the acquisition from the customer as if it had been a separate, unrelated transaction.  
Instead, SmartForce should have recorded the sale and purchase as an exchange pursuant to APB 
29, such that there would have been a gain only to the extent of any net cash received where the 
fair value of the assets or services involved could not be determined.  Most of the reciprocal 
deals also included multi-elements and had extended payment terms.  Revenue recognition from 
these transactions was also improper because the Company failed to meet the requirements under 
provisions of SOP 97-2 pertaining to VSOE and extended payment terms. 

       SmartForce also recognized revenue prematurely from reseller transactions, some of 
which were non-binding agreements and some of which contained termination clauses that 
allowed the customer to terminate the agreement prior to its expiration.  For example, during the 
second and fourth quarters of 2001, SmartForce improperly recognized an aggregate of $5.5 
million of revenue from two non-binding agreements with a reseller. 

       Consequently, SmartForce=s financial statements, which were included in the Company=s 
annual and quarterly reports during the Restatement Period, were materially false and misleading 
in that they overstated net income and revenue by failing to comply with GAAP.  Several 
registration statements incorporated by reference various SmartForce financial statements for the 
restated periods. 

       6.     The Respondents= Improper Conduct 

                                               6 

---------------------Page 7---------------------

       EYCA performed the reviews and audits of SmartForce=s financial statements during the 
Restatement Period.  The auditors were responsible for reporting on whether SmartForces=s 
annual financial statements complied with GAAP and for conducting the audits and reviews in 
accordance with GAAS.  The auditors, however, failed to adequately audit SmartForce=s 
financial statements, which allowed the Company=s overstatement of its revenue and earnings 
during the Restatement Period to go undetected.   

       The members of the SmartForce engagement team did not possess adequate technical 
training and proficiency, as required under GAAS, to audit the Company=s financial statements.  
Except for O=Hogan, the SmartForce engagement team had little or no training or experience 
with software revenue recognition prior to being assigned to the SmartForce engagement.  After 
joining the SmartForce engagement team, they received limited training on GAAP.  O=Hogan, 
the audit engagement partner during the Restatement Period, was considered by EYCA 
knowledgeable with regard to software revenue recognition.  O=Hogan conducted a training 
course for EYCA=s staff on the subject of SOP 97-2 and made presentations to software 
companies that were clients of EYCA.  As discussed below, however, O=Hogan failed to take 
exception to SmartForce=s misapplication of key provisions of SOP 97-2. 

              a.     Failure to Adequately Audit Multi-Element Arrangements 

       On numerous multi-element arrangements, the auditors improperly accepted 
management=s conclusion that SmartForce had VSOE for each element of the multi-element 
arrangements and concurred with the Company=s up-front revenue recognition for the delivered 
elements.  Had the auditors adequately tested SmartForce=s determination that it had VSOE for 
each element of the multi-element arrangements, they would have discovered that such 
conclusion did not conform with GAAP.  

       SmartForce did not have VSOE for each element of its multi-element arrangements 
because (1) the elements were not sold separately, and (2) the list price was not representative of 
fair value, as the Company offered its customers significant discounts from the list price.  The 
discount percentage varied from customer to customer.  The auditors did not assess whether each 
element had been sold separately and whether such sales were sufficient to support the fair value 
of those elements.  In addition, the auditors failed to analyze properly how the size and 
variability of the discounts offered by SmartForce affected the suitability of the price list as a 
basis for VSOE. 

              b. 	   Failure to Adequately Audit Agreements 

                     with Extended Payment Terms


       In connection with numerous agreements with extended payment terms, the auditors 
improperly accepted management=s conclusions that the fees were fixed or determinable.  In 
doing so, the auditors simply accepted management=s representation that the Company had a 
history of entering into such agreements and had successfully collected on them without granting 

                                              7 

---------------------Page 8---------------------

concessions.  Had the auditors adequately tested SmartForce=s collection history for agreements 
with extended payment terms, they would have discovered that the Company did not have a 
sufficient history of collecting on such agreements without making concessions. 

              c.      Failure to Adequately Audit Reciprocal Non-Monetary Transactions 

       The auditors failed to adequately audit reciprocal non-monetary transactions between 
SmartForce and its customers.  During 2001, SmartForce engaged in several reciprocal non-
monetary transactions with certain customers.  In these transactions SmartForce simultaneously 
sold and purchased products or services from the same customer, or the Company and the 
customer agreed to sell each other=s products.  SmartForce recognized the total amount from 
such sales as revenue. 

       Had the auditors adequately audited the non-monetary transactions, they would have 
discovered that SmartForce did not determine the fair value for such transactions, and 
accordingly, that the Company had improperly recognized revenue on those transactions.  On 
some occasions, the auditors also failed to identify that the transaction was part of a reciprocal 
arrangement and thus failed to consider the applicability of APB 29. 

              d.      Failure to Adequately Audit Non-Binding Agreements 

       During late June 2001, Smartforce entered into a letter agreement with a reseller, 
whereby the reseller agreed to Aendeavor@ to sell $2 million of Smartforce courseware.  More 
specifically, the letter agreement provided that the reseller would endeavor to bundle a minimum 
of 400,000 units of Smartforce training courses with other software.  The reseller would pay 
SmartForce $5.00 per each bundle shipped.  SmartForce factored the receivable for this 
agreement, but was liable for any amounts unpaid by the reseller.  SmartForce recognized the $2 
million as revenue for the quarter ended June 30, 2001. 

       In December 2001, Smartforce entered into another letter agreement with the same 
reseller, whereby the reseller again agreed to endeavor to sell $3.5 million of Smartforce 
courseware.  SmartForce factored the December endeavor receivable and again remained liable 
for any amounts unpaid by the reseller.  SmartForce included the $3.5 million as revenue in its 
Form 10-K for fiscal 2001.  

        SmartForce should not have recognized up-front the $5.5 million as revenue because the 
reseller did not make a firm commitment.    

       While reviewing the work papers for the fourth quarter 2001 transactions, O=Hogan 
became concerned that the December transaction was not a firm commitment, and therefore the 
fee was not fixed or determinable.  Based on the audit manager=s explanation that the transaction 
was like the June endeavor agreement, for which SmartForce had received payment, and based 
on a purported representation from management that the endeavor agreement constituted a 
binding commitment, O=Hogan failed to take exception to the Company=s improper revenue 

                                               8 

---------------------Page 9---------------------

recognition on this transaction.  Reliance on any such purported representation, however, was 
unwarranted in light of the fact that the endeavor agreement on its face provided that the reseller 
would merely make an effort to bundle SmartForce=s products. 

              e.      Failure to Adequately Audit a Multi-Element Arrangement 

       In mid-June 2001, SmartForce executed a three-year multi-element arrangement with a 
customer.  The arrangement entitled the customer to use (i) SmartForce=s platform and generic 
courseware, and (ii) third party content that SmartForce would customize.  The third party 
content consisted of software developed by a private company.  The total price charged by 
SmartForce for the arrangement was $5 million, of which $800,000 was applied toward the 
license for the SmartForce platform and generic courseware, while the remaining $4.2 million 
was earmarked for the third party content.  The agreement obligated the customer to make two 
payments of $2.5 million to SmartForce, on July 6, 2001, and October 5, 2001.   

       During the quarter ended September 30, 2001, Smartforce recognized revenue on this 
multi-element arrangement ratably.  Contrary to GAAP, in its fourth quarter 2001, however, 
SmartForce reversed most of the deferred revenue balances and recognized a sum of 
approximately $3.9 million in revenue.  Accordingly, for fiscal 2001, SmartForce recognized 
$4.3 million on this arrangement and improperly included that revenue in the Company=s Form 
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001.   

       In January, 2002, the audit manager reviewed and initialed a deferred revenue listing that 
clearly reflected that $3.9 million of the deferred revenue from the transaction with the customer 
had been taken into revenue.  Notwithstanding this red flag, the audit manager failed to follow 
up on the matter and the auditors failed to discover that SmartForce had improperly recognized 
revenue from the arrangement.   

              f.      Other Aspects of Respondents= Inadequate Audit 

       The Respondents= audit work was inadequate in other ways as well.  For example, the 
auditors failed to take exception to revenue recognition from agreements that had effective dates 
but which did not indicate the date of execution, as well as to recognition of $2.4 million in 
revenue from an agreement that allowed either party to terminate the obligation without cause.  
Such termination clause rendered the fee not fixed or determinable.  

       The auditors also failed to document alleged representations made by SmartForce=s 
management and certain procedures purportedly performed during the audits.  For example, 
notwithstanding O=Hogan=s purported reliance on management=s representation that the endeavor 
phrase constituted a binding agreement in reaching his conclusion that the Company had 
properly recognized revenue on the re-seller transaction, he did not document that representation 
in the work papers.  On several occasions, the auditors failed to document how they concluded 
that delivery had occurred and that the fee was fixed or determinable in light of the extended 
payment terms.   

                                               9 

---------------------Page 10---------------------

E. 	   LEGAL DISCUSSION 

       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission's Rules of Practice provides, in part, that the 
Commission may censure or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before the Commission to any person who is found by the Commission to have 
engaged in improper professional conduct.  Rule 102(e)(1)(iv) defines improper professional 
conduct with respect to persons licensed to practice as accountants. 

       As applicable here, improper professional conduct means Arepeated instances of 
unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards, that 
indicate a lack of competence to practice before the Commission.@  Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2).  As 
stated below, O=Hogan acted unreasonably in failing to detect SmartForce=s failure to comply 
with GAAP and in failing to comply with GAAS during EYCA=s audits and reviews of the 
Company's financial statements during the Restatement Period. 

       1. 	   Training and Proficiency of an Auditor 

       Regulation S-X, 17 CFR ' 210 et seq., prescribes the qualifications of accountants and 
the contents of the accountants' reports that must be submitted with corporate financial 
statements.  In particular, 17 CFR ' 210.1-02(d) requires that the financial statements of a public 
corporation must be audited by an accountant in accordance with GAAS.  GAAS requires that 
the audit be performed by Aa person or persons having adequate technical training and 
proficiency as an auditor.@  AU ' 210.01. GAAS requires that auditors be assigned Ato tasks and 
supervised commensurate with their level of knowledge, skill, and ability so that they can 
evaluate the audit evidence they are examining.@  AU ' 230.06. 

       2. 	   Professional Care and Skepticism, Evidential Matter 

              and Management Representations 


       GAAS provides that A[d]ue professional care is to be exercised in the planning and 
performance of the audit and the preparation of the report.@  AU ' 230.01.  Among other things, 
due professional care requires that an auditor exercise professional skepticism, defined as "an 
attitude that includes a questioning mind and a critical assessment of audit evidence.@  AU ' 
230.07.  AGathering and objectively evaluating audit evidence requires the auditor to consider the 
competency and sufficiency of the evidence.@  AU ' 230.08.  AIn exercising professional 
skepticism, the auditor should not be satisfied with less than persuasive evidence because of a 
belief that management is honest.@  AU ' 230.09. 

       GAAS also requires that A[s]ufficient competent evidential matter is to be obtained 
through inspection, observation, inquiries, and confirmations to afford a reasonable basis for an 
opinion regarding the financial statements under audit.@  AU ' 326.01.  ATo be competent, 
evidence, regardless of its form, must be both valid and relevant.@  AU ' 326.21.  In addition, the 
auditor should Arecognize the possibility that the financial statements may not be fairly presented 

                                              10 

---------------------Page 11---------------------

in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles . . .@ and should Aconsider relevant 
evidential matter regardless of whether it appears to corroborate or contradict the assertions in 
the financial statements.@  AU ' 326.25. Management representations "are part of the evidential 
matter the independent auditor obtains, but they are not a substitute for the application of those 
auditing procedures necessary to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the financial 
statements under audit.@  AU ' 333.02. 

       3.      Audit Working Papers 

       GAAS also provided that Athe auditor should prepare and maintain working papers . . .@ 
and that A[t]he information contained in working papers constitutes the principal record of the 
work that the auditor has done and the conclusions that he has reached concerning significant 
matters.@  AU ' 339.01.  Working papers ordinarily should include documentation showing that, 
among other things, A[t]he audit evidence obtained, the auditing procedures applied, and the 
testing performed have provided sufficient competent evidential matter to afford a reasonable 
basis for an opinion . . .@  AU ' 339.05.4 

       4.      Deficiencies 

               a.     EYCA 

       During the three-and-one-half years of the Restatement Period, EYCA failed to ensure 
that the engagement was adequately staffed, and that the auditors had the training and 
qualifications appropriate for the specific engagement and level of responsibilities assigned.  As 
a result, EYCA failed to assign auditors with the requisite technical training and proficiency in 
auditing software companies to the SmartForce engagement.  In addition, the audit staff assigned 
was neither adequately trained in the applicable accounting requirements for software companies 
nor properly supervised during the engagement.  Hence, the engagement team reached erroneous 
conclusions during its reviews and audits of the SmartForce financial statements.   

               b.     O=Hogan 

       O=Hogan placed undue reliance on management=s representations and failed to, among 
other things, obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to ensure that the Company (i) had a 
history of collecting on contracts with extended payment terms without making concessions; (ii) 

4 
       The content of AU ' 339 was replaced in or about January 2002 (effective for audits begun on or after May 
15, 2002). 

                                               11 

---------------------Page 12---------------------

had documented verifiable VSOE for each element of the multi-element arrangements; and (iii) 
could establish fair value for the reciprocal transactions.  Moreover, O=Hogan failed to document 
an alleged management representation upon which he placed reliance to support an opinion that 
revenue was properly recognized. 

       Accordingly, O=Hogan failed to comply with GAAS.  He failed to exercise due 
professional care in violation of AU ' 230.01; failed to maintain an attitude of professional 
skepticism in violation of AU '  230.07; failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter in 
violation of AU ' 326.01; and failed to document evidence obtained in violation of  AU ' 
339.05;  the audit manager also lacked adequate technical training and proficiency and was not 
supervised properly by O’Hogan in violation of AU ' 210.01 and ' 230.06. 

F. 	   FINDINGS 

       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that EYCA and O=Hogan engaged in 
improper professional conduct within the meaning of Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission's 
Rules of Practice.  Specifically, EYCA and O=Hogan engaged in repeated instances of 
unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards, that 
indicate a lack of competence to practice before the Commission. 

G. 	   REMEDIAL STEPS TAKEN BY EYCA SINCE ITS AUDITS OF SMARTFORCE 

       Since its audits of SmartForce, EYCA has undertaken remedial steps regarding risk 
management, audit procedures, staffing of engagements, and training of its staff.  

H. 	   UNDERTAKINGS BY RESPONDENTS 

       1.     Ongoing Cooperation: Respondents shall cooperate fully and reasonably with the 
Commission in any and all investigations, litigations or other proceedings relating to or arising 
from the matters described in this Order.  In connection with such cooperation, Respondents 
have undertaken: 

       a. 	   To produce, on reasonable notice, without service of a notice or subpoena, any 
              and all relevant documents and other information reasonably requested by the 
              Commission's staff; 

       b. 	   EYCA shall use its best efforts to cause its employees to be interviewed by the 
              Commission's staff at such times as the staff reasonably may direct; 

       c. 	   EYCA shall use its best efforts to cause its employees to appear and testify 
              truthfully and completely, on reasonable notice, without service of a notice or 
              subpoena in such investigations, depositions, hearings or trials as may reasonably 
              be requested by the Commission's staff; and 

                                              12 

---------------------Page 13---------------------

       d. 	   If requested by the Commission's staff, Respondent O=Hogan shall agree to be 
              interviewed by the Commission's staff at such times as the staff reasonably may 
              direct, and to appear and testify truthfully and completely, on reasonable notice, 
              without service of a notice or subpoena in such investigations, depositions, 
              hearings or trials. 

I. 	   ADDITIONAL UNDERTAKINGS BY EYCA 

       1.     Within 10 days of the issuance of this Order, EYCA undertakes to pay $725,000 
to the United States Treasury, which represents the amount of EYCA's fees for reviewing and 
auditing SmartForce=s financial statements between 1999 and June 2002.  Such payment shall be: 
(A) made by United States postal money order, certified check, bank cashier's check or bank 
money order; (B) made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission; (C) hand-delivered 
or mailed to the Office of Financial Management, Securities and Exchange Commission, 
Operations Center, 6432 General Green Way, Stop 0-3, Alexandria, VA 22312; and (D) 
submitted under cover letter that identifies EYCA as a Respondent in these proceedings, the file 
number of these proceedings, a copy of which cover letter and money order or check shall be 
sent to Carlos Costa-Rodrigues, Boston District Office, Securities and Exchange Commission, 
33 Arch Street, Twenty Third Floor, Boston, MA 02110. 

       2.     Training in Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and PCAOB Standards: 
EYCA shall ensure that training is provided to its audit professionals prior to assignment to SEC 
registrant engagements, in the requirements of GAAP and GAAS B including SOP 97-2 and 
APB 29, and PCAOB Standards B that is consistent and appropriate in light of the roles and 
expectations for that audit professional on each specific engagement.  

       3.     Fraud Detection Training: EYCA shall ensure that its audit professionals 
assigned to SEC registrant engagements undergo fraud detection training conducted by the 
Association of Certified Fraud Examiners or another comparable organization.  Such training 
must be completed within 12 months from the date of the Order. The training will include 
techniques in detecting and responding to possible fraud by audit clients or by employees, 
officers or directors of audit clients. 

       4.     Personnel Assignments to SEC Registrant Engagements: EYCA shall improve 
implementation of its written policies and procedures to provide reasonable assurance that  
personnel assigned to audits and SAS 100 interim reviews of SEC registrant engagements will 
have the skills, training and competencies necessary to fulfill the roles and responsibilities 
expected of them on the particular engagement.  Assignment considerations will include such 
factors as: engagement size and complexity; specialized experience and expertise required; 
personnel availability and the involvement of supervisory personnel; timing of the work to be 
performed; and continuity and rotation of personnel. 

       5.     Professional Development Program: EYCA shall maintain a professional 
development program designed to provide reasonable assurances that personnel assigned to 

                                              13 

---------------------Page 14---------------------

audits and reviews of SEC registrants participate in professional development activities in 
accordance with firm guidelines and in subjects that are relevant to their responsibilities. 

       6.     Qualifications of SEC Registrant Engagement Personnel: EYCA shall adopt and 
implement written policies and procedures for documenting the qualifications, training and 
current responsibilities of senior engagement personnel assigned to each SEC registrant audit 
engagement. EYCA shall adopt written policies and procedures to ensure that the engagement 
team on SEC registrant engagements includes members who have the requisite skills, training 
and experience in light of the characteristics of the registrant and risk involved. 

       7.     Documentation of Significant Consultation: EYCA shall adopt and implement 
written policies and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that work papers 
prepared in connection with the audits of the financial statements of SEC registrants include 
documentation of significant consultations with the filing reviewers, firm specialists or others 
within or without the firm, as required by PCAOB rules. The documentation of such 
consultations should be in accordance with PCAOB rules. 

       8.     Distribution of Order: EYCA shall distribute a copy of this Order to all of its 
audit professionals within 10 business days after entry of the Order. 

       9.     Certification of Compliance with the Undertakings: At the end of one year from 
the entry of this Order, EYCA shall certify in writing to the Commission staff that it is in 
compliance with the undertakings set forth herein.  

       In determining whether to accept the Respondents= Offers, the Commission has 
considered these undertakings and the remedial acts already undertaken by EYCA. 

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in the Respondents' Offers.    

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       a. 	   EYCA is censured pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii). 

       b. 	   O=Hogan is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission 
              as an accountant. 

       c. 	   After two (2) years from the date of this Order, O=Hogan may request that the 
              Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: 
              Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the 
              Commission as: 

                                               14 

---------------------Page 15---------------------

              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company's financial statements that are filed with the Commission. Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that O=Hogan's work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 

              2.      an independent accountant. Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: (a) O=Hogan, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such 
registration continues to be effective; (b) O=Hogan, or the registered public accounting firm with 
which he is associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB or equivalent Irish organization and 
that inspection did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in O=Hogan's or the firm's 
quality control system that would indicate that O=Hogan will not receive appropriate supervision 
or, if the PCAOB has not conducted an inspection, has received an unqualified report relating to 
his, or the firm's, most recent peer review conducted in accordance with the guidelines adopted 
by the former SEC Practice Section of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants 
Division for CPA Firms or an organization providing equivalent oversight and quality control 
functions; (c) O=Hogan has resolved any disciplinary issues with the PCAOB or equivalent Irish 
organization, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed (other 
than reinstatement by the Commission); and (d) O=Hogan acknowledges his responsibility, as 
long as O=Hogan appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the PCAOB, including, but not limited to, 
all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
control standards. 

       d. 	   The Commission will consider an application by O=Hogan to resume appearing or 
              practicing before the Commission provided that his chartered accountant license 
              is current and he has resolved any disciplinary issues with the applicable Irish 
              Institute of Chartered Accountants.  However, if licensure is dependent on 
              reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an application 
              on its other merits. The Commission's review may include consideration  

                                               15 

---------------------Page 16---------------------

       of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to 
       O=Hogan's character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or 
       practice before the Commission. 

By the Commission. 

                                Nancy M. Morris 
                                Secretary 

                                       16 

