---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

                                       before the

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Rel. No. 57244 / January 31, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Rel. No. 2779 / January 31, 2008 

Admin. Proc. File No. 3-12064 

                      In the Matter of


             GREGORY M. DEARLOVE, CPA


OPINION OF THE COMMISSION 

      CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDING 

             Grounds for Remedial Action 

                    Causing Violations of Reporting Provisions 

      RULE 102(e) PROCEEDING 

             Grounds for Remedial Action 

                    Improper Professional Conduct 

      Certified public accountant acting as engagement partner engaged in improper 
      professional conduct in the audit of the financial statements of a public company and 
      caused company's violations of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and 
      Exchange Act Rules 13a-1 and 12b-20.  Held, it is in the public interest to order that 
      accountant cease and desist from causing any violations or future violations of Exchange 
      Act Section 13(a) and Exchange Act Rules 13a-1 and 12b-20, and to deny the accountant 
      the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission with a right to reapply 
      after four years. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

APPEARANCES: 

       Joseph V. Sedita, Benjamin M. Zuffranieri, Michelle Merola Kane, and Robert J. 
Fluskey, Jr., of Hodgson Russ LLP, for Gregory M. Dearlove. 

       Nancy A. Brown, Alistaire Bambach, Jack Kaufman, and Panayiota K. Bougiamas, for 
the Division of Enforcement. 

Appeal filed: August 30, 2006 
Last brief received: December 4, 2006 
Oral argument: July 24, 2007 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                  TABLE OF CONTENTS 

I.	    Introduction 

II.	   Background 

III.	  Applicable Professional Standards: The Requirements of GAAS 

IV.	   Netting of Related Party Payables and Receivables 
       A.	    Facts 
       B.	    Analysis 

V.	    Co-Borrowed Debt 
       A.	    Facts 
       B.	    Dearlove's Audit of Adelphia's FAS 5 Determination 
       C.	    Adequacy of the Note Disclosure of Adelphia's Contingent Liability 

VI.	   Debt Reclassification 
       A.	    Facts 
       B. 	   Analysis 

VII.	  Direct Placements of Stock 
       A.	    Facts 
              1.	    The July 2000 Direct Placement 
              2.	    The January 2000 Direct Placement 
       B.	    Analysis 

VIII.	  Analysis of Liability and Appropriate Sanction Under Rule 102(e) 
       A.	    Liability 
       B.	    Denial of the Privilege of Appearing or Practicing Before the Commission 

IX.	   Causing Violations of the Reporting, Recordkeeping, and Internal Accounting Control 
       Provisions of the Exchange Act 
       A.	    Liability 
       B.	    Cease-and-Desist Order 

X.	    Dearlove's Due Process Argument 
       A.	    Facts 
       B.	    Dearlove's Contentions on Appeal 
       C.	    Denial of Sixty-Day Extension 
       D.	    Commission Rule of Practice 360 

XI.	   Conclusion 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                               1


I.	    Introduction 

       Gregory M. Dearlove, a certified public accountant and formerly a partner with the 
accounting firm Deloitte & Touche LLP ("Deloitte"), appeals from the decision of an 
administrative law judge.  The law judge found that Dearlove, who served as the engagement 
partner on Deloitte's audit of the financial statements of Adelphia Communications Corporation 
("Adelphia"), a public company, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000, engaged in 
improper professional conduct within the meaning of Rule of Practice 102(e). 1/  The law judge 
found that Adelphia's financial statements were not in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles ("GAAP"), and that Dearlove violated generally accepted auditing 
standards ("GAAS"). 2/  The law judge also found that Dearlove was a cause of Adelphia's 

1/	    17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e).  Rule 102(e) permits the Commission to censure or deny, 
       permanently or temporarily, the privilege of appearing or practicing before it to persons 
       found to have engaged in improper professional conduct.  As applied to accountants, 
       "improper professional conduct" includes the following: 

           (A)	   intentional or knowing conduct, including reckless conduct, that results in a 
                  violation of applicable professional standards; or 
           (B) 	  either of the following two types of negligent conduct:  
                  (1)	    a single instance of highly unreasonable conduct that results in a 
                          violation of applicable professional standards in circumstances in 
                          which an accountant knows, or should know, that heightened scrutiny 
                          is warranted. 
                  (2)	    repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a 
                          violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of 
                          competence to practice before the Commission. 

       Rule 102(e)(1)(iv), 17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(1)(iv).  With the passage in 2002 of Section 
       602 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, Pub. L. No. 107-204, 116 Stat. 745, 794, this language 
       was codified in Exchange Act Section 4C, 15 U.S.C. § 78d-3. 

2/	    The law judge concluded that Dearlove engaged in repeated instances of unreasonable 
       conduct as well as a single instance of highly unreasonable conduct under 
       Rule 102(e)(iv)(B)(1).  However, it is unclear which conduct constituted the single 
       instance of highly unreasonable conduct.  We therefore decline to consider whether any 
       of Dearlove's conduct was "highly unreasonable."  We limit ourselves to the question of 
       whether Dearlove engaged in "repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting 
       in a violation of applicable standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice 
       before the Commission."  Rule of Practice 102(e)(iv)(B)(2). 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                               2


violations of the reporting and recordkeeping provisions of the Exchange Act. 3/  The law judge 
permanently denied Dearlove the privilege of appearing or practicing in any capacity before the 
Commission.  We base our findings on an independent review of the record, except with respect 
to those findings not challenged on appeal. 

II.    Background 

       Adelphia, a cable television company incorporated in Delaware and headquartered in 
Coudersport, Pennsylvania, was founded in 1952 by John Rigas and went public in 1986. 
Adelphia had several large subsidiaries, some of which were public companies, and Adelphia 
consolidated its financial statements with those of its subsidiaries.  The Rigas family retained 
control over Adelphia through their exclusive ownership of Adelphia's Class B shares. 4/ 
Whenever Adelphia raised capital by issuing Class A shares, the Rigas family would arrange for 
Adelphia to make a direct placement of Class B shares so that the Rigases' ownership and 
majority voting interests would not be diluted.  The Rigases' Class B stock was convertible into 
shares of Class A stock.  In addition to their controlling ownership of Adelphia, the Rigas family 
held five of nine seats on Adelphia's board of directors. 

       Members of the family also owned several dozen private companies ("Rigas Entities"). 
The largest of these Rigas Entities also were engaged in the cable television business, and 
Adelphia used its own personnel, inventory, trucks, and equipment to provide services to the 
customers of these companies.  Adelphia, its subsidiaries, and the Rigas Entities shared a 
centralized treasury system organized using cost centers, in which the cash balances of each 
company were separately maintained.  Adelphia charged a fee for providing the Rigas Entities 
management, accounting, and other services. 

       By 2000, Adelphia was among the largest cable television and telecommunications 
providers in the United States.  Adelphia had grown substantially at the end of 1999 by acquiring 
several other cable companies (more than doubling Adelphia's cable subscribers), and Adelphia 
continued to grow in 2000.  Concomitant with this growth in assets, Adelphia's debt increased 
significantly.  Between 1996 and 2000, Adelphia, its subsidiaries, and some Rigas Entities 
entered as co-borrowers into a series of credit agreements.  By 1999, Adelphia and the Rigas 
Entities had obtained $1.05 billion in credit; in 2000, they tripled their available credit and drew 
down essentially all of the funds then available under the agreements. 

       Deloitte served as the independent auditor for Adelphia, one of its largest audit clients, 
from 1980 through 2002.  The audits were complex.  Several of Adelphia's subsidiaries filed 
their own Forms 10-K, and Adelphia frequently acquired other companies.  For several years, 
Deloitte had concluded that the Adelphia engagement posed a "much greater than normal" risk of 

3/     15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(a), 78m(b)(2)(A).


4/     Class A shares each received one vote; Class B shares each received ten.

---------------------Page 6---------------------

                                               3


fraud, misstatement, or error; this was the highest risk category that Deloitte recognized.  Risk 
factors that Deloitte specifically identified in reaching this assessment for the 2000 audit included 
the following: 

       •	     Adelphia operated in a volatile industry, expanded rapidly, and had a large 
              number of decentralized operating entities with a complex reporting 
              structure; 

       •	     Adelphia carried substantial debt and was near the limit of its financial 
              resources, making it critical that the company comply with debt covenants; 

       •	     Management of Adelphia was concentrated in a small group without 
              compensating controls; 

       •	     Adelphia management lacked technical accounting expertise but 
              nevertheless appeared willing to accept unusually high levels of risk, 
              tended to interpret accounting standards aggressively, and was reluctant to 
              record adjustments proposed by auditors; and 

       •	     Adelphia engaged in significant related party transactions with affiliated 
              entities that Deloitte would not be auditing. 

To help manage the audit risk, Deloitte planned, among other things, to increase Deloitte's 
management involvement at all stages of the audit "to ensure that the appropriate work is planned 
and its performance is properly supervised."  It also proposed to heighten professional skepticism 
"to ensure that accounting estimates, related party transactions and transactions in the normal 
course of business appear reasonable and are appropriately identified and disclosed." 

       In 1999 and 2000, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants ("AICPA") 
required that member firms rotate an engagement partner off the audit of a public company after 
seven years to bring a fresh perspective and maintain auditor independence. 5/  To replace Don 
Cottrill, the engagement partner who had conducted Adelphia's audits from 1993 to 1999, 
Deloitte asked Dearlove to assume responsibility as engagement partner for the audit of 
Adelphia's 2000 financial statements.  

       Dearlove, a Deloitte partner since 1986, had been an accountant working for the firm 
since he graduated from college in 1976.  In 1997, Dearlove had become the managing partner 
for Deloitte's Buffalo and Rochester offices.  Dearlove had served as the engagement partner on 
ten public company audits and the concurring review partner on several others.  Nevertheless, 
Dearlove had no prior experience auditing companies in the cable television industry, and did not 

5/     See A MERICAN   INSTITUTE OF  CERTIFIED  PUBLIC A CCOUNTANTS    ("AICPA"), SEC 
       PRACTI CE S ECTION  REFERENCE   M ANUAL   § 1000.08(e). 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                                               4 

immediately accept the assignment because Dearlove had not dealt before with audits of 
Adelphia's "complexity or sensitivity."  Dearlove testified that, prior to the Adelphia audit, he 
"had never been in a greater than normal risk environment."  After meeting with Cottrill and 
others on Adelphia's audit team, reviewing Adelphia's most recent financial statements and 
quarterly reports, and reading trade publications about the cable industry, Dearlove accepted the 
assignment in October 1999. 

       Dearlove began by shadowing Cottrill as he worked on Adelphia's 1999 financial 
statements.  When the 1999 audit was completed, Deloitte's senior manager on the Adelphia 
audit team reviewed Adelphia's 1999 financial statements with Dearlove and explained the 
theory and history behind the accounting presentations therein.  Dearlove also participated in the 
audit of the 1999 financial statements of one of Adelphia's subsidiaries that was considered to 
present the least sensitivity and risk.  Dearlove assumed full responsibility for Adelphia's audit 
beginning with the quarterly review for the first quarter of 2000.  Dearlove and other Deloitte 
partners agreed that the "much higher than normal risk" assessment continued to apply to the 
2000 audit. 

       The staffing of Deloitte's audit team for the 2000 audit remained largely unchanged from 
prior years.  The team consisted of about twenty staff accountants and tax professionals, divided 
into subgroups that were supervised by ten Deloitte managers and headed by senior manager 
William Caswell, who reported directly to Dearlove.  Several of the Deloitte managers had 
significant prior experience auditing and reviewing Adelphia's annual and quarterly reports: 
Caswell had spent six years working on Adelphia engagements; Ivan Hofmann and Robert 
Fitzgerald, both audit managers, had each spent five years.  In addition, Michael Lindsey served 
as the concurring partner as he had on Adelphia audits since 1996, and Stephen Biegel was 
assigned as risk review partner after serving in that capacity for the 1999 Adelphia audit. 
Dearlove had once met Caswell at a firm meeting but did not otherwise know any members of 
the Adelphia audit team when he assumed his role as engagement partner. 

       Deloitte devoted an estimated 21,000 hours to the audit of Adelphia's 2000 financial 
statements and related accounting advisory activities; Dearlove himself spent over 700 hours. 
Dearlove spent a total of ten to fifteen days on-site in Coudersport with the audit team.  Dearlove 
participated in discussions with the team, reviewed workpapers and underlying Adelphia 
documents when the team brought them to his attention, and "worked through the issues" with 
his staff in what Dearlove characterized as a "consultative process."  At the end of the audit, 
Dearlove looked at certain workpapers and drew conclusions as to whether the team completed 
its review.  Dearlove testified that he also consulted Deloitte's national office on a number of 
accounting issues during the course of the audit, mostly involving revenue recognition. 

       On March 29, 2001, Deloitte issued its independent auditor's report, signed by Dearlove, 
which stated that it had conducted its audit in accordance with GAAS and that such audit 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

                                                5


provided a reasonable basis for its opinion that Adelphia's 2000 financial statements fairly 
presented Adelphia's financial position in conformity with GAAP. 6/ 

       In January 2002, following the collapse of Enron Corporation, the Commission released 
guidance clarifying the disclosures that issuers should consider making with respect to, among 
other things, related party transactions. 7/  In reaction, Adelphia disclosed for the first time in a 
press release the extent of the Rigas Entities' co-borrowed debt.  The disclosure alarmed 
investors and analysts, leading to a formal investigation by a special committee of Adelphia's 
board of directors into related party transactions between Adelphia and the Rigases that resulted 
in the public disclosure of the Rigas family's related party transactions as well as various 
accounting irregularities.  Adelphia's stock price declined from about $30 per share in January 
2002 to $0.30 per share in June 2002, and the stock was delisted from the Nasdaq market.  After 
defaulting on various credit agreements, Adelphia filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 in June 
2002. 

       In the wake of Adelphia's decline, the Department of Justice brought criminal fraud 
charges against several members of the Rigas family and other Adelphia officials. 8/  The 
Department of Justice declined to file criminal charges against Adelphia as part of a settlement in 
which Adelphia agreed to pay $715 million in stock and cash to a victims' restitution fund once 
the company emerged from bankruptcy. 9/ 

       The Commission also brought several actions related to the decline of Adelphia.  On 
April 25, 2005, Adelphia, John Rigas, and Rigas's three sons settled a civil injunctive action in 
which the respondents, without admitting or denying the allegations against them, were enjoined 
from committing or causing further violations of the antifraud, reporting, recordkeeping, and 

6/	    Dearlove resigned his position with Deloitte in September 2001 and accepted an offer of 
       employment to serve as a senior vice president and chief financial officer of a public 
       company.  There is no evidence in the record to suggest that the Adelphia audit was a 
       cause of Dearlove's departure from Deloitte. 

7/	    Statement About Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and 
       Results of Operations, 67 Fed. Reg. 3,746 (Jan. 25, 2002). 

8/	    James Brown, Adelphia's vice president of finance, and Tim Werth, Adelphia's director of 
       accounting, both pled guilty.  John and Timothy Rigas were convicted and sentenced to 
       lengthy prison terms by the United States District Court for the Southern District of New 
       York.  The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the convictions on all but 
       one of twenty-three counts and remanded the case for sentencing.  See United States v. 
       Timothy J. Rigas and John J. Rigas, 490 F.3d 208 (2d. Cir. 2007). 

9/	    See United States v. Rigas, 371 F. Supp. 2d 474 (S.D.N.Y.), aff'd, 409 F.3d 555 (2d Cir. 
       2005); In re Adelphia Commc'ns Corp., 327 B.R. 143 (Bankr. S.D.N.Y. 2005). 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

                                               6


internal controls provisions of the federal securities laws. 10/  The next day, the Commission 
instituted and settled administrative proceedings against Deloitte under Rule 102(e). 11/  Without 
admitting or denying the Commission's allegations, Deloitte consented to the entry of findings 
that it engaged in repeated instances of unreasonable conduct with respect to the audit of 
Adelphia's 2000 financial statements.  Deloitte also consented to a finding that it caused 
Adelphia's violations of those provisions of the Exchange Act that require issuers to file annual 
reports, make and keep accurate books and records, and devise and maintain a system of 
sufficient internal controls.  Deloitte agreed to pay a $25 million penalty and to implement 
various prophylactic policies and procedures.  The Commission also settled a civil action based 
on the same conduct in which Deloitte agreed to pay another $25 million penalty. 12/  Senior 
manager Caswell consented to Commission findings that he committed repeated instances of 
unreasonable conduct and agreed to a bar from appearing or practicing as an accountant before 
the Commission with a right to apply for reinstatement after two years. 13/ 

III.	  Applicable Professional Standards: The Requirements of GAAS 

       In determining whether to discipline an accountant under Rule 102(e)(1)(iv), the 
Commission has consistently measured auditors' conduct by their adherence to or deviation from 
GAAS. 14/  There are ten fundamental generally accepted auditing standards, consisting of three 

10/	   See In re Adelphia Commc'ns Corp., 327 B.R. at 156-58; SEC and U.S. Attorney Settle 
       Massive Financial Fraud Case Against Adelphia and Rigas Family for $715 Million, 
       Press Rel. No. 2005-63 (Apr. 25, 2005), available at http://www.sec.gov/news/press/ 
       2005-63.htm. 

11/	   See Deloitte & Touche LLP, Securities Exchange Act Rel. No. 51606 (Apr. 26, 2005), 85 
       SEC Docket 1111. 

12/	   See SEC v. Deloitte & Touche LLP, No. 05-Civ.-4119 (PKC) (Apr. 26, 2005 S.D.N.Y.); 
       SEC Charges Deloitte & Touche for Adelphia Audit, Press Rel. No. 2005-65 (Apr. 26, 
       2005), available at http://www.sec.gov/news/press/2005-65.htm. 

13/	   See William E. Caswell, CPA, Exchange Act Rel. No. 52538 (Sept. 30, 2005), 86 SEC 
       Docket 1257. 

14/	   See, e.g., James Thomas McCurdy, CPA, 57 S.E.C. 277, 295 (2004) (basing Rule 102(e) 
       finding on auditor's deviation from "fundamental principles of auditing," which included, 
       among other things, failure to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter, render an 
       accurate audit report, maintain an attitude of professional skepticism, and exercise due 
       care), aff'd, 396 F.3d 1258 (D.C. Cir. 2005); Barry C. Scutillo, 56 S.E.C. 714, 746 (2003) 
       (basing Rule 102(e) finding on auditor's "[r]eckless failures to comply with auditing 
       standards," including, among other things, failure to maintain professional skepticism and 
                                                                                  (continued...) 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

                                               7


General Standards, three Standards of Field Work, and four Standards of Reporting. 15/  As 
explained by the Division of Enforcement's ("Division's") expert, 

       [t]he General Standards require the auditor to have adequate technical training and audit 
       proficiency, maintain independence and exercise due professional care.  The Standards of 
       Fieldwork set forth the requirements for adequate planning and supervision of assistants, 
       gaining an understanding of the company's internal controls, and gathering sufficient 
       competent evidential matter.  The Standards of Reporting provide that the auditor's report 
       state the financial statements are presented in accordance with GAAP and if not, it must 
       identify circumstances where GAAP is not observed. 

These ten fundamental standards are amplified by Statements on Auditing Standards issued and 
codified by AICPA's Auditing Standards Board. 

       GAAS require auditors to plan the audit adequately and to properly supervise any 
assistants. 16/  Auditors must exercise due professional care in performing an audit and preparing 
a report. 17/  They must maintain an attitude of professional skepticism, which includes "a 
questioning mind and a critical assessment of audit evidence." 18/  They must obtain sufficient 

14/	   (...continued) 
       to exercise due care); Michael J. Marrie, CPA, 56 S.E.C. 760, 791-93 (2003) (basing Rule 
       102(e) finding on auditors' reckless failure to conduct the audit in accordance with 
       GAAS, including their failure to exercise professional skepticism and to obtain sufficient 
       competent evidential matter), rev'd on other grounds, 374 F.3d 1196 (D.C. Cir. 2004) 
       (reversing based on retroactive application of amended rule but noting that the 
       requirements of GAAS to exercise due care and professional skepticism and to obtain 
       sufficient evidential matter are "'standards to which all accountants must adhere'") (citing 
       Potts v. SEC, 151 F.3d 810, 813 (8th Cir. 1998)). 

       As discussed in Section IX, the question of whether Dearlove caused Adelphia's 
       violations of the reporting provisions of the securities laws is also informed by the degree 
       to which he departed from the applicable standard of care, i.e., whether he acted 
       negligently. 

15/	   AICPA, C  ODIFICATION OF   STATEMENTS OF   A UDITING  STANDAR DS   § 150.02 (2000) 
       (hereinafter, "AU § ___"). 

16/	   AU §§ 311.01, 311.11. 

17/	   AU § 230.01. 

18/	   AU §§ 230.07-08. 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

                                                8


competent evidential matter to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion with respect to the 
financial statements under review. 19/ 

       Certain audit conditions require auditors to increase their professional care and 
skepticism, as when the audit presents a risk of material misstatement or fraud. 20/  When an 
audit includes review of related party transactions, auditors must tailor their examinations to 
obtain satisfaction concerning the purpose, nature, and extent of those transactions on the 
financial statements. 21/  Unless and until an auditor obtains an understanding of the business 
purpose of material related party transactions, the audit is not complete. 22/  As we have 
previously observed, these standards can overlap somewhat, and one GAAS failure may 
contribute to another. 23/ 

       Dearlove urges us to compare the reasonableness of his conduct to a somewhat different 
standard.  Dearlove argues, citing pattern jury instructions used by New York state courts in 
professional negligence cases, that the standard for determining negligence by an accountant 
should be based on whether the respondent "use[d] the same degree of skill and care that other 
[accountants] in the community would reasonably use in the same situation."  Dearlove asks us to 
evaluate his actions in the context of the large, complex Adelphia audit and to determine whether 
Dearlove exercised the degree of skill and care that a reasonable engagement partner would have 
used in similar circumstances.  Dearlove contends that this analysis "necessarily includes . . . 
conclusions previously reached by other professionals," a reference to the Adelphia audits 
Deloitte conducted from 1994 through 1999.  Dearlove asserts that he could place some reliance 
on audit precedent.  Moreover, in his view, the fact that prior auditors reached the same 
conclusions is "compelling evidence" that Dearlove acted reasonably. 

       The complexity of the Adelphia audit, the number of accountants assigned to it, the risk 
that Deloitte attributed to it, and the conclusions of prior auditors certainly provide context to our 
review.  However, we reject any suggestion that the conduct of prior auditors should be a 

19/    AU § 326.22. 

20/    AU §§ 312.17, 316.27. 

21/    AU § 334.09. 

22/    AU § 334.09(a) & n.6. 

23/    McCurdy, 57 S.E.C. at 286 ("For example, a failure to maintain professional skepticism 
       about information obtained from management can result in a failure independently to 
       verify that information and gather sufficient competent evidential matter.  Similarly, if an 
       auditor fails to exercise due professional care, he may not obtain sufficient competent 
       evidential matter to support an audit conclusion that the financial statements were 
       prepared in compliance with GAAP."). 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

                                               9


substitute for the standards established by GAAS.  GAAS are the fundamental standards of 
auditing promulgated by auditors themselves.  AICPA membership approved and adopted the ten 
fundamental auditing standards, i.e., the General, Field Work, and Reporting Standards. 24/ 
AICPA's Auditing Standards Board has developed and issued subsequent auditing standards 
"through a due process that includes deliberation in meetings open to the public, public exposure 
of proposed [standards], and a formal vote." 25/  These standards apply to audits of all sizes and 
all levels of complexity and describe the conduct that the accounting profession itself has 
established as reasonable, "provid[ing] a measure of audit quality and the objectives to be 
achieved in an audit." 26/  We therefore decline to create a separate standard of professional 
conduct for auditors that depends in each case on the behavior of a particular auditor's 
predecessors.  The accounting profession itself has already prescribed the applicable standards. 

       Moreover, as required at the time by AICPA, Dearlove was assigned to the Adelphia 
audit to replace the incumbent engagement partner for the specific purpose of bringing a fresh 
perspective to the audit.  The rotation of audit partners assigned to the audits of public companies 
has long been required of most independent auditors by AICPA and, more recently, by federal 
law. 27/  Deloitte itself recognized that audit partner rotation is "vital" to an auditor's objectivity 
and that "[t]he impartiality of the external audit is a critical component of the function auditors 
perform for issuers, their investors, and their potential investors, and measures that militate 
against complacency and reinforce the external auditor's professional skepticism can protect that 
impartiality." 28/  Reliance on prior audit conclusions, especially in areas of high risk, without 

24/	   AU § 150.02. 

25/	   AU § 150.03. 

26/	   AU § 150.01.  See also SEC v. Dain Rauscher, Inc., 254 F.3d 852, 857 (9th Cir. 2001) 
       (noting that GAAS are a "time-honored standard set by an authoritative source recognized 
       and followed throughout the profession" against which auditors' conduct can be judged); 
       Potts v. SEC, 151 F.3d at 812 (stating that GAAS are "well-established norms of the 
       accounting profession"). 

27/	   See AICPA, SEC P   RACTI CE S ECTION R EFERENCE   M ANUAL   § 1000.08(e) (promulgated in 
       1977 and requiring members, excepting small firms with few public-company clients, to 
       rotate engagement partner from audit of public company every seven years); Sarbanes-
       Oxley Act of 2002, Pub. L. No. 107-204, § 203, 116 Stat. 745, 773 (codified at 15 U.S.C. 
       § 78j-1(j)) (making it unlawful for registered accounting firms to audit public companies 
       if the lead audit partner or reviewing partner performed audit services for the company for 
       the five preceding years). 

28/    Deloitte & Touche LLP, Comment Letter of Deloitte & Touche LLP on the Commission's 
       Proposed Rule Implementing Sections 201, 202, 203, 204, and 206 of the Sarbanes-Oxley 
                                                                                   (continued...) 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

                                               10


questioning whether that reliance was appropriate under the circumstances, defeats the purpose 
of auditor rotation – i.e., to preserve auditor independence and encourage critical thinking. 29/ 

       On the record before us, we find that prior Deloitte audit conclusions offered little 
support for the conclusions reached in the 2000 audit.  The record does not describe how the 
audits of prior financial statements were performed or what evidential matter supported those 
audit conclusions.  Moreover, Dearlove's expert, while arguing that partner rotation does not 
require the new auditor to perform a "de novo audit of the client," nevertheless explained that an 
engagement partner "would perform . . . new audit procedures or GAAP research and 
consultation . . . to address changed conditions or professional standards."  In 2000, Dearlove 
was presented with markedly different circumstances from those presented to prior teams: since 
1999, Adelphia had tripled its co-borrowed debt, doubled its revenues and operating expenses, 
and acquired more cable subscribers.  The changes implicated areas of the Adelphia audit that 
Deloitte had specifically identified as posing high risk, namely, its rapid expansion, substantial 
debt load, and significant related party transactions.  Therefore, we reject Dearlove's argument 
that the similarity of prior audit conclusions lends reasonableness to his own audit, and we find 
no reason to reject GAAS as the standard by which we judge all audits. 

IV.	   Netting of Related Party Payables and Receivables 

       A.	     Facts 

       Since the company went public in 1986, Adelphia netted, or offset against each other, 
accounts payable to and receivable from various Rigas Entities on its consolidated financial 
statements.  Adelphia calculated its net receivable balance by subtracting the balances of all 
accounts payable that Adelphia and its subsidiaries owed to Rigas Entities from the balances of 
all the accounts receivable that the Rigas Entities owed to Adelphia and its subsidiaries. 
Dearlove testified that when he was transitioning onto the Adelphia audit engagement in the 
spring of 2000, he discussed Adelphia's practice of netting with the Deloitte senior manager who 
had worked on Adelphia's 1999 financial statement audit.  Dearlove "learned about the history of 
it," and testified that netting wasn't "something that I dealt with often in my history."  Dearlove 
"hadn't had a client that did that" before, at least not one that "had these types of related parties 
that netted."  Dearlove testified that, in approving Adelphia's use of netting in the 2000 financial 
statements, he relied on the fact that prior Deloitte auditors, whom Dearlove considered "highly 
technically competent," had permitted it in the past.  He also took "some comfort from the fact 
that the concurring partner and the risk partner in '99 were going to be the concurring partner and 

28/	   (...continued) 
       Act of 2002 (Jan. 10, 2003), available at http://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed/s74902/ 
       deloitte1.htm#P400_127619. 

29/	   Strengthening the Commission's Requirements Regarding Auditor Independence, 68 Fed. 
       Reg. 6,006, 6,017 (Feb. 5, 2003). 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

                                               11


risk partner in 2000," because Dearlove "was the only one . . . coming up to speed.  They had 
already gotten there.  The issues were similar, the client was similar.  The industry was the 
same." 

       Dearlove had been told by Adelphia management that they were concerned about the 
growing net receivable balance in the second quarter review, and that they would seek to reduce 
it through additional related party borrowing.  Indeed, the audit team reviewed the net receivables 
Adelphia presented during each quarterly review and knew that Adelphia's net related party 
receivables were reported as $178 million at the end of 1999, $254 million at the end of the first 
quarter in 2000, $263 million at the end of the second quarter, and $19 million at the end of the 
third quarter.  Ultimately, a line item titled "Related Party Receivables - Net" on Adelphia's 
balance sheet and Form 10-K for 2000 reported $3,071,000. 

       Adelphia's 2000 year-end gross related party accounts payable and receivable, however, 
totaled more than $1 billion each.  Dearlove was aware of the dramatic reduction of the net 
balance and testified that the balance had dropped "as we expected it."  However, Dearlove could 
not recall whether or how the audit team tested Adelphia's affiliate receivables, could not explain 
how his team tested management's explanations for the fluctuations in Adelphia's reported net 
balance, and could not recall having any discussions with his team about the propriety of 
Adelphia's netting. 

       B.	     Analysis 

       Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 10 states that "[i]t is a general principle of 
accounting that the offsetting of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet is improper except 
where a right of setoff exists." 30/  Rule 5-02 of the Commission's Regulation S-X requires that 
issuers "state separately" amounts payable and receivable. 31/  FASB Interpretation 39, 
Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts ("FIN 39"), defines a right of setoff as "a 
debtor's legal right, by contract or otherwise, to discharge all or a portion of the debt owed to 

30/	   Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 10, ¶ 7.1. 

31/	   17 C.F.R. §§ 210.5-02.3, 210.5-02.19.  For Commission registrants, the rules 
       promulgated under Regulation S-X have an authority similar to the highest-level GAAP 
       pronouncements.  See AU § 411.10 n.3. 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

                                                12


another party by applying against the debt an amount that the other party owes to the debtor." 32/ 
It also provides that a right of setoff exists only when all of four conditions are met: 

               a.     each of two parties owes the other determinable amounts; 

               b.     the reporting party has the right to set off the amount owed with the 
                      amount owed by the other party; 

               c.     the reporting party intends to set off; and 

               d.     the right of setoff is enforceable at law. 33/ 

       We conclude that Adelphia's presentation of a net figure for its related party payables and 
receivables violated GAAP.  Because Adelphia netted the accounts payable and receivable of its 
various subsidiaries against the accounts payable and receivable of various Rigas Entities on a 
global basis, it did not comport with FIN 39's basic requirement that netting is appropriate only 
when two parties are involved.  

       Dearlove argues that FIN 39 prohibits only unilateral offsetting; that is, FIN 39 requires 
that at least two entities seek to offset, but it does not prohibit more than two entities from 
offsetting.  We disagree.  The "two-party" limitation on circumstances in which netting is 
permitted by FIN 39 is unambiguous.  Moreover, FIN 39 is an exception to the general 
accounting rule that financial statements should present related party payables and receivables as 
gross figures; it is an exception that should be construed narrowly. 34/  FIN 39 itself specifically 
rejects the notion that offsetting is permissible among more than two parties except in very 
limited circumstances, none of which is applicable here. 35/ 

32/	   An Interpretation issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FIN") is 
       considered authoritative GAAP.  See AU § 411.10(a). 

33/	   FIN 39 ¶ 5 (emphasis in original). 

34/	   FIN 39 ¶ 43 ("Some respondents indicated that the number of entities involved in the 
       transaction is not relevant to the decision to offset.  The general principle of a right of 
       offset involves only two parties, and exceptions to that general principle should be limited 
       to practices specifically permitted by the pronouncements indicated in paragraph 7 of this 
       Interpretation."). 

35/	   FIN 39 ¶ 7 cites to certain provisions that permit offsetting regarding leases, insurance 
       enterprises, pensions, income taxes, and other specialized situations.  Dearlove has not 
       argued that any of these provisions applies to Adelphia's netting, and we find that none 
       applies. 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

                                               13


       Dearlove also suggests that Adelphia and its subsidiaries should be deemed to constitute 
one entity, while the Rigas Entities as a group constitute the other, thereby satisfying FIN 39's 
two-party requirement.  However, FIN 39 allows offsetting only by two parties, and not by 
groups of entities claiming to be functionally equivalent to one party.  Moreover, even if FIN 39 
could be construed to permit a group of similarly-situated entities to be considered one "party" 
for purposes of FIN 39, such a construction is not acceptable here.  Although Dearlove argues 
that "[t]he private entities were all owned by the Rigas family," the scant evidence in the record 
about the ownership of the Entities demonstrates that not every Rigas Entity whose accounts 
were netted with Adelphia's was owned in equal proportions by the same members of the Rigas 
family.  For example, a Rigas Entity called Eleni Interiors was owned by John Rigas's wife, Doris 
Rigas, but she is not named as a member of the Rigas family partnership that owned several other 
Rigas Entities whose accounts Adelphia netted.  There is no evidence in the record that Dearlove 
took any steps to determine the ownership structures of the Rigas Entities. 

       FIN 39 requires compliance with all four of its conditions; therefore, because Adelphia 
could not satisfy the first condition, FIN 39 was not available to Adelphia. 36/  Accordingly, we 
find that, based on Adelphia's failure to satisfy FIN 39's fundamental requirement that only two 
parties may offset, Adelphia's failure to report its related party payables and receivables as gross 
figures was a GAAP violation. 

       We also find that Dearlove's conduct in his audit of Adelphia's net presentation of 
affiliate accounts payable and receivable was at least unreasonable, resulting in several GAAS 
violations.  As we have previously noted, Deloitte considered the Adelphia audit to present much 
greater than normal risk; under such circumstances, GAAS require "more extensive supervision 
by the auditor with final responsibility for the engagement during both the planning and conduct 
of the engagement" and should cause the auditor to "expand the extent of procedures applied, 
apply procedures closer to or as of year end, particularly in critical audit areas, or modify the 
nature of procedures to obtain more persuasive evidence." 37/  Where, as with Adelphia's 
practice of netting, a specific audit area involves related party transactions, GAAS require 
auditors to obtain an understanding of the business purpose of those transactions; if the auditor 
"lacks sufficient specialized knowledge to understand a particular transaction, he should consult 

36/    We note, however, that the record does not appear to support the conclusion that 
       Adelphia could satisfy the remaining requirements.  FIN 39 requires that the right of 
       offset must be enforceable at law, and, although written agreements are not necessary to 
       demonstrate enforceability, see FIN 39 ¶ 47, there is a dearth of evidence showing that 
       such agreements existed.  Moreover, the parties have not addressed how "legal 
       constraints" such as state law and the federal bankruptcy code might have affected the 
       legal enforceability of a right of offset.  See FIN 39 ¶ 6 ("Legal constraints should be 
       considered to determine whether the right of setoff is enforceable."). 

37/    AU § 312.17. 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

                                               14


with persons who do have the requisite knowledge." 38/  Dearlove, who admittedly had little 
experience with netting, knew that Adelphia management tended to embrace aggressive 
accounting interpretations and that they succeeded in dramatically reducing Adelphia's reported 
net affiliate receivables to deflect investor criticism.  

       Despite the need for increased attention to this audit area, there is no evidence, in the 
audit workpapers or elsewhere in the record, that Dearlove gave any consideration to the 
propriety of Adelphia's netting during the 2000 audit or that the audit team conducted any 
analysis of FIN 39's requirements. 39/  There is no evidence, in fact, that Dearlove made any 
attempt to determine the gross amounts of Adelphia's related party accounts payable and 
receivable, which each totaled more than $1 billion.  

       Instead, Dearlove accepted Adelphia's accounting treatment primarily, if not solely, 
because prior auditors had done so.  This reliance on prior auditing conclusions was unreasonable 
because this audit generally called for heightened skepticism and because this account, in 
particular, involved related party transactions and a precipitous drop in the amount of net 
receivables that Adelphia reported compared to prior years.  Moreover, Dearlove's unquestioning 
reliance on prior audit conclusions is precisely the result that audit partner rotation was designed 
to remedy. 40/  We also find that Dearlove's inattention to Adelphia's net presentation of related 
party receivables resulted in violations of applicable professional standards: Dearlove did not 
obtain sufficient competent evidential material to support his conclusion that Adelphia's netting 
was properly done, he did not exercise appropriate skepticism despite circumstances requiring 
heightened scrutiny, and he did not properly supervise the audit team to ensure that significant 
related party transactions like these were afforded appropriate review. 41/ 

       Dearlove argues that the law judge's decision essentially attributed an alleged overall 
audit failure to Dearlove without identifying the conduct on which that responsibility is based. 
He contends that the law judge cannot hold Dearlove accountable for every audit failure simply 

38/    AU § 334.09(a) & n.6. 

39/    An auditor does not violate GAAS simply by failing to document the basis for his audit 
       conclusions in audit workpapers, and the Order Instituting Proceedings in this case did 
       not charge Dearlove with having violated GAAS by failing to adequately document his 
       work.  Nevertheless, workpapers are ordinarily the foundation on which support for audit 
       conclusions is demonstrated.  See AU § 339 ("Audit documentation is the principal 
       record of auditing procedures applied, evidence obtained, and conclusions reached by the 
       auditor in the engagement.").  We consider the absence of work papers to be evidence that 
       the audit team did not devote substantial, if any, effort to review the areas in question. 

40/    See supra note 27 and accompanying text. 

41/    AU §§ 230.07-08, 311.01, 311.11, 312.17, 316.27, 326.22, 334.09. 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

                                               15


by saying that Dearlove was the individual in charge and is therefore liable.  Even if we agreed 
that the law judge so erred, our de novo review cures any error that the law judge may have 
made. 42/  Our own review leads us to conclude that Dearlove's conduct was deficient because, 
despite the need for heightened scrutiny and despite his admitted lack of experience with the 
practice of netting in general, he did not pursue, or direct his team to pursue, the reason behind 
the dramatic reduction in Adelphia's net receivable balance; he did not consult with members of 
the audit team or anyone in Deloitte's national office about the issue; and he could not confirm 
that he ever considered FIN 39 during the audit.  Taking note of the fact that Adelphia's practice 
of netting effectively defeated investor scrutiny of over $2 billion of related party accounts, we 
find that Dearlove's lack of attention to the issue was inconsistent with the requirements of 
GAAS. 

V.     Co-Borrowed Debt 

       A.     Facts 

       As noted above, between 1996 and 2000, several Adelphia subsidiaries and some of the 
Rigas Entities had entered as co-borrowers into a series of three credit agreements with a 
consortium of banks.  Although the agreements differed in the amount of credit available, their 
terms were substantially the same: each borrower provided collateral for the loan; each could 
draw funds under the loan agreement; and each was jointly and severally liable for the entire 
amount of funds drawn down under the agreement regardless of which entity drew down the 
amount. 

       Combining the features of term loans and revolving credit lines, the agreements permitted 
co-borrowers to draw funds and repay the loans at will and required almost no principal 
payments until the loans began to mature in 2004.  The amount of debt outstanding under the 
agreements therefore could fluctuate as co-borrowers drew down and made payments on the 
loans.  Cross-default provisions in the agreements provided that it was considered an event of 
default if the borrowers failed to timely pay any other substantial debts – co-borrowed or 
otherwise – they had assumed, which would permit the banks to demand immediate payment of 

42/    See Robert M. Fuller, 56 S.E.C. 976, 989 n.30 (2003), petition denied, 95 Fed. Appx. 361 
       (D.C. Cir. 2004).  The law judge's opinion ceased to have any force or effect once 
       Dearlove filed his petition for review.  See Fundamental Portfolio Advisers, Inc., 56 
       S.E.C. 651, 679 n.44 (2003); 17 C.F.R. §§ 201.360(d), (e).  For the same reason, we 
       reject as moot Dearlove's complaint that certain of the law judge's findings of GAAS 
       violations were ill-founded because the law judge, in finding that Dearlove failed to 
       supervise the audit team, cited two auditing standards that were not specifically cited in 
       the OIP.  Similarly, we reject his complaint that the law judge appeared to base a GAAS 
       failure on the fact that the audit team created no workpaper on the netting issue, which 
       violation was not pled in the OIP. 
---------------------Page 19---------------------

                                                16


all outstanding amounts. 43/  The agreements also provided that an event of default occurred if 
the Rigas family lost its majority control of the co-borrowing companies. 

       By year-end 2000, the total amount of co-borrowed funds drawn under the credit 
agreements was $3.751 billion, more than triple the $1.025 billion borrowed at year-end 1999. 
Of this amount, Adelphia subsidiaries had drawn approximately $2.1 billion, and Rigas Entities 
had drawn $1.6 billion.  

       Generally, an issuer must accrue on its balance sheet a debt for which it is the primary 
obligor.  However, when an issuer deems itself to be merely contingently liable for a debt, 
Statement of Accounting Standards No. 5 ("FAS 5") provides the appropriate accounting and 
reporting treatment for that liability. 44/  FAS 5 establishes a three-tiered system for determining 
the appropriate accounting treatment of a contingent liability, based on the likelihood that the 
issuer will suffer a loss – that is, be required to pay the debt for which it is contingently liable.  If 
a loss is "probable" (i.e., "likely") and its amount can be reasonably estimated, the liability should 
be accrued on the issuer's financial statements as if the issuer were the primary obligor for the 
debt. 45/  If the likelihood of loss is only "reasonably possible" (defined as "more than remote but 
less than likely"), or if the loss is probable but not estimable, the issuer need not accrue the loss 
but should disclose the nature of the contingency and give an estimate of the possible loss or 
range of loss, or state that such an estimate cannot be made.  Even if the likelihood of loss is only 
"remote" (or "slight"), the issuer must still disclose the "nature and amount" of the liability. 
From 1997 through 1999, Adelphia had included in the liabilities recorded on its balance sheet 
the amount its own subsidiaries had borrowed, but it did not consider itself the primary obligor 
for the amount that the Rigas Entities had borrowed and therefore did not include that amount on 
its balance sheet.  Instead, Adelphia accounted for the amounts borrowed by the Rigas Entities by 
making the following disclosure in the footnotes to its financial statements: 

43/	   The 2000 agreement provided that it was an event of default if "(a) Any Company fails to 
       pay when due (after lapse of any applicable grace periods) any Debt of such Company 
       (other than the Obligation) in excess (individually or collectively) of $25,000,000; or (b) 
       the acceleration of any Debt of any Company, the principal amount of which Debt 
       exceeds (individually or collectively) $25,000,000."  "Debt" was defined as "all liabilities, 
       obligations, and indebtedness . . . which in accordance with GAAP should be classified 
       upon [the] balance sheet as liabilities. . . ."  The 1999 and 1996 agreements contained 
       similar provisions but applied to debts in the amount of $10 million or more and $7.5 
       million or more, respectively. 

44/	   A Statement of the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FAS") is considered 
       authoritative GAAP.  See AU § 411.10(a). 

45/	   FAS 5 ¶ 8. 
---------------------Page 20---------------------

                                            17 

               Certain subsidiaries of Adelphia are co-borrowers with Managed 
               Partnerships [i.e., Rigas Entities] under credit facilities for borrowings of 
               up to [the total amount of all co-borrowed debt available to Adelphia and 
               the Rigas Entities that year].  Each of the co-borrowers is liable for all 
               borrowings under this credit agreement, although the lenders have no 
               recourse against Adelphia other than against Adelphia's interest in such 
               subsidiaries. 

Deloitte had approved this treatment in the audits it conducted from 1997 to 1999. 

       In its 2000 financial statements, Adelphia planned to account for its co-borrowed debt in 
the same way it had in prior years.  Adelphia concluded that it was the primary obligor for only 
the amount of co-borrowed debt that its own subsidiaries had drawn.  Therefore, Adelphia 
included $2.1 billion as a liability on its balance sheet. 46/  Adelphia considered itself only 
contingently liable as a guarantor for the $1.6 billion that the Rigas Entities had drawn, and again 
concluded that disclosure of the co-borrowed debt in the notes to its financial statements would 
be adequate. 

       Dearlove knew that Adelphia considered the Rigas Entity debt to be a contingent liability 
for which its chances of suffering a loss were merely "remote," making accrual on the balance 
sheet unnecessary pursuant to FAS 5.  Deloitte created no workpapers documenting its 
examination of Adelphia's decision.  However, from the record, it appears that Deloitte 
considered the matter and focused its review on the likelihood, as defined by FAS 5, that 
Adelphia would have to pay the Rigas Entities' share of co-borrowed debt.  

       Dearlove estimated the value of the Rigas Entities' cable systems and assets by 
multiplying the number of Rigas Entity basic cable subscribers by the market value per 
subscriber as established by industry transactions in 1999 and 2000 and concluded that the 
Entities' subscriber assets were worth approximately $1 billion.  Dearlove did not consider 
whether the Rigas Entities' cash flow was sufficient to service the debt, did not perform a cash 
flow analysis for the Rigas Entity co-borrowers, and did not know if the Rigas Entities serviced 
any portion of their co-borrowed debt with funds provided by Adelphia. 

       Dearlove also believed that, although the Rigas family was not legally obligated to 
contribute funds in the event of a default by the co-borrowers, the family would be economically 
compelled to protect their Adelphia holdings by stepping in to prevent a default by the Entities. 
Dearlove did not, however, conduct any inquiry into whether the family would, in fact, use their 
personal assets to prevent a default by Adelphia.  Dearlove estimated the value of the Rigas 
family's holdings of Adelphia stock by multiplying the number of shares the Rigases owned by 
the price per Class A share, resulting in a figure of approximately $2.3 billion, which he 

46/	   The $2.1 billion in co-borrowed debt was included as part of the $9.1 billion figure 
       reported on Adelphia's 10-K as "subsidiary debt." 
---------------------Page 21---------------------

                                               18


concluded was by itself ample to cover the debt and conclude his FAS 5 analysis.  However, 
Dearlove did not determine if these Rigas family assets were already encumbered by other debt; 
he saw no financial statements or other proof of the family's financial condition other than local 
media reports that the Rigases "were billionaires."  Dearlove testified that he "never asked them: 
Are you worth 2 billion, 3 billion or 10 billion?"  Dearlove also did not consider whether 
disposing of some or all of the family's stock might result in a downward spiral in the stock's 
value or in a change in their control of Adelphia, an event of default under the co-borrowing 
agreements. 

       Dearlove testified that, at the end of the 2000 audit, he spoke to senior manager Caswell 
for about fifteen minutes regarding the requirements of FAS 5.  During this meeting, they 
concluded that "the assets of the cable systems and the Adelphia common stock that the Rigases 
owned exceeded the amount of debt that was on the co-borrowed entities, and the overhang . . . 
exceeded the co-borrowing by hundreds of millions if not billions of dollars."  Dearlove testified 
that, although other assets could have been included in a FAS 5 analysis, these two assets alone 
were sufficient to allow the auditors to conclude that Adelphia's contingent liability was remote. 
Deloitte therefore approved Adelphia's decision to exclude the Rigas Entities' $1.6 billion in co­
borrowed debt from its balance sheet and to instead disclose the debt in a footnote to the 
financial statements. 

       When it reviewed the adequacy of the note disclosure that Adelphia planned to use 
(which was identical to the language it had used in previous years), the audit team initially 
believed the disclosure should be revised.  During the 2000 quarterly reviews, audit manager 
Hofmann and others had repeatedly encouraged Adelphia management to disclose the specific 
dollar amount of Rigas Entity co-borrowings, but Adelphia continually ignored Deloitte's 
suggestions.  Although Deloitte was unaware of it at the time, Adelphia management was 
purposefully working to obfuscate the disclosure of Rigas Entity co-borrowed debt. 

       In November 2000, at a third-quarter wrap-up meeting attended by Dearlove, Caswell, 
and Hofmann, Adelphia management (including Adelphia's vice president of finance, James 
Brown), agreed to make disclosures regarding the amounts borrowed by the Rigas Entities under 
the co-borrowing agreements.  Caswell and Hofmann subsequently suggested improvements to 
the note disclosure in written comments on at least six drafts of the 10-K; they proposed adding 
language that would distinguish the amount of borrowings by Adelphia subsidiaries and Rigas 
Entities, such as the following: "A total of $__  related to such credit agreements is included in 
the Company's consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2000.  The [Rigas] Entities have 
outstanding borrowings of $__ as of December 31, 2000 under such facilities."  

       At the end of March 2001, as Deloitte was concluding its audit of the 2000 financials, 
Brown – despite his agreement in November 2000 to disclose the amount of Rigas Entity 
borrowing – informed the audit team that he did not think the additional disclosure was 
necessary.  Instead, Brown proposed adding a phrase explaining that each of the co-borrowers 
"may borrow up to the entire amount available under the credit facility."  Brown argued that his 
---------------------Page 22---------------------

                                               19


proposed language was more accurate than Deloitte's proposal, because the lines of credit could 
fluctuate and, as a result, it would be better to disclose Adelphia's maximum possible exposure. 
Caswell agreed to take Brown's language back to the engagement team, but he told Brown that he 
did not agree with Brown and did not think Deloitte would accept his proposed language. 47/ 

       Notwithstanding Caswell's reaction, Brown soon afterwards presented his proposed 
language to the audit team, including Dearlove, Caswell, and Hofmann, during the audit exit 
meeting on March 30, 2001.  Brown claimed that his proposed disclosure language had been 
discussed with, and approved by, Adelphia's outside counsel.  Although Dearlove characterized 
the disclosure issue as "really one of the more minor points that [the audit team was] trying to 
reconcile at that point," the law judge did not credit this testimony.  Dearlove testified that he 
was "concerned" about "making it clear to the reader how much Adelphia could be 
guaranteeing," and that Brown's language was "more conservative" but "wasn't necessarily what 
we were attempting to help clarify."  Dearlove also testified that he told Brown, "I don't 
understand how that [proposed change] enhances the note" but that, after "an exchange back and 
forth relative to that," Dearlove "couldn't persuade him as to what he wanted."  Nevertheless, 
Dearlove told Brown that he agreed with the proposal and approved the change.  Caswell and 
Hofmann also indicated their agreement.  

       Dearlove did not understand, and did not ask, why Brown opposed full disclosure of the 
Rigas Entity debt.  Dearlove did not seek Adelphia's permission to speak directly with Adelphia's 
outside counsel about Brown's proposed language.  Nor did Dearlove attempt to verify that 
Brown actually presented the issue to Buchanan Ingersoll. 48/  Although Dearlove testified that 
he "believe[d] that we had communicated to both [risk reviewer] Steve Biegel through Bill 
Caswell and to [concurring partner] Mike Lindsey through Ivan Hofmann that we had proposed 
changes to various things in the document," he did not contact Lindsey or Biegel directly to 
ensure that they understood the changes to the disclosure language. 49/  Nevertheless, Dearlove 

47/	   Caswell testified that he later discussed Brown's proposal with Dearlove and Hofmann, 
       but Caswell does not recall the substance of the conversation, and no other testimony in 
       the record illuminates the specifics of the engagement team's discussion. 

48/	   In fact, Brown had not consulted outside counsel about this issue. 

49/	   Moreover, neither Hofmann nor Caswell, during testimony, confirmed that they 
       consulted, or were asked to consult, Biegel or Lindsey on this issue.  Although Lindsey 
       remembered reading a draft of the 10-K that included the team's recommended disclosure 
       of the co-borrowed and guaranteed amounts, Lindsey did not recall seeing any draft of the 
       10-K that included Brown's language.  Biegel testified that although he believed he had 
       discussions with the audit team about co-borrowed debt, he did not recall any specific 
       discussions; he also testified that he was not aware of any disagreement between Deloitte 
       and Adelphia over the note disclosure. 
---------------------Page 23---------------------

                                               20


testified that he believed the disclosure was GAAP compliant, and therefore Deloitte "didn't have 
a basis to force a change." 

       Adelphia's note disclosure of the co-borrowed debt, as it appeared in its 2000 Form 10-K 
with Brown's added language, read as follows: 

               Certain subsidiaries of Adelphia are co-borrowers with Managed Entities 
               under credit facilities for borrowings of up to $3,751,250[,000].  Each of 
               the co-borrowers is liable for all borrowings under the credit agreements, 
               and may borrow up to the entire amount of the available credit under the 
               facility.  The lenders have no recourse against Adelphia other than against 
               Adelphia's interest in such subsidiaries. 

       B.	     Dearlove's Audit of Adelphia's FAS 5 Determination 

       The law judge found that the Division failed to prove that Adelphia violated GAAP by 
treating the Rigas Entities' co-borrowed debt as a contingent rather than a primary liability in its 
financial statements, or that Adelphia wrongly determined that its chances of having to repay that 
debt was only remote under FAS 5.  The Division did not appeal the law judge's decision, and 
therefore we do not consider whether Adelphia violated GAAP by mis-applying FAS 5. 50/ 
Nevertheless, our inquiry does not end here: even assuming that Adelphia's accounting treatment 

50/	   On July 23, 2007, Dearlove filed a motion to adduce additional evidence, seeking to add 
       to the record on appeal excerpts of testimony given by James Brown in another 
       proceeding that came to the attention of Dearlove's counsel when it was attached as an 
       exhibit to a motion made by the Rigases in their criminal trial pending before the District 
       Court for the Southern District of New York.  Dearlove believes the testimony establishes 
       two things. 

       As relevant here, Dearlove argues that one excerpt of the testimony establishes that the 
       Rigas Entities had the financial wherewithal to pay their share of co-borrowed debt. 
       Although Dearlove characterizes this as a "central issue in this proceeding," as we have 
       just explained, whether Adelphia violated GAAP by incorrectly estimating its chances of 
       having to pay the Rigas Entity debt is not before the Commission.  Therefore, Dearlove 
       does not meet the requirement of Commission Rule of Practice 452, 17 C.F.R. § 201.452, 
       that the evidence he seeks to adduce be "material," and we decline to consider the 
       proffered testimony in this context.  

       Dearlove next argues that a second excerpt establishes that a certain reclassification of 
       debt was not a "sham" transaction.  We deal with this portion of Dearlove's motion in our 
       discussion of Adelphia's debt reclassifications, infra at note 72. 
---------------------Page 24---------------------

                                               21


of the Rigas Entities' co-borrowed debt was GAAP-compliant, we may still find, as we do here, 
that an auditor's review of that accounting treatment violated GAAS. 51/ 

       Deloitte, with Dearlove's participation and agreement, had concluded that the Adelphia 
audit generally presented a "much greater than normal risk" based on several factors, including 
its multiple related party transactions, recent significant growth in the company, and substantial 
debt load.  Adelphia's accounting for co-borrowed debt, specifically, implicated all of these risk 
factors.  GAAS require that when an audit presents an increased risk, the auditor must increase 
the professional care and skepticism he applies to his review, which may include, for example, 
"increased sensitivity in the selection of the nature and extent of documentation to be examined 
in support of material transactions." 52/  Despite the clear need for increased care and skepticism, 
Dearlove conducted only a cursory review of Adelphia's accounting for the Rigas Entities' share 
of co-borrowed debt.  There is no evidence in the workpapers that Dearlove or the audit team 
conducted an analysis of Adelphia's potential for liability under the credit agreements; nor is 
there any evidence in the workpapers that he directed his team to conduct such an analysis. 53/ 
Instead, Dearlove's conclusion was based on a series of assumptions about the Rigas Entities' and 
the Rigas family's willingness and ability to pay the co-borrowing Rigas Entities' debt – 
assumptions that were either untested or inadequately tested. 

       First, Dearlove and the audit team assumed that all Rigas Entities were willing to 
liquidate their assets to cover other Entities' debts.  There is no evidence that the team made any 
effort to confirm this assumption, or at least to confirm that the Rigas Entities whose assets were 
being pooled had identical ownership structures.  Having made this untested assumption, the 
audit team did not analyze whether each Rigas Entity could service its own share of the debt, but 
instead examined only whether all the Rigas Entities taken together – including non-co­
borrowers – owned sufficient assets to cover the debt.  Although Dearlove concluded that the 
collective value of Rigas Entity cable subscribers and accounts receivable was sufficient to cover 
the debt, he did so without examining the consequences of liquidating those assets.  Moreover, 
there is no evidence in the record that Dearlove considered that, in order to prevent default by 

51/	   See Michael J. Marrie, CPA, 56 S.E.C. at 776 ("An auditor who fails to audit properly 
       under GAAS should not be shielded because the audited financial statements fortuitously 
       are not materially misleading.  An auditor who skips procedures designed to test a 
       company's reports or looks the other way despite suspicions is a threat to the 
       Commission's processes.  Even if an auditor's improper professional conduct does not 
       result in false financial statements, it damages the integrity of the Commission's processes 
       because filings with the Commission are unreliable if auditors certify that their audits 
       were conducted in accordance with GAAS when in fact they were not.").  Dearlove does 
       not argue that he cannot be sanctioned under Rule 102(e) if no GAAP violation is found. 

52/	   AU § 316.27; see also AU § 312.17. 

53/	   See supra note 39. 
---------------------Page 25---------------------

                                                22


virtue of the cross-default provisions in the co-borrowing agreements, the Rigas Entities' 
available assets would have to prove sufficient to service all significant debts of the co­
borrowers. 54/ 

       Dearlove also assumed that, if the Rigas Entities could not pay their share of co-borrowed 
debt, the apparently wealthy Rigas family would step in to cover any impending default on the 
debt.  Dearlove did nothing to confirm the Rigases' willingness to pay the Entities' debt, instead 
relying on a general presumption that all persons can be assumed to act in an economically 
rational manner.  Dearlove further concluded that the Rigases were, in fact, financially able to 
cover the debt, but based this conclusion on incomplete information: Dearlove's understanding of 
the Rigas family's wealth was based only upon their holdings of Adelphia stock and the media's 
portrayal of the family as "billionaires."  Dearlove did not evaluate the liquidity of the Rigases' 
shares and did not address whether their liquidation might be so large as to cost them majority 
ownership of Adelphia, thereby triggering a default under the debt agreements.  Further, he failed 
to consider or make any inquiry into the possibility that the Rigas family's assets – however 
substantial – were already encumbered by other obligations and therefore unavailable for use 
against the Entities' co-borrowed debt.  Finally, Dearlove did not discuss his FAS 5 conclusion 
with anyone at Adelphia or consult with Deloitte's risk review or concurring partner. 

       Dearlove's failures in examining the critical assumptions underlying his FAS 5 
determination were at least unreasonable in light of the circumstances of this audit area that 
clearly called for increased care and scrutiny.  Adelphia's co-borrowed debt was a multi-billion­
dollar related-party transaction used, in part, to finance recent significant growth in the company, 
and it represented a substantial portion of the company's total debt load of approximately $12 
billion.  Adelphia's accounting treatment of the debt warranted more than a brief discussion about 
assets potentially available for liquidation: it called, at least, for testing and analysis of the actual 
availability, liquidity, and encumbrances of those assets.  

       Each of Dearlove's failures to meaningfully review Adelphia's chances of suffering a loss, 
moreover, resulted in a violation of professional standards.  Dearlove's cursory treatment of co­
borrowed debt did not comport with the generally-applicable requirements of GAAS to exercise 
due professional care and professional skepticism, adequately plan the audit, and obtain 
sufficient competent evidential matter to afford a reasonable basis for his opinion that Adelphia's 
chances of incurring a loss were remote. 55/  Nor did Dearlove's review satisfy the GAAS 
requirement to apply increased professional care and skepticism to audit areas presenting 

54/    See supra note 43.  If Dearlove or the audit team attempted to identify for FAS 5 purposes 
       the amounts of all significant debt (as defined by the co-borrowing agreements) carried by 
       the Rigas Entities and Adelphia subsidiaries, there is no evidence of this in the record. 

55/    AU §§ 311.01, 311.11, 230.01, 230.07 - 08, 326.22. 
---------------------Page 26---------------------

                                               23


increased risk. 56/  To the contrary, Dearlove failed to apply even basic – let alone heightened – 
scrutiny to Adelphia's accounting for co-borrowed debt. 

       Dearlove argues that it was reasonable for the audit team to base a FAS 5 analysis on a 
comparison of the debt of the borrower to the value of the borrower's assets, and that his 
consideration of FAS 5 was adequate given that Dearlove knew that the co-borrowers held 
substantial assets and that the Rigases were economically compelled to respond with their own 
substantial, personal assets to prevent default.  Dearlove's argument fails to address the fact that 
the team's reliance on the value of these assets is unfounded because Dearlove did not confirm, 
nor ask his team to confirm, that the assets were actually available for application against the co­
borrowed debt as well as unencumbered.  

       Dearlove also argued in his brief and at oral argument that his consideration of Adelphia's 
chances of incurring a loss, though consuming only fifteen minutes at year-end, was supported by 
"extensive liquidity testing and debt-covenant testing of the co-borrowing groups" that had 
occurred during Deloitte's quarterly reviews.  Dearlove cites to his own testimony to prove that 
he "considered the contingency and potential for loss on a quarterly basis when reviewing the 
financial statements."  However, there is no evidence in the workpapers that the team specifically 
considered Adelphia's contingent liability under FAS 5 during the quarterly reviews. 57/ 
Moreover, the quarterly debt testing evidenced in the workpapers focused on confirming 
principal due under various loan agreements and other debt, calculation of interest, and proper 
entry of the debt on the books of Adelphia and its subsidiaries.  Dearlove testified that these 
quarterly reviews helped him become "knowledgeable about" the value of Adelphia stock owned 
by the Rigases, subscriber assets owned by various Rigas Entities, and receivables owed to Rigas 
Entities.  As we have explained, any knowledge that Dearlove gained about the value of various 
Rigas Entity and Rigas family assets through quarterly reviews still required testing as to whether 
those assets were in fact unencumbered and available for use against the Rigas Entities' share of 
co-borrowed debt.  

       C.     Adequacy of the Note Disclosure of Adelphia's Contingent Liability 

       We next consider whether Adelphia's footnote disclosure of Rigas Entity co-borrowings 
was appropriate under GAAP.  As explained above, FAS 5 states that, when the likelihood of 
loss arising from a contingent liabilty is only remote, a company need not accrue the amount of 
debt on its balance sheet.  However, FAS 5 requires that a company must still disclose the 
"nature and amount" of the liability when it is a guarantee of another's indebtedness. 58/ 

56/    AU § 316.27; see also AU § 312.17. 

57/    See supra note 39. 

58/    The law judge declined to consider whether Adelphia's footnote properly disclosed the 
       "nature" of the guarantee, because he believed the Division had presented its argument 
                                                                                    (continued...) 
---------------------Page 27---------------------

                                               24


Adelphia disclosed the total amount of credit available to the co-borrowers ("up to" $3.75 billion) 
without indicating whether any portion of that available credit had actually been drawn down, 
much less that all of it had.  This disclosure was inadequate to inform the investing public that 
Adelphia was already primarily liable for $2.1 billion and a guarantor for the remaining $1.6 
billion that had been borrowed by Rigas Entities.  Therefore, it did not comply with the 
requirement in FAS 5 to disclose the amount of the contingent liability. 

       We believe that Dearlove acted at least unreasonably in his audit of Adelphia's note 
disclosure, resulting in several violations of GAAS.  In high-risk audit environments such as that 
presented by the Adelphia engagement, GAAS specifically recommend "increased recognition of 
the need to corroborate management explanations or representations concerning material matters 
– such as further analytical procedures, examination of documentation, or discussion with others 
within or outside the entity" when audit risk increases. 59/  The accounting for Adelphia's co­
borrowed debt implicated the extensive related party transactions and high debt load that were 
part of the basis for Deloitte's high-risk assessment for the Adelphia audit.  Management's 
insistence on its own accounting interpretation was precisely the behavior identified by the audit 
plan as presenting a much higher than normal risk of misstatement in the audit.  

       Moreover, Dearlove knew that the audit team believed that the previous years' footnote 
disclosure was inadequate and had urged additional disclosure that would have made clear the 
extent of Rigas Entity actual borrowings and Adelphia's potential liability therefor.  Dearlove did 
not think Brown's language helped achieve Deloitte's goal of clarifying the extent of Rigas Entity 
debt and Adelphia's obligation as guarantor.  Yet Dearlove accepted Brown's language without 
probing his reasons for the change, without understanding Adelphia's reasons for rejecting 
Deloitte's language, and without discussing the issue with the concurring or risk review partners 
assigned to the audit.  This unquestioning acceptance of Brown's proposed disclosure language 
was a clear – and at least unreasonable – departure from the requirements of GAAS to apply 
greater than normal skepticism and additional audit procedures in order to corroborate 
management representations in a high-risk environment.  Dearlove's conduct resulted in 
violations of applicable professional standards: Dearlove failed to exercise the level of 
professional care called for by the high-risk account and failed to employ professional skepticism 
in analyzing the note disclosure, 60/ and he failed to apply audit procedures necessary to afford a 
reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the financial statements. 61/ 

58/    (...continued) 
       too late when it raised the issue in its post-hearing reply brief.  That decision has not been 
       appealed and, as a result, is not before us. 

59/    AU § 316.27. 

60/    AU §§ 230.01, 230.07-08, 312.17, 316.27, 334.09; McCurdy, 396 F.3d at 1261-62. 

61/    AU § 333.02. 
---------------------Page 28---------------------

                                               25


       Dearlove asserts that disclosure of the amount that the Rigas Entities could theoretically 
borrow (up to $3.75 billion) was more conservative than disclosure of the $1.6 billion that they 
had actually borrowed.  We think the footnote disclosure was materially misleading to investors.  
"[M]ateriality depends on the significance the reasonable investor would place on the withheld or 
misrepresented information." 62/  If "there is a substantial likelihood that a reasonable investor 
would consider the information important in making an investment decision," the information is 
material. 63/  A reasonable investor would think it significant that the footnote disclosure spoke 
only in terms of potential debt when, in fact, the entire line of credit had been borrowed and $1.6 
billion of it was excluded from Adelphia's balance sheet but potentially payable by Adelphia.  It 
was especially important for this information to appear in Adelphia's financial statements 
because investors had no access to the financial statements of the privately-held Rigas Entities. 
We therefore reject Dearlove's argument that Adelphia's note complied with FAS 5's requirement 
to disclose the amount of debt that Adelphia guaranteed.  

       Dearlove also contends that Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation 
("FIN") 45, issued in November 2002, contains accounting guidance that supports his view that 
the disclosure was adequate under GAAP.  In the alternative, Dearlove argues, FIN 45 evidences 
enough uncertainty about the appropriate GAAP treatment that we cannot second-guess the 
reasonableness of his conclusions.  FIN 45, which interprets the requirements of FAS 5, specifies 
that the disclosure of a guarantee should state (a) the nature of the guarantee, (b) the maximum 
potential amount of future payments (undiscounted) the guarantor could be required to make 
under the guarantee, (c) the current carrying amount of the liability, and (d) the nature of certain 
third-party assets against which the guarantor could use to cover a loss. 64/  Dearlove argues that 
disclosure of "up to $3.75 billion" represented the "maximum potential amount of future 
payments" that FIN 45 presents as the disclosure "most relevant to a reader." 

       FIN 45 does not alter our conclusion that Adelphia's disclosure was not GAAP-
compliant.  As an initial matter, FIN 45 was enacted after the 2000 Adelphia audit, and therefore 
is of only uncertain applicability here.  To the extent FIN 45 has any relevance to Adelphia's 
disclosure, FIN 45 explains that, in disclosing the nature of a guarantee, an issuer should present 
"the approximate term of the guarantee, how the guarantee arose, and the events or circumstances 

62/    Basic Inc. v. Levinson, 485 U.S. 224, 240 (1988); TSC Indus., Inc. v. Northway, Inc., 426 
       U.S. 438, 449 (1976); see also SEC v. Capital Gains Research Bureau, Inc., 375 U.S. 180, 
       186 (1963) (stating that a fundamental purpose of the federal securities laws is "to 
       substitute a philosophy of full disclosure for the philosophy of caveat emptor"). 

63/    SEC v. Rogers, 790 F.2d 1450, 1458 (9th Cir. 1986). 

64/    FIN 45 ¶ 13. 
---------------------Page 29---------------------

                                               26


that would require the] guarantor to perform under the guarantee." 65/  Whether Adelphia 
properly disclosed the nature of its guarantee of the Rigas Entities' co-borrowed debt is not 
before us; 66/ however, FIN 45's description of the factors relevant to the nature of the guarantee 
also informs the disclosure of the amount of the guarantee.  Here, Adelphia's liability arose from 
a co-borrowing agreement under which Adelphia itself actually borrowed and recorded $2.1 
billion and actually guaranteed $1.6 billion borrowed by Rigas Entities; Adelphia knew that it 
might have to pay this $1.6 billion if the Rigas Entities could not.  In these circumstances, FIN 45 
indicates that Adelphia should have disclosed that the amount of the guarantee was $1.6 billion, 
the maximum potential future payments for which Adelphia was then obligated as guarantor, 
rather than a hypothetical amount based on payoffs and borrowings that might never occur.  In 
FIN 45, the FASB "observed that there are differing interpretations about the disclosures required 
of guarantors under [FAS 5]." 67/  However, under these circumstances, FAS 5's requirement to 
disclose the amount of the guarantee, a known sum, could not have been subject to differing 
interpretations by reasonable auditors.  Accordingly, nothing in FIN 45 leads us to conclude that 
Dearlove reasonably exercised his professional judgment in deciding that the disclosure was 
adequate. 

VI.    Debt Reclassification 

       A.     Facts 

       After the end of the second, third, and fourth quarters of 2000, Adelphia's accounting 
department transferred the reporting of approximately $296 million of debt from the books of 
Adelphia's subsidiaries to the books of various Rigas Entities.  In exchange, Adelphia eliminated 
from its books receivables owed to it by the respective Rigas Entities in the amount of debt 
transferred.  The three transfers were in the amounts of $36 million, approximately $222 million, 
and more than $38 million, respectively. 68/  In each instance, the transaction took place after the 

65/    FIN 45 ¶ 13(a). 

66/    See supra note 58. 

67/    FIN 45 ¶ 1. 

68/    Although these amounts were clearly recorded as debts on the books of the subsidiaries, 
       the record does not make clear from whom the money was borrowed.  See Gregory M. 
       Dearlove, Initial Dec. Rel. No. 623 (July 27, 2006), 88 SEC Docket 1808, 1841 n.33 
       (finding that although the OIP implied, and the parties assumed, that all of the reclassified 
       debt was co-borrowed debt, the Division did not establish that to be true). 
---------------------Page 30---------------------

                                                27


end of the quarter, and each transfer involved a post-closing journal entry that was retroactive to 
the last day of the quarter. 69/ 

       A checklist prepared by Deloitte in anticipation of the 2000 audit showed that Deloitte 
was aware of a significant number of related party transactions that had arisen outside the normal 
course of business and that past audits had indicated a significant number of misstatements or 
correcting entries made by Adelphia, particularly at or near year-end.  An audit overview 
memorandum recognized as a risk area that "Adelphia records numerous post-closing adjusting 
journal entries" and provided as an audit response, "[Deloitte] engagement team to review post-
closing journal entries recorded and review with appropriate personnel.  Conclude as to 
reasonableness of entries posted."  An audit planning memorandum provided that "[p]rofessional 
skepticism will be heightened to ensure that . . . related party transactions . . . are appropriately 
identified and disclosed" and that auditors should "increase professional skepticism in [areas] 
where significant related party transactions could occur."  

       Dearlove testified that Deloitte had identified the Rigases' control of both Adelphia and 
the Rigas Entities as posing a special risk. 70/  Dearlove also testified that he believed it was 
important to know whose debt was whose, as between Adelphia and the Rigas Entities.  He 
testified that he was "generally aware the debt was audited," but that he did not review the debt 
workpapers directly.  He also testified: "I don't recall [debt] being [a] particularly sensitive 
area, . . . I don't recall issues raised to me of difficulties we had.  I don't recall any particular 
conversation [I] had with the team" concerning the audit of the debt.  The record does not show 
that Dearlove knew of the three journal entries involving debt reclassification at the time of the 
audit. 

       B. 	    Analysis 

       Paragraph 16 of Statement of Accounting Standards No. 125 ("FAS 125"), Accounting 
for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities, permits a 

69/	   For example, after the end of the second quarter of 2000, Adelphia transferred the 
       reporting of $36 million of debt from the books of UCA Corporation, an Adelphia 
       subsidiary, to the books of Hilton Head Communications, a Rigas Entity.  The entry was 
       booked on July 14, 2000, and it involves a post-closing journal entry that was made 
       retroactive to June 30, 2000. 

70/	   In planning the audit, Deloitte had identified Adelphia's complex organizational structure 
       and the concentration of its management in a small group as factors contributing to the 
       "much greater than normal" risk of fraud, misstatement, or error posed by the Adelphia 
       engagement.  See supra Section II (discussing general risk factors identified in audit 
       planning). 
---------------------Page 31---------------------

                                               28


debtor to derecognize a liability "if and only if it has been extinguished." 71/  FAS 125 ¶ 16 
provides that a liability is extinguished if either (a) the debtor pays the creditor and is relieved of 
its obligation for the liability, or (b) the debtor is legally released from being the primary obligor 
under the liability, either judicially or by the creditor.  

       When the Adelphia subsidiaries posted the debt in question to their books, they 
acknowledged their primary liability for the amounts posted.  They could not properly remove 
the debt from their books without first satisfying the requirements of FAS 125 ¶ 16 that either (1) 
the Adelphia subsidiaries repaid the debt to the creditor during the relevant reporting periods, or 
(2) a creditor had released the subsidiaries from their liability for repayment.  The evidence does 
not show, and Dearlove does not contend, that either of these events occurred.  Adelphia's 
attempt to extinguish the debt unilaterally merely by shifting the reporting to the Rigas Entities 
violated GAAP and rendered its financial statements materially misleading by making Adelphia's 
debt appear less than it was. 72/ 

       Dearlove points out that Elliot Lesser, the Division's expert, offered no opinion as to the 
alleged debt reclassifications, and made no assertion of any GAAP violation with respect to 
FAS 125. 73/  Without the support of expert testimony, Dearlove argues, the law judge, and by 
implication the Commission, may not find a violation of FAS 125. 74/  Dearlove's argument is 
incorrect.  The Commission may consider expert testimony, but it is not bound by such testimony 

71/	   FAS 125 was superceded by FAS 140, effective for extinguishments of liabilities 
       occurring after March 21, 2001.  The provisions discussed here were carried over 
       unchanged into FAS 140. 

72/	   The law judge found that the $38 million debt reclassification after the end of the fourth 
       quarter of 2000 was a sham transaction that had no rational purpose other than to reduce 
       the level of debt that Adelphia reported in its public filings.  We reach no conclusion as to 
       whether that transaction was a sham because the resolution of that question does not alter 
       our FAS 125 analysis.  The Brown testimony that Dearlove seeks to introduce through his 
       Rule 452 motion, see supra note 50, is irrelevant because we do not need to make a 
       finding as to whether the transaction was a sham. 

73/	   Dearlove characterizes Lesser's testimony as an "obvious refusal" to adopt the Division's 
       theory of a FAS 125 violation.  The testimony to which Dearlove refers, however, was 
       not related to the alleged FAS 125 violations.  Rather, Lesser was responding to a request 
       that he identify factors supporting his conclusion that the Rigas Entities' co-borrowed 
       debt should have been booked as Adelphia's primary obligation under FAS 5. 

74/	   Dearlove makes a similar argument regarding the law judge's (and the Commission's) 
       purported inability to find a GAAP violation with respect to Adelphia's accounting 
       treatment of direct placements without expert testimony.  See infra note 88. 
---------------------Page 32---------------------

                                               29


even where it is available, and the absence of expert testimony does not preclude the 
Commission from making necessary findings with respect to principles of accounting. 75/ 

       Dearlove does not dispute that "certain debt which had been posted to Adelphia was later 
posted to a Rigas entity."  However, focusing on the statement in the Initial Decision that "[o]nce 
Adelphia's subsidiaries had posted this debt to their books they became primary obligors for the 
amounts posted," Dearlove argues that FAS 125 does not define the circumstances under which 
an entity recognizes debt that may be derecognized only under the FAS 125 criteria.  He claims 
that the Initial Decision improperly "assumed without analysis" that the posting of debt in a 
ledger is such a circumstance.  Dearlove argues that the application of FAS 125 is complex 
where entities are jointly and severally liable for an obligation.  He argues that FAS 125 does not 
apply where an entity is secondarily or contingently rather than primarily liable.  He asserts that 
Adelphia was arguably not required to recognize debt in cases where co-borrowed funds were 
intended to be used by other co-borrowers. 76/  He stops short, however, of saying that the funds 
at issue were so intended, and our review of the record yields nothing to support such a 
contention. 

75/	   Cf., e.g., Pagel, Inc., 48 S.E.C. 223, 230 (1985) (stating that law judge "highly 
       sophisticated in securities matters with many years of experience in determining issues 
       under the securities laws" could determine that manipulation occurred without expert 
       testimony), aff'd, 803 F.2d 942, 947 (8th Cir. 1986) ("There is no reason to believe that 
       the [proffered] expert's testimony would have added anything to this administrative 
       adjudication directed and decided by a person already knowledgeable in securities 
       regulation matters.").  See also Haskins & Sells, Accounting Series Release No. 73 (Oct. 
       30, 1952), 1952 SEC LEXIS 1062, at *28 ("[W]hile the opinions of qualified expert 
       accountants may be helpful, this Commission must in the last analysis weigh the value of 
       expert testimony against its own judgment of what is sound accounting practice.").  This 
       conclusion also applies to the similar argument Dearlove asserts in connection with 
       Adelphia's accounting for certain direct placements.  See infra note 88. 

       Despite Dearlove's argument that FAS 125 is a "highly technical standard," we find its 
       application to the facts at issue straightforward, and well within our expertise.  We do not 
       read For Liability Extinguishment, a December 2003 document by the Financial 
       Accounting Standards Advisory Committee cited in Dearlove's reply brief and by his 
       counsel at oral argument, as endorsing Adelphia's accounting treatment of the reclassified 
       debt.  Although that document indicates that there is some ambiguity as to the application 
       of FAS 140 (the successor to FAS 125) where there is joint and several liability for a 
       debt, nothing in that document supports the accounting treatment by Adelphia of its 
       reclassified debt in this case. 

76/	   Dearlove adduces no support for his contention that the debts were not recognized when 
       Adelphia booked them. 
---------------------Page 33---------------------

                                               30


       The record does not establish that all of the reclassified debt was co-borrowed debt, and 
the law judge correctly concluded that the impropriety of Adelphia's debt reclassification was 
unaffected by the question whether the debt was co-borrowed.  In addition, Dearlove cites no 
authority to support his contention that FAS 125 is applicable only where primary obligors were 
required to recognize a liability, and we are aware of none.  

       In any event, the original recording of the debt on the subsidiaries' books is, at a 
minimum, circumstantial evidence of their receipt of money, whether co-borrowed or otherwise 
borrowed.  Moreover, Adelphia gave up something of value when it transferred the reporting of 
the debt: it removed from its books corresponding amounts of receivables owed to it by Rigas 
Entities.  The removal of the receivables is most reasonably viewed as a quid pro quo for the 
transfer of debt that was properly Adelphia's.  Adelphia's subsequent transfer of that debt to the 
Rigas Entities was tied to the removal from Adelphia's books of receivables owed to it by the 
Rigas Entities and supports the conclusion that the subsidiaries received the money at issue from 
the lender. 

       The crucial question for the FAS 125 analysis is whether the debt was extinguished in one 
of the enumerated ways.  If the debt was not extinguished as provided in FAS 125, the debtor 
may not derecognize it.  We find that the debts were recognized when booked and that, because 
there was no evidence that the debts were extinguished under FAS 125 ¶ 16, the accounting 
treatment violated GAAP. 

       We also find that Dearlove's conduct in his audit of Adelphia's accounting for debt was at 
least unreasonable, resulting in several GAAS violations.  As explained above, Dearlove knew 
that Adelphia had a large number of decentralized operating entities with a complex reporting 
structure, carried substantial debt, and engaged in significant related party transactions with 
affiliated entities that Deloitte would not be auditing.  He also knew that Adelphia management 
tended to interpret accounting standards aggressively.  Moreover, the audit plan specifically 
required that post-closing journal entries be examined in particular detail and that the audit team 
conclude as to their reasonableness.  Dearlove knew that these factors, together with others, led 
Deloitte to identify the Adelphia audit as posing a "much greater than normal" risk of fraud, 
misstatement, or error.  Additionally, Dearlove knew that Adelphia management netted its 
affiliate accounts payable and receivable and sought to reduce the amount of related party 
receivables it reported. 

       In this context, GAAS required Dearlove to consider the "much greater than normal" risk 
of the audit in determining the extent of procedures, assigning staff, and requiring appropriate 
levels of supervision. 77/  Additionally, he was required to "direct the efforts of assistants who 
[were] involved in accomplishing the objectives of the audit and [to] determin[e] whether those 

77/    AU § 312.17.

---------------------Page 34---------------------

                                               31


objectives were accomplished." 78/  He was required to exercise "an attitude that includes a 
questioning mind and a critical assessment of audit evidence," 79/ "to obtain sufficient competent 
evidential matter to provide . . . a reasonable basis for forming a conclusion," 80/ and, after 
identifying related party transactions, to "apply the procedures he consider[ed] necessary to 
obtain satisfaction concerning the purpose, nature, and extent of these transactions and their 
effect on the financial statements." 81/ 

       A reasonable engagement partner, under the circumstances present here, would have 
developed a much more thorough understanding of Adelphia's accounting for debt than Dearlove 
did and would have paid more attention to ensuring that the engagement team was asking the 
sorts of questions that would have brought matters like the accounting for reclassified debt to 
light (for example, questions about how Adelphia recorded debt or decided where debt belonged, 
how related party receivables were audited, and how Adelphia managed to reduce the receivable 
line item on its balance sheet by 98% over the prior year).  A reasonable engagement partner 
would have specifically ensured that the requirement in the audit plan concerning post-closing 
journal entries was followed.  Instead, Dearlove paid only cursory attention to the audit of 
Adelphia's debt and thus remained unaware of the existence – and thus the accounting 
treatment – of the debt reclassifications. 

       The reclassified debt involved post-closing journal entries of a magnitude significant 
enough to require the auditors to confront management and request an explanation, as required 
by Deloitte's audit planning documents.  After discussing the entries with appropriate Adelphia 
personnel, Deloitte should have documented management's explanation, and Deloitte's 
conclusions as to whether the accounting treatment was reasonable, in the audit workpapers.  The 
record does not show that any of these steps was taken.  The failure to take them was, at the very 
least, unreasonable. 82/ 

       Dearlove reiterates his general argument that his active involvement in the audit 
represented the reasonable conduct of an engagement partner in an audit of this complexity.  He 
argues that he never learned of the three accounting events characterized as debt reclassification 
until after the conclusion of the audit and that, "although [he] was active in the audit, he did not 
have the clairvoyance to ask every question that is now at issue in this proceeding, or the ability, 
[six] years hence, to remember every question he did ask." 

78/	   AU § 311.11. 

79/	   AU § 230.07. 

80/	   AU § 326.22. 

81/	   AU § 334.09. 

82/	   Dearlove's view that FAS 125 is a "highly technical standard," see supra note 75, should 
       have given him even more reason to devote particular attention to its application. 
---------------------Page 35---------------------

                                               32


       As the engagement partner, however, Dearlove was responsible for assigning tasks to and 
supervising assistants. 83/  He was required to review the work performed by each assistant to 
determine whether it was adequately performed and to evaluate whether the results were 
consistent with the conclusions to be presented in the auditor's report. 84/  Dearlove could not 
satisfy his duty to supervise by waiting passively for his subordinates to bring these matters to his 
attention.  The audit plan itself directed the audit team to examine related party transactions and 
post-closing journal entries, and Dearlove himself admitted that he believed it was important to 
know whose debt was whose.  In light of these facts,  we find that Dearlove's failure to apprise 
himself of the circumstances of the debt reclassification was a clear violation of his GAAS 
obligations to exercise due professional care, supervise assistants, and gather sufficient 
competent evidential matter to support his audit conclusions.  Dearlove's failure to be more 
proactive was at least unreasonable. 

       Accordingly, we find that Dearlove acted at least unreasonably in signing an unqualified 
audit opinion stating that Deloitte had conducted its audit in accordance with GAAS and that 
such audit provided a reasonable basis for its opinion that Adelphia's 2000 financial statements 
fairly presented Adelphia's financial position in conformity with GAAP. 

VII.	  Direct Placements of Stock 

       A.	    Facts 

       During 2000, the Rigases acquired Adelphia Class B common stock through two direct 
placements. 85/  The first of these occurred in January 2000, when Adelphia issued $368 million 
of such stock to Highland 2000 L.P., a Rigas Entity partnership that was not a co-borrower 
("Highland 2000-Rigas"). 86/  The second occurred in July 2000, when the Rigases acquired 
additional Adelphia Class B common stock through the issuance of approximately $145 million 
of such stock also to Highland 2000-Rigas.  The Rigases financed both transactions with co­
borrowed funds for which Adelphia was jointly and severally liable. 

83/	   AU § 311.01, 311.11. 

84/	   AU § 311.11. 

85/	   See supra Section II (describing the Rigas family's maintenance of control over Adelphia 
       through direct placements of Class B shares). 

86/	   To help the reader more easily understand the series of transactions involved in the direct 
       placements of stock, we have appended "-Rigas" or "-Adelphia," as appropriate, to names 
       of entities. 
---------------------Page 36---------------------

                                              33


              1.      The July 2000 Direct Placement 

       In July 2000, Highland Prestige Georgia, a Rigas Entity co-borrower ("Highland Prestige-
Rigas"), drew down $145 million under the 2000 credit agreement.  Highland Prestige-Rigas 
transferred the money to Highland Holdings, a Rigas Entity that was not a co-borrower 
("Highland Holdings-Rigas").  Highland Holdings-Rigas then transferred $144,537,533 to 
Adelphia in exchange for shares of Adelphia stock.  Adelphia recorded an increase in equity. 
Highland Holdings-Rigas assigned the Adelphia shares to its subsidiary, Highland 2000-Rigas. 

              2.      The January 2000 Direct Placement 

                      a.     The Loan Transaction 

       The January 2000 direct placement used a similar model to the one in July, but was more 
complicated.  In January, the co-borrowers collectively drew down $368 million under the 1999 
credit agreement.  At the request of the co-borrowers, the lenders wired the funds to the account 
of UCA, an Adelphia subsidiary ("UCA-Adelphia").  UCA-Adelphia recorded on its books the 
receipt of the $368 million in cash and a corresponding note payable in the same amount, 
evidencing debt owed by UCA-Adelphia to the lenders.  

       Adelphia later claimed that the co-borrowers mistakenly entered an incorrect account 
number in their wiring instructions and that the co-borrowers had intended that the $368 million 
drawn down under the credit agreement go to Hilton Head Communications, a Rigas Entity co­
borrower ("Hilton Head-Rigas"), not to UCA-Adelphia.  There is no indication that the co­
borrowers notified the lenders of this alleged mistake in the wiring instructions.  Adelphia did not 
return the $368 million to the lenders, nor did it transfer the cash to Hilton Head-Rigas, allegedly 
the intended recipient.  Instead, Adelphia retained the money and used it to pay down preexisting 
debt of UCA-Adelphia and another Adelphia subsidiary. 

       In an attempt to make its books show that Hilton Head-Rigas, not UCA-Adelphia, was 
primarily responsible for the borrowed $368 million, Adelphia made journal entries on the books 
of both of these entities.  Adephia transferred the $368 million "draw" (the recordation of debt 
from the lenders) from UCA-Adelphia to Hilton Head-Rigas, resulting in the removal of that 
debt from UCA-Adelphia's books and the recordation of that debt on Hilton Head-Rigas's books. 
There is no indication either that Adelphia tried to notify the lenders of this attempt to reallocate 
responsibility for the borrowed $368 million or that the lenders knew about (much less approved) 
the reallocation.  To reflect UCA-Adelphia's retention of the $368 million it received from the 
lenders, Adelphia also recorded on UCA-Adelphia's books a note payable to Hilton Head-Rigas 
in the amount of $368 million, representing the $368 million that UCA-Adelphia "owed" Hilton 
Head-Rigas for the "miswired" cash it had retained.  The borrowed $368 million had not been 
repaid to the lenders or given to Hilton Head-Rigas, but, at least as far as the journal entries were 
concerned, that debt was now the responsibility of Hilton Head-Rigas, not UCA-Adelphia. 
---------------------Page 37---------------------

                                               34


                      b.     The Stock Transaction 

       Also in January 2000, Adelphia issued $368 million worth of shares of Class B common 
stock to Highland Holdings-Rigas.  Highland Holdings-Rigas did not pay Adelphia cash for the 
shares; instead, it gave Adelphia a note in the amount of $368 million, payable to Adelphia. 
Highland Holdings-Rigas then assigned the Class B shares to its subsidiary Highland 2000­
Rigas.  Adelphia increased its equity by $368 million and recorded the $368 million note 
receivable from Highland Holdings-Rigas as an asset in exchange for the stock, thus treating the 
transaction as a sale of stock. 

                      c.     Netting 

       As explained above, Adelphia's accounting for the January loan transaction resulted in the 
creation of a note payable by Adelphia to Hilton Head-Rigas in the amount of $368 million, and 
its accounting for the January stock transaction resulted in the creation of a $368 million note 
receivable from Highland Holdings-Rigas to Adelphia.  Consistent with its practice of netting 
affiliate payables and receivables discussed above, Adelphia netted the $368 million note payable 
by Adelphia to Hilton Head-Rigas against the $368 million note receivable from Highland 
Holdings-Rigas to Adelphia, and both the payable and the receivable disappeared from 
Adelphia's books. 

       B.     Analysis 

       As discussed above, 87/ FAS 125 ¶ 16 permits a debtor to derecognize a liability "if and 
only if it has been extinguished," and provides that a liability is extinguished only if either (a) the 
debtor pays the creditor and is relieved of its obligation for the liability, or (b) the debtor is 
legally released from being the primary obligor under the liability, either judicially or by the 
creditor.  When UCA-Adelphia received the borrowed $368 million and booked the loan, it 
became the primary obligor for that amount.  At that point, FAS 125 applied, and Adelphia 
therefore could not properly remove the debt from UCA-Adelphia's books without first satisfying 
the requirements of FAS 125 ¶ 16.  In other words, UCA-Adelphia could not extinguish the debt 
without showing either (1) that it repaid the debt to the lenders, or (2) that the lenders had 
released UCA-Adelphia from its liability for repayment.  The evidence does not show, and 
Dearlove does not contend, that either of these events occurred.  Neither Adelphia nor UCA-
Adelphia repaid the debt to the lenders, and although Adelphia revised the books of both UCA-
Adelphia and Hilton Head-Rigas to show a transfer of the liability, there is no indication that 
Adelphia notified the lenders that it no longer viewed UCA-Adelphia as liable, much less that the 
lenders agreed to the purported transfer or released UCA-Adelphia from liability.  Thus, the 
liability was not extinguished as required by FAS 125, and Adelphia should have shown the 
liability on its balance sheet.  Adelphia's attempt to extinguish the debt unilaterally merely by 
transferring the "draw" from UCA-Adelphia to Hilton Head-Rigas, rather than obtaining a release 

87/    See supra Section VI.B. 
---------------------Page 38---------------------

                                               35


from the lender or otherwise satisfying the requirements of FAS 125, violated GAAP and 
rendered Adelphia's financial statements materially misleading. 88/ 

       Emerging Issues Task Force Consensus No. 85-1, Classifying Notes Received for Capital 
Stock (1985) ("EITF 85-1") provides that, when an enterprise receives a note, rather than cash, 
for the sale of capital stock, the enterprise should generally report the note receivable as a 
reduction of shareholders' equity and not as an asset. 89/  EITF 85-1 further provides that notes 
received for the sale of stock "may be recorded as an asset if collected in cash prior to issuance of 
the financial statements."  Rule 5-02.30 of Regulation S-X requires public companies to show on 
the face of their balance sheets the dollar amount of any common stock shares subscribed but 
unissued, and to show subscriptions receivable as a deduction from shareholders' equity; these 
two entries offset each other, resulting in no net change to the total amount of equity shown on 
the balance sheet. 90/ 

       Applying EITF 85-1 and Rule 5-02.30, we find that the January direct placement should 
have been treated as a stock subscription, with resulting reduction to shareholder equity, rather 
than as a stock sale. 91/  Adelphia received only a note, not cash, in payment for the shares it 
issued.  The note therefore should have been recorded as a receivable, with a corresponding, 
offsetting reduction to equity.  

       We further find that netting the $368 million receivable against the $368 million payable 
that resulted from the loan transaction did not cause the receivable to be "collected in cash" for 

88/	   The analytic basis for this finding is the same as that for the three instances of debt 
       reclassification discussed supra in Section VI.B. 

       We have already rejected Dearlove's argument that we cannot find a violation of FAS 125 
       without expert testimony.  See supra notes 74 and 75 and accompanying text. 

89/	   Consensus positions of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force have a recognized position 
       within the GAAP hierarchy.  AU § 411.10.  They represent the consensus position of the 
       best thinking of the accounting profession on areas for which there are no specific 
       standards.  AU § 411.10 ¶ 3. 

90/	   17 C.F.R. § 210.5-02.30.  For Commission registrants, Commission rules have an 
       authority similar to the most authoritative pronouncements within the GAAP hierarchy. 
       AU § 411.10 n.3. 

91/	   The Division argued before the law judge that, under EITF 85-1, the July direct 
       placement also should have been treated as a stock subscription rather than a stock 
       purchase.  The law judge found no GAAP violations with respect to Adelphia's 
       accounting treatment of the July direct placement.  Because the Division did not appeal, 
       this issue is not before us. 
---------------------Page 39---------------------

                                               36


purposes of EITF 85-1 analysis and thus did not permit Adelphia to report the receivable as an 
asset.  Adelphia's netting of its payable to Hilton Head-Rigas against its receivable from 
Highland Holdings-Rigas was inappropriate, at the very least, because more than two parties 
were involved: Highland Holdings-Rigas, to whom Adelphia issued the Class B shares, was not 
the same entity as Hilton Head-Rigas, to whom Adelphia attempted to transfer the co-borrowed 
debt. 92/  Thus, even if the transfer of the borrowed funds from UCA-Adelphia to Hilton Head-
Rigas and the resulting creation of a payable owed by Adelphia to Hilton Head-Rigas had been 
allowed under FAS 125, the netting was improper, the receivable was not satisfied in cash, and 
Adelphia therefore should have treated the stock transaction as a stock subscription. 93/ 

       The effect of treating the transaction as a stock sale was that Adelphia showed an increase 
to equity of $368 million, with no offsetting reduction.  In reality, Adelphia's financial position 
was not improved by either the January loan transaction or the January stock transaction.  As 
discussed above, the $368 million that Adelphia received in January was borrowed from the 
lenders, and because the debt was not properly extinguished, Adelphia still owed the lenders that 
money.  Moreover, until the receivable was collected, the increase to equity that Adelphia 
showed had to be offset by a reduction in equity because payment was in the form of a 
receivable, not cash. 

92/	   See supra Section IV.B (discussing two-party requirement for netting under FIN 39 and 
       also stating that the record does not demonstrate that the Rigas Entities were owned in 
       equal proportions by the same members of the Rigas family). 

93/	   Moreover, even if appropriate, Adelphia's netting of the payable to Hilton Head-Rigas 
       against the receivable from Highland Holdings-Rigas in this case merely canceled out 
       both amounts; it did not create cash. 

       Dearlove asserts that the Division raises the argument for the first time on appeal "that the 
       stock purchase should have been recorded as a stock subscription because the receivable 
       from [Highland Holdings-Rigas] to Adelphia could not be netted against the [note] 
       payable from [UCA-Adelphia] to [Hilton Head-Rigas] under FIN 39."  Contrary to 
       Dearlove's assertion, neither the propriety of the netting nor the propriety of recording the 
       transaction as a stock subscription was raised for the first time on appeal.  The OIP 
       charged that "Highland paid nothing [for the $368 million in Class B shares] and 
       Adelphia booked an affiliate receivable from Highland [Holdings] for the purchase price 
       of the shares . . . . [T]his receivable was never satisfied for cash, but, along with other 
       affiliate receivables, was netted against, and reduced by, the fake affiliate payables 
       created by Adelphia's reclassifications of co-borrowed debt."  (Moreover, Dearlove 
       testified at the hearing, "The Rigases collectively had $368 million worth of debt.  They 
       also owned $368 million worth of stock.  The affiliated payable and the affiliated 
       receivable netted to zero.")  In the same paragraph, the OIP charged that Adelphia's 
       receipt of a receivable that was not satisfied for cash in connection with the January direct 
       placement "created a stock subscription." 
---------------------Page 40---------------------

                                              37 

       Dearlove contends that the record shows that the $368 million borrowed in January 
should have gone to Hilton Head-Rigas originally, and that "the July direct placement looks 
exactly the way the January direct placement would have in the absence of a misposting," i.e., 
with the money drawn going to a Rigas Entity co-borrower rather than an Adelphia subsidiary. 
He argues that, if we accept his argument that the $368 million loan was originally intended for 
Hilton Head-Rigas, we cannot find a GAAP violation with respect to the January 2000 direct 
placement.  On appeal, Dearlove moved to admit into evidence the supposedly exculpatory 
testimony of Adelphia treasury supervisor James Helms, which Dearlove claims to have 
discovered after the hearing.  According to Dearlove, the testimony "conclusively establishes" 
that Hilton Head-Rigas rather than UCA-Adelphia was the intended recipient of the $368 million 
draw. 94/ 

       The question whether the loan was intended for Hilton Head-Rigas rather than 
UCA-Adelphia does not affect our analysis under FAS 125.  Whether or not the co-borrowers 
wanted the money to go to UCA-Adelphia, that is what happened:  UCA-Adelphia received the 
money and booked the loan.  UCA-Adelphia also kept the money and used the money.  Having 
thus become the primary obligor, Adelphia was required to comply with FAS 125 ¶16 in order to 
extinguish its liability.  As discussed above, it failed to do so.  Because the co-borrowers' intent 
as to where the money should have been wired is irrelevant, Dearlove's newly introduced 
evidence, the Helms testimony, is also irrelevant. 95/ 

       Dearlove's argument that "the July direct placement looks exactly the way the January 
direct placement would have in the absence of a misposting" is conjectural.  We do not know 
what might have happened if the borrowed funds had gone directly to Hilton Head-Rigas or how 
the Class B shares might have been paid for under those circumstances.  We base our conclusions 
on what did happen:  Adelphia got a receivable in exchange for the shares and booked the 

94/	   See Commission Rule of Practice 452, 17 C.F.R. § 201.452 (stating that a motion to 
       introduce new evidence "shall show with particularity that such additional evidence is 
       material and that there were reasonable grounds for failure to adduce such evidence 
       previously").  The Office of the General Counsel, acting pursuant to delegated authority, 
       granted Dearlove's motion on September 13, 2006.  Dearlove's allegedly belated 
       discovery of this testimony is the lynchpin of his argument that he was denied due process 
       by the failure to continue the hearing date.  See infra Section X. 

95/	   Dearlove argues that the journal entries for the January direct placement had been 
       "corrected" long before Deloitte began its audit of Adelphia's books, so there is no 
       evidence that "any record of journal entries made many months earlier would have 
       emerged at year end."  This argument is unclear.  To the extent Dearlove refers to the 
       alleged misposting of $368 million to UCA-Adelphia and the subsequent journal entries 
       Adelphia made allegedly to correct the mistake, for the reasons discussed in the text, this 
       argument is irrelevant to our analysis. 
---------------------Page 41---------------------

                                               38


transaction as a stock sale, although the receivable was not collected in cash.  That violated 
GAAP. 

       Statement of Accounting Standards No. 57 ("FAS 57") requires disclosure of material 
related party transactions. 96/  Such disclosures must include the nature of the relationship 
involved, a description of the transactions (including the amounts thereof), and amounts due 
from or to related parties as of the date of the balance sheet. 

       The disclosure of the January direct placement in the notes to Adelphia's 2000 financial 
statements was incomplete because it did not disclose that a stock subscription was involved, or 
that co-borrowed funds drawn by an Adelphia subsidiary had been used to fund the direct 
placement.  The disclosure, therefore, failed to comply with FAS 57. 

       As for the GAAS violations charged, Dearlove knew that both direct placements had 
occurred; the dates and amounts of both transactions had been disclosed in Adelphia's quarterly 
and annual reports.  Dearlove testified, however, that the engagement team did not bring to his 
attention the mechanics of the two direct placements, and neither Caswell nor Hofmann recalled 
discussing the direct placements with Dearlove during the audit. 97/  With respect to the January 
direct placement, Dearlove understood that $368 million in cash went to Adelphia and that equity 
was issued to the Rigases, but he did not understand "the misposting and the directing issues and 
the netting," which were not brought to his attention.  Similarly, with respect to the July direct 
placement, Dearlove understood that Highland Holdings-Rigas paid Adelphia $145 million for 
the Class B shares, but he was not aware "that the $145 million was borrowed by [Highland 
Prestige-Rigas] and lent to an entity that we didn't have visibility to so that they could make that 
payment." 

       As was true with respect to the issues discussed above, GAAS required Dearlove to 
consider the "much greater than normal" risk of the audit in determining the extent of procedures, 
assigning staff, and requiring appropriate levels of supervision. 98/  Additionally, he was 
required to direct the efforts of assistants working under his supervision and to evaluate their 
work as it pertained to accomplishing the objectives of the audit. 99/  He was required to exercise 

96/    FAS 57 ¶ 2. 

97/    The record contains conflicting testimony as to whether Brown and Werth discussed with 
       Caswell and Hofmann the question whether one or both of the direct placements 
       discussed above should be recorded as stock subscriptions rather than stock sales.  The 
       law judge credited the testimony of Brown and Werth that such conversations took place. 

98/    AU § 312.17. 

99/    AU § 311.11. 
---------------------Page 42---------------------

                                                39


professional skepticism, 100/ to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to provide 
reasonable support for his conclusions, 101/ and, after identifying related party transactions, to 
apply necessary procedures to obtain satisfaction concerning the purpose, nature, and extent of 
these transactions and their effect on the financial statements. 102/ 

       The direct placements involved many of the factors that Deloitte recognized had 
contributed to the high risk level assigned to the audit: they were significant transactions 
involving related parties, including affiliates that Deloitte was not auditing.  The transactions 
were unusual in that the co-borrowers that drew down the funds were not the entities that 
received the Class B shares.  Moreover, they were large transactions, totaling more than half a 
billion dollars, and the sources of funds paid for the shares were unclear.  Both auditing standards 
and Deloitte's own audit plan required the engagement team to understand the impact of such 
transactions on Adelphia's financial statements and to investigate the sources of financial 
resources supporting significant or unusual transactions.  Yet Dearlove failed to question the 
facts that underlay the direct placements, accepting as adequate the superficial explanation that 
Adelphia got $368 million and issued $368 million in equity without seeking to understand the 
transactions involved.  In doing so, he acted at least unreasonably. 

       With respect to the direct placements, as in other areas, Dearlove needed to do more than 
wait for other Deloitte personnel to inform him of potential issues.  He had a duty to inquire in 
more detail about the direct placements, or to direct his staff to do so, rather than rely on his 
assistants to make the judgment on their own.  While Dearlove could appropriately delegate 
much of the hands-on work of the Adelphia audit to his team, he was nonetheless bound by his 
duty to supervise that work, and he retained responsibility for doing so.  Under the circumstances 
present here, we find that Dearlove violated his obligation under GAAS to supervise.   

       The record shows that the engagement team was aware that Adelphia had recorded the 
direct placements as stock purchases rather than stock subscriptions, but the team did not test this 
decision, nor did it take steps to ascertain the source of funds used for the stock purchases.  The 
large amount of money involved and the fact that the transactions involved related parties 
(including ones that Deloitte would not be auditing) rendered Dearlove's acceptance of the 
transactions at face value unreasonable.  In failing to probe further into the facts pertaining to the 
direct placements and their accounting treatment, Dearlove failed to employ the increased 
professional skepticism that the known risks of the audit required, and thus violated GAAS. 103/ 

100/   AU § 230.07. 

101/   AU § 326.22. 

102/   AU § 334.09. 

103/   Although we have found that the accounting treatment of the January direct placement 
       violated FAS 57, see text accompanying note 96, supra, we decline to find that Dearlove's 
                                                                                     (continued...) 
---------------------Page 43---------------------

                                               40


VIII.	  Analysis of Liability and Appropriate Sanction Under Rule 102(e) 

       A.	    Liability 

       Rule of Practice 102(e)(1)(iv) provides that the Commission may discipline a person 
licensed to practice as an accountant if we find that the accountant has engaged in any of three 
types of improper professional conduct. 104/  However, as applied to this case, we need 
determine only whether Dearlove engaged in "repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each 
resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to 
practice before the Commission." 105/  We have already discussed our findings that Dearlove 
repeatedly engaged in at least unreasonable conduct during his audit of four critical areas of 
Adelphia's financial statements and that his conduct resulted in violations of GAAS.  We must 
now determine whether Dearlove's conduct, though only negligent, nonetheless demonstrates a 
lack of competence to practice before the Commission.  

       This case presents to us the first litigated proceeding in which a respondent's conduct is 
being judged solely against Rule 102(e)'s third definition of improper professional conduct.  We 
are guided in our analysis by the 1998 release accompanying the amendments to Rule 102(e), 
which explained that 

              [t]he term "unreasonable," as distinguished from the term "highly 
              unreasonable" used in subparagraph B(1), connotes an ordinary or simple 
              negligence standard.  The lower standard of culpability is justified in this 
              instance because the repetition of the unreasonable conduct may show the 

103/	  (...continued) 
       failure to include the appropriate disclosure regarding that direct placement in the notes to 
       the financial statements was a separate violation of GAAS.  Moreover, because we 
       believe the OIP was somewhat ambiguous in identifying the other transactions that are 
       alleged to have been inadequately disclosed under FAS 57, we decline to consider 
       whether any of the other three accounting areas at issue in this case (i.e., netting, co­
       borrowed debt, and debt reclassifications) involve violations of FAS 57.  Although we 
       find that the OIP provided adequate notice to Dearlove that he was charged with failing to 
       review Adelphia's disclosure under FAS 57 of the common treasury system it used to 
       manage its own accounts and the accounts of its subsidiaries and the Rigas Entities, it is 
       not clear to us that such disclosure was necessary under FAS 57.  Given the several 
       examples in this case of accounting presentations that depart from GAAP, as well as the 
       several examples of conduct that already form a basis for finding that Dearlove departed 
       from GAAS, we decline to decide whether disclosure of the common treasury system was 
       necessary or whether Dearlove gave appropriate consideration to the issue. 

104/	  See supra note 1. 

105/	  Commission Rule of Practice 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2); see supra note 2. 
---------------------Page 44---------------------

                                           41 

               accountant's lack of competence to practice before the Commission.  If an 
               accountant fails to exercise reasonable care on more than one occasion, the 
               Commission's processes may be threatened.  More than one violation of 
               applicable professional standards ordinarily will indicate a lack of 
               competence. 106/ 

The Commission distinguished such conduct from, for example, "two isolated violations of 
applicable professional standards . . . that may not pose a threat to the Commission's 
processes." 107/  Upon review of the totality of the circumstances of this case, we conclude that 
the frequency and gravity of Dearlove's negligent failures on the Adelphia audit demonstrate that 
he engaged in improper professional conduct under this standard. 

       As discussed above, Dearlove approved Adelphia's net presentation of over $1 billion 
each in related party payables and receivables without devoting any attention to the matter, 
despite his admitted inexperience with the issue and despite knowing that management sought to 
reduce the net balance to improve its financial picture.  He also summarily approved Adelphia's 
accounting for $1.6 billion in related party contingent debt while failing to test any of several 
assumptions underlying his conclusion that Adelphia was unlikely to have to repay that debt.  
Dearlove also approved the company's obfuscatory disclosure of that obligation; despite audit 
plan warnings about aggressive management accounting positions, he acquiesced in 
management's formulation of the disclosure without probing its reasons for rejecting Deloitte's 
proposed language, and he took no steps to confirm with Deloitte's risk or reviewing partners that 
the disclosure was GAAP compliant.  Dearlove did not himself review, or ensure that his team 
reviewed, three significant reclassifications of related party debt that did not comply with GAAP 
and that should have been subject to careful attention as post-closing journal entries.  He 
approved the accounting treatment for two sizeable direct placements of Adelphia stock with 
related parties involving unspecified sources of funds without inquiring about, or instructing his 
audit team to inquire about, the specifics of those transactions.  Dearlove conducted his review of 
Adelphia's financial statements with these serious failings despite the need for heightened 
scrutiny called for generally by the high-risk engagement, and despite the special care with which 
GAAS required Dearlove to review these significant, related party transactions. 

       These repeated failures, taken together, evidence a troubling disregard of some of the 
most basic auditing principles.  GAAS require auditors to adequately plan the audit and to 

106/   Amendment to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 63 Fed. Reg. 57,164, 
       57,166 (Oct. 26, 1998). 

107/   Id. 
---------------------Page 45---------------------

                                               42


properly supervise any assistants, 108/ to exercise due professional care, 109/ maintain an 
attitude of professional skepticism, 110/ and obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to 
afford a reasonable basis for an opinion with respect to the financial statements under 
review. 111/  As audit risk increases, so does the need for care and skepticism. 112/  Although 
there may be room for debate among auditors regarding the best way to tailor an audit to satisfy 
these requirements, no reasonable auditor could conclude that Dearlove satisfied them here, 
where Dearlove, in a high-risk audit environment, neglected to ask what gross dollar amounts 
were behind the net related party receivables presented on Adelphia's balance sheet, relied on 
media reports as evidence of the Rigases' financial status, made no inquiry into post-closing 
journal entries that were specifically identified by Deloitte as requiring attention, and made no 
effort to ensure his team identified the source of funds used for multi-million-dollar stock 
placements to affiliated companies.  Dearlove repeatedly ignored rudimentary audit principles 
not just with respect to one auditing area, but several: his failures were extensive.  We conclude, 
therefore, that Dearlove engaged in repeated instances of conduct that were at least unreasonable, 
that departed from GAAS in fundamental respects, and that indicate a lack of competence to 
practice before the Commission. 

       Dearlove argues that the record contains evidence of Dearlove's "overall diligence and 
competence," including that Dearlove was involved in Deloitte's risk identification process, and 
that Dearlove was an active, engaged, and accessible supervisor who reviewed and signed off on 
numerous workpapers.  Dearlove contends that it would be unreasonable to hold him to a 
standard that would require him "to have personally reviewed over 32,000 pages of the audit 
documentation and to have participated in all conversations that related to any audit 
conclusions."  We believe that Dearlove's argument misapprehends the requirements of GAAS. 
We agree that GAAS do not require engagement partners to review every workpaper, analyze 
every transaction, or supervise every task, and our findings in this opinion are not intended to 
suggest otherwise.  However, in deciding which audit areas deserve more of his or her attention, 
the auditor must be mindful of the GAAS requirement to exercise special care in high-risk audit 
environments 113/ and to ensure that the staff devotes appropriate attention to all audit 

108/   AU §§ 311.01, 311.11. 

109/   AU § 230.01. 

110/   AU §§ 230.07-08. 

111/   AU § 326.22. 

112/   AU §§ 312.17, 316.27. 

113/   AU §§ 312.17, 316.27. 
---------------------Page 46---------------------

                                               43


areas. 114/  In any audit, areas that present more risk will demand more attention.  We find fault 
with Dearlove not because he failed to review every workpaper but because he failed to devote 
enough care and attention to certain significant audit issues that presented him with clear, 
previously-identified risks of fraud, misstatement, or error.  Evidence that Dearlove spent 
substantial time and effort on some auditing areas does not insulate him from liability for his 
failure to spend enough time and effort on others that were so material to Adelphia's financial 
statements. 

       We find, therefore, that Dearlove engaged in repeated instances of at least unreasonable 
conduct during his audit of four critical areas of Adelphia's financial statements, that his conduct 
resulted in violations of GAAS, and that his conduct indicates a lack of competence to practice 
before the Commission. 

       B.	    Denial of the Privilege of Appearing or Practicing Before the Commission 

       In determining the appropriate sanction, we are mindful of the remedial nature of 
Rule 102(e) and our purpose in promulgating the rule to ensure that the Commission's "processes 
continue to be protected, and that the investing public continues to have confidence in the 
integrity of the financial reporting process." 115/  In the Commission's release adopting the 1998 
amendments to Rule 102(e), we recognized that 

       [i]nvestors have come to rely on the accuracy of the financial statements of public 
       companies when making investment decisions.  Because the Commission has limited 
       resources, it cannot closely scrutinize every financial statement.  Consequently, the 
       Commission must rely on the competence and independence of the auditors who certify, 
       and the accountants who prepare, financial statements.  In short, both the Commission 
       and the investing public rely heavily on accountants to assure corporate compliance with 
       federal securities law and disclosure of accurate and reliable financial information. 116/ 

Further, we stated that "a negligent auditor can do just as much harm to the Commission's 
processes as one who acts with an improper motive." 117/  We thus recognized that, under some 
circumstances, unreasonable conduct is not necessarily a less egregious discplinary matter than 
either intentional or reckless conduct, or highly unreasonable conduct in circumstances 
warranting heightened scrutiny.  The requirement that we make a finding that an auditor's 

114/	  AU §§ 311.01, 311.11. 

115/	  Amendment to Rule 102(e), 63 Fed. Reg. at 57,164; see also Robert W. Armstrong, III, 
       Exchange Act Rel. No. 51920 (June 24, 2005), 85 SEC Docket 3011, 3041. 

116/	  Id. at 57,165. 

117/	  Amendment to Rule 102(e), 63 Fed. Reg. at 57,167. 
---------------------Page 47---------------------

                                               44


negligent conduct indicates a lack of competence to practice before us would justify, under 
appropriate circumstances, permanently barring the auditor from doing so. 

       Here, Dearlove violated fundamental principles of auditing.  He failed to exercise due 
care and appropriate professional skepticism.  He also failed to collect sufficient competent 
evidential matter to provide the basis for the expression of an audit opinion with respect to 
several significant related party transactions despite the clear need for heightened scrutiny 
presented by the Adelphia audit.  The frequency of Dearlove's failures far exceed the minimum 
threshold established by Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2): he engaged in many instances of unreasonable 
conduct resulting in several GAAS violations in each of four auditing areas. Unreasonable 
failures to comply with auditing standards that so pervasively compromise an audit, such as those 
of Dearlove, "jeopardize the achievement of the objectives of the securities laws and can inflict 
great damage on public investors." 118/  Moreover, Dearlove's lengthy audit experience makes 
his failure to conduct the Adelphia audit in accordance with applicable professional standards all 
the more troubling. 119/  Dearlove's repeated, substantial departures from his professional duties 
establish that the Commission cannot, at present, rely upon him to perform diligently and with 
reasonable competence his audit responsibilities.  

       We have determined under these circumstances to deny Dearlove the privilege of 
appearing or practicing before the Commission coupled with a right to apply for reinstatement 
after four years.  We conclude that this sanction is necessary to protect the integrity of the 
Commission's processes and encourage more rigorous compliance with auditing standards both 
by Dearlove and by other independent auditors, without being punitive. 120/ 

118/	  Touche Ross & Co. v. SEC, 609 F.2d 570, 581 (2d Cir. 1979). 

119/	  See, e.g., McCurdy v. SEC, 396 F.3d at 1265 (upholding Commission's finding that 
       respondent's "'signficant experience in audit work'" rendered his audit failures 
       "'particularly troublesome,'" and affirming sanction based on its demonstrated remedial 
       purpose to "protect the public from his demonstrated capacity for recklessness in the 
       present, and presumably to encourage his more rigorous compliance with GAAS in the 
       future"); Marrie, 56 S.E.C. at 799 (finding respondent's lengthy audit experience made his 
       failure to conduct audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards 
       particularly troublesome). 

120/	  Cf. McCurdy v. SEC, 396 F.3d at 1265 (recognizing that, where auditor departed from 
       GAAS in the audit of one asset during the audit of one year's financial statements, order 
       suspending auditor from practice before the Commission for one year served remedial 
       purpose of encouraging more rigorous compliance with generally accepted auditing 
       standards in future); Marrie, 56 S.E.C. at 798-99 (imposing permanent bar on auditors 
       who failed to conduct an adequate review of three critical audit areas during the audit of 
       one year's financial statements and noting that "substantial departures from their 
                                                                                   (continued...) 
---------------------Page 48---------------------

                                               45


IX.	   Causing Violations of the Reporting, Recordkeeping, and Internal Accounting Control 
       Provisions of the Exchange Act 

       A.	    Liability 

       Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rule 13a-1 require issuers of 
securities to file annual reports with the Commission. 121/  The reports must comply with 
Commission Regulation S-X, 122/ which in turn requires that financial statements be prepared in 
conformity with GAAP. 123/  The obligation to file these reports includes an obligation that the 
filings be accurate. 124/  Under Exchange Act Rule 12b-20, an issuer has a duty to provide any 
additional material information necessary to make the required statements, in the light of the 

120/	  (...continued) 
       professional duties establish[ed] that the Commission [could] not rely upon Marrie and 
       Berry to perform diligently and with reasonable competence their audit responsibilities in 
       the future"), rev'd on other grounds, 374 F.3d 1196, see supra note 13; Russell Ponce, 54 
       S.E.C. 804, 825 (2000) (imposing on auditor bar with right to reapply after five years for 
       failing, during audit of one year's financial statements, to adequately review two critical 
       audit areas and maintain auditor independence), aff'd, 345 F.3d 722 (9th Cir. 2003). 

121/	  15 U.S.C. § 78m(a) and 17 C.F.R. § 240.13a-1. 

122/	  17 C.F.R. Part 210.  Title 17 C.F.R. Section 249.310 requires generally that a Form 10-K 
       be used for annual reports pursuant to Exchange Act Section 13.  Form 10-K (Item 8) in 
       turn requires issuers to furnish financial statements meeting the requirements of 
       Regulation S-X, including the requirement in Rule 2-02 that an accountant's report 
       (defined in 17 C.F.R. § 210.1-02(a) as a document in which an "independent" public or 
       certified public accountant sets forth certain information) state whether the audit was 
       made in accordance with GAAS.  See also Rule 1-01(a)(2) of Regulation S-X, 17 C.F.R. 
       210.1-01(a)(2) (directing that Regulation S-X govern "the form and content of and 
       requirements for financial statements required to be filed as part of" annual reports, 
       among other filings). 

123/	  Rule 4-01(a)(1) of Regulation S-X, 17 C.F.R. § 201.4-01(a)(1) ("Financial statements 
       filed with the Commission which are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted 
       accounting principles will be presumed to be misleading or inaccurate, despite footnote or 
       other disclosures, unless the Commission has otherwise provided."). 

124/	  See, e.g., SEC v. Savoy Indus., Inc., 587 F.2d 1149, 1165 (D.C. Cir. 1978) ("The 
       reporting provisions of the Exchange Act are clear and unequivocal, and they are satisfied 
       only by the filing of complete, accurate, and timely reports") (citing SEC v. IMC Int'l, 
       Inc., 384 F. Supp. 889, 893 (N.D. Tex.), aff'd mem., 505 F.2d 733 (5th Cir. 1974). 
---------------------Page 49---------------------

                                              46


circumstances under which they are made, not misleading. 125 /  No showing of scienter is 
necessary to establish a violation of Section 13(a) and Rules 13a-1 and 12b-20. 126/ 

       Under Section 21C(a) of the Exchange Act, 127/ the Commission may impose a cease-
and-desist order on a person who is a cause of another's violation.  Being a cause of another's 
violation under Section 21C(a) requires findings that: (1) a primary violation occurred; (2) the 
respondent engaged in an act or omission that contributed to the violation; and (3) the respondent 
knew, or should have known, that his or her conduct would contribute to the violation. 128/ 
Negligence is sufficient to establish "causing" under Section 21C(a) where the underlying 
primary violation does not require scienter. 129/  Negligence is the failure to exercise reasonable 
care. 130/  Here, as discussed above in Section III, GAAS establish the standard of care against 
which we measure Dearlove's conduct. 

       As discussed above, we find that the financial statements included in Adelphia's 2000 
Form 10-K contained several violations of GAAP.  The lack of conformity with GAAP rendered 
the annual report misleading.  Adelphia's filing of the Form 10-K, together with the financial 

125/   17 C.F.R. § 240.12b-20; see also Armstrong, 85 SEC Docket at 3029 & n.58; Ponce v. 
       SEC, 345 F.3d 722, 735 (9th Cir. 2003). 

126/   SEC v. McNulty, 137 F.3d 732, 740-41 (2d Cir. 1998); SEC v. World-Wide Coin Inv., 
       Ltd., 567 F. Supp. 724, 751 (N.D. Ga. 1983); SEC v. Wills, 472 F. Supp. 1250, 1268 
       (D.D.C. 1978). 

127/   15 U.S.C. § 78u-3. 

128/   See, e.g., Gateway Int'l Holdings, Inc., Exchange Act Rel. No. 53907 (May 31, 2006), 88 
       SEC Docket 430, 444; Armstrong, 85 SEC Docket at 3029;   Robert M. Fuller, 56 S.E.C. 
       926, 984 (2003), petition denied, 95 Fed. Appx. 361 (D.C. Cir. 2004); Erik W. Chan, 55 
       S.E.C. 715, 725-33 (2002). 

129/   See, e.g., Gateway Int'l Holdings, 88 SEC Docket at 444-45 & n.48; KPMG Peat 
       Marwick LLP, 54 S.E.C. 1135, 1175 & n.100 (2001), petition denied, 289 F.3d 109 (D.C. 
       Cir. 2002); see also KPMG Peat Marwick, LLP v. SEC, 289 F.3d 109, 120 (D.C. Cir. 
       2002) ("[T]he Commission was virtually compelled by Congress' choice of language in 
       enacting Section 21C to interpret the phrase 'an act or omission the person knew or 
       should have known would contribute to such violation' as setting a negligence standard.") 
       (emphasis in original). 

130/   IFG Network Sec., Inc., Exchange Act Rel. No. 54127 (July 11, 2006), 88 SEC Docket 
       1374, 1389 (citing SEC v. Hughes Capital Corp., 124 F.3d 449, 453-54 (3d Cir. 1997)). 
---------------------Page 50---------------------

                                              47


statements and Deloitte's audit report, was a primary violation of Exchange Act Section 13(a) and 
Rules 13a-1 and 12b-20 thereunder. 131/ 

       By signing the audit report, Dearlove engaged in an act that contributed to Adelphia's 
primary violation. 132/  Because of the requirement in Regulation S-X that financial statements 
filed with annual reports be prepared in conformance with GAAP, without an unqualified audit 
opinion, Adelphia could not have filed its Form 10-K.  Thus, Dearlove should have known that 
his conduct of the audit (which, as noted above, failed to satisfy GAAS in a variety of ways) and 
his signature on the unqualified audit opinion contributed to the violation by allowing Adelphia 
to proceed to file the Form 10-K and the non-GAAP-compliant financial statements.  In the high-
risk auditing environment presented by the circumstances attending Deloitte's audit of Adelphia's 
2000 financial statements, with the array of potential problem areas discussed above, it is likely 
that an audit conducted in accordance with GAAS would have brought to Dearlove's attention 
some, if not all, of the GAAP violations we have found.  Dearlove, whose departures from 
GAAS were at least negligent, should have known that his deficient audit would contribute to 
Adelphia's primary violation.  For these reasons, we find that Dearlove was a cause of Adelphia's 
violations of Exchange Act Section 13(a) and Exchange Act Rules 13a-1 and 12b-20. 133/ 

       B.	    Cease-and-Desist Order 

       Exchange Act Section 21C(a) authorizes the Commission to impose a cease-and-desist 
order upon any person who "is violating, has violated, or is about to violate" any provision of the 
Exchange Act or any rule or regulation thereunder, or against any person who "is, was, or would 
be a cause of [a] violation, due to an act or omission the person knew or should have known 

131/	  Armstrong, 85 SEC Docket at 3029; KPMG, 54 S.E.C. at 1173-74 & n.97.  For the 
       reasons discussed above, we reject Dearlove's arguments that the financial statements 
       complied with GAAP and that there was therefore no primary violation of Exchange Act 
       Section 13(a) and Rules 13a-1 and 12b-20 thereunder by Adelphia. 

132/	  See KPMG, 54 S.E.C. at 1174-83 (holding that accounting firm's negligent conclusion 
       that it was independent from audit client was a cause of audit client's violation of 
       Exchange Act Section 13(a) and Rule 13a-1 thereunder based on filing of annual report 
       that included financial statements that were not, as required, audited by independent 
       accountants). 

133/	  Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A), requires issuers to 
       make and keep books, records, and accounts that, in reasonable detail, accurately and 
       fairly reflect their transactions and dispositions of assets.  The OIP charged, and the law 
       judge found, that Adelphia violated Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(A) and that Dearlove 
       was a cause of Adelphia's violation.  As a discretionary matter, we decline to reach the 
       question whether Dearlove engaged in an act or omission that was a cause of an 
       Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(A) violation within the meaning of Exchange Act Section 
       21C(a). 
---------------------Page 51---------------------

                                               48


would contribute to such violation." 134/  To determine whether a cease-and-desist order is an 
appropriate sanction for Dearlove's role in Adelphia's violations of the reporting requirements 
contained in Exchange Act Section 13(a) and related rules, we must look to whether there is 
some risk of future violations. 135/  The existence of a violation raises an inference that the 
violation will be repeated, and where the misconduct that results in the violation is egregious, the 
inference is justified. 136/  We also consider whether other factors demonstrate a risk of future 
violations.  Beyond the seriousness of the violation, these may include the isolated or recurrent 
nature of the violation, whether the violation is recent, the degree of harm to investors or the 
marketplace resulting from the violation, the respondent's state of mind, the sincerity of 
assurances against future violations, the opportunity to commit future violations, and the 
remedial function to be served by the cease-and-desist order in the context of any other sanctions 
sought in the proceeding. 137/  Not all of these factors need to be considered, and none of them, 
by itself, is dispositive. 

       The law judge declined to impose a cease-and-desist order because, having imposed a 
permanent bar on Dearlove's ability to appear or practice before the Commission that would have 
effectively precluded Dearlove from serving in any position in which he might cause future 
violations of Exchange Act Section 13(a) and related rules, the law judge concluded that the 
Division did not meet the minimum threshold required to impose a cease-and-desist order, i.e., 
that there exists some risk of future violations.  Because we are permitting Dearlove to apply for 
reinstatement after four years, that sanction does not obviate the need for a cease-and-desist 
order.  Dearlove may resume appearing or practicing before the Commission should he apply for, 
and be granted, reinstatement.  Dearlove may eventually, therefore, be once again in a position to 
violate or cause violations of the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. 

       The violations Dearlove caused were serious and of substantial import to investors.  His 
signature on Deloitte's unqualified audit opinion was a cause of Adelphia's filing of financial 
statements that were inaccurate in a number of ways and that masked the true financial condition 
of Adelphia as well as the company's interdependency with the Rigas Entities.  Revelation of the 
accounting deficiencies in Adelphia's financial statements would eventually result in harm to 

134/   15 U.S.C. § 78u-3(a). 

135/   KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, 54 S.E.C. at 1185.  The risk of future violations required to 
       support a cease-and-desist order is significantly less than that required for an injunction. 
       Id. at 1191; see also KPMG, 289 F.3d at 124 (finding that the plain language of Exchange 
       Act Section 21C and its legislative history support the Commission's issuance of a cease-
       and-desist order on the basis of a lower risk of future violation than that required for an 
       injunction). 

136/   See Geiger v. SEC, 363 F.3d 481, 489 (D.C. Cir. 2004) and cases cited therein. 

137/   KPMG, 54 S.E.C. at 1192. 
---------------------Page 52---------------------

                                               49


investors estimated to be at least $715 million, the amount of cash and stock Adelphia agreed to 
pay into a victims' restitution fund to help recompense harmed investors. 138/  Dearlove signed 
his unqualified opinion despite having conducted an audit that was seriously deficient in the face 
of numerous and obvious risk factors that called for increased professional care.  Although 
Dearlove's audit encompassed only one year's financial statements, the failures on this one audit 
were several and occurred in several auditing areas, the responsibility for which Dearlove 
consistently attempts to shift to others.  Moreover, while several years have elapsed since 
Dearlove completed the audit of Adelphia, this case is not so aged as to give comfort that the 
conduct will not be repeated, and, in any event, the other factors weigh strongly in favor of 
imposing a cease-and-desist order. 139/  We believe that the issuance of a cease-and-desist order 
will serve the important remedial purpose of encouraging Dearlove to discharge his 
responsibilities with more care in the future, thereby contributing to the integrity of, and investor 
confidence in, the financial reporting process. 

       We find that the record as a whole, especially the evidence with regard to the gravity of 
the violations and the harm to the marketplace and the regulatory scheme, establishes a sufficient 
risk that Dearlove would commit future violations to warrant imposition of a cease-and-desist 
order.  Based on all of these factors, we find a cease-and-desist order against Dearlove to be in 
the public interest. 140/ 

X.	    Dearlove's Due Process Argument 

       We conclude this opinion by addressing Dearlove's argument that the proceedings against 
him are defective because he was denied due process.  As explained in detail below, we reject his 
argument and find no basis for relief. 

138/	  See supra note 9 and accompanying text. 

139/	  See Armstrong, 85 SEC Docket at 3040 (imposing cease-and-desist order based on 
       conduct that occurred more than twelve years prior to the issuance of the Commission's 
       opinion, noting that, although the age of the violations militated against imposition of the 
       order, "this consideration [was] outweighed by the other factors" discussed in the 
       opinion); Rita J. McConville, Exchange Act Rel. No. 51950 (June 30, 2005), 85 SEC 
       Docket 3127, 3152 (imposing cease-and-desist order based on "relatively recent" conduct 
       that occurred more than five years prior to issuance of the Commission's opinion), aff'd, 
       465 F.3d 780 (7th Cir. 2006). 

140/	  See McConville, 85 SEC Docket at 3151-52 (imposing cease-and-desist order on 
       corporate officer for causing Section 13 violations based on, among other things, the 
       significance of the violations, harm caused to investors, and denial of responsibility for 
       violations charged), aff'd, 465 F.3d 780 (7th Cir. 2006). 
---------------------Page 53---------------------

                                               50


       A.      Facts 

       We issued the Order Institutuing Proceedings ("OIP")  in this matter on September 30, 
2005.  The OIP directed, pursuant to Commission Rule of Practice 360(a)(2), 141/ that the law 
judge issue an initial decision in this proceeding within 300 days from the date of service of the 
OIP.  The OIP was served on October 5, 2005, giving the law judge until August 5, 2006, to issue 
his initial decision.  

       On November 1, 2005, the law judge entered a scheduling order setting a January 23, 
2006, hearing date. 142/  On December 8, 2005, Dearlove moved for a sixty-day postponement 
of the hearing date on the ground that he did not have adequate time to prepare for the hearing. 
Dearlove argued that if he had to go forward on January 23, 2006, he would be prejudiced in his 
ability to defend himself, in violation of his Fifth Amendment right to due process. 

       Under Commission Rule of Practice 161(a), 143/ a law judge may, for good cause shown, 
postpone a hearing, consistent with Commission Rule of Practice 161(b).  Rule 161(b) states that 
a law judge must adhere to a policy of strongly disfavoring postponement motions, except in 
circumstances where the moving party makes a "strong showing" that denial of the motion would 
"substantially prejudice" its case. 144/  In determining whether to grant a motion for a 
postponement, the law judge should consider, in addition to any other relevant factors: (1) the 
length of the proceeding to date; (2) the number of postponements already granted; (3) the stage 
of the proceeding at the time of the request; (4) the impact of the request on the law judge's 
ability to complete the proceeding in the time specified by the Commission; and (5) such other 
matters as justice may require. 145/  The law judge weighed these factors and found that 
Dearlove failed to make the required "strong showing of substantial prejudice" to warrant a 
postponement. 

141/   Under Rule 360(a)(2), we must specify in the OIP a deadline for completion of the 
       hearing and issuance of the initial decision.  17 C.F.R. § 201.360(a)(2).  This deadline 
       will be either 120, 210, or 300 days, in our discretion, "after consideration of the nature, 
       complexity, and urgency of the subject matter, and with due regard for the public interest 
       and the protection of investors."  Id. 

142/   The order also recited that the parties had agreed to this schedule. 

143/   17 C.F.R. § 201.161(a). 

144/   17 C.F.R. § 201.161(b)(1). 

145/   17 C.F.R. § 201.161(b)(1)(i)-(v). 
---------------------Page 54---------------------

                                               51


       Dearlove petitioned for interlocutory review of the law judge's denial of a postponement. 
We denied the petition, finding no "extraordinary circumstances." 146/ 

       The hearing commenced on January 23, 2006, as scheduled, and extended over nine days. 
Dearlove was represented by counsel of his choice and submitted evidence about the merits of 
the allegations against him.  After the hearing, Dearlove renewed his argument that the denial of 
a sixty-day postponement deprived him of due process.  He also argued that the Commission's 
Rules of Practice, and Rule 360(a)(2) in particular, violated his right to due process. 

       In the initial decision, the law judge ruled that the denial of a sixty-day postponement did 
not violate Dearlove's due process rights.  The law judge declined to rule on Dearlove's claim that 
the Rules of Practice are unconstitutional.  He asserted that "any claim that the Rules of Practice 
are unconstitutional must be addressed to the Commission." 

       B.     Dearlove's Contentions on Appeal 

              1.      Dearlove argues that the denial of a sixty-day postponement deprived him 
of due process because he did not have adequate time to prepare for the hearing.  He cites the 
complexity of the case, as well as the large size of the investigative file, which "prevented 
effective preparation and caused exculpatory material to lie unreviewed."  Dearlove argues that 
he was given "less than four months" to prepare for the hearing, whereas the Division had "over 
three and a half years" to investigate the case.  He points to Helms's testimony, which was 
provided by the Division along with "millions of pages" of other documents in advance of the 
hearing, as "[t]he clearest example of undiscovered, and therefore unpresented, exculpatory 
evidence." 147/  Dearlove contends that, had he been afforded adequate time to prepare, he 
would have uncovered Helms's testimony among the mass of material provided to him, which 
would have refuted the law judge's finding, in connection with the January 2000 direct placement 
of stock, that "the $368 million loan [directed to Adelphia] was originally intended for UCA." 

       Dearlove additionally contends that the task of preparing for the hearing "was made more 
difficult by the Division's late production of adequate witness and exhibit lists, and its eleventh-
hour inclusion of allegations not specified in the OIP."  The failure of third parties, i.e., Adelphia, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers, and other Adelphia advisors, to produce documents in response to his 
subpoenas assertedly compounded the prejudice to his case. 

146/   Gregory M. Dearlove, CPA, Order Denying Application for Interlocutory Review, 
       Admin. Proc. File No. 3-12064 (Jan. 6, 2006) (citing 17 C.F.R. § 201.400(a) (providing 
       that "[t]he Commission will not review a hearing officer's ruling prior to its consideration 
       of the entire proceeding in the absence of extraordinary circumstances")). 

147/   See discussion supra at note 94 and accompanying text. 
---------------------Page 55---------------------

                                               52 

       Dearlove uses the United States Supreme Court's due process analysis in Mathews v. 
Eldridge 148/ to argue that the denial of a sixty-day postponement deprived him of due process. 
In Mathews, the Supreme Court spoke of a balancing of three factors to determine what process 
is due in a given case: (1) the nature of the private interest affected by the official action; (2) the 
risk of erroneous deprivation of such an interest through the procedures used and the probable 
value of additional or substitute procedural safeguards; and (3) the government's interest, 
including the "function involved and the fiscal and administrative burdens that the additional or 
substitute procedural safeguards would entail." 149/  Dearlove characterizes the private interest at 
stake as his protected property interest in appearing and practicing before the Commission. 150/ 
He asserts that, "[b]ecause of the private interest at stake, the risk of an erroneous deprivation of 
the interest, and the Government's interest in the accurate determination of this matter, Dearlove 
was entitled to sufficient time to prepare his defense, and therefore to a continuance."  

               2.     Dearlove argues, without citation to any authority, that Rule of Practice 
360(a)(2) violates due process.  He characterizes the hearing schedules in Commission 
administrative proceedings as "rigid" and "inflexible."  Dearlove argues that Rule 360(a)(2) takes 
"a one-size-fits-all approach [that] does not adequately safeguard an individual's due process 
rights."  Dearlove finds support for his constitutional challenge to Rule 360(a)(2) in the law 
judge's finding that his argument "echoed" some of the public comments submitted during the 
rulemaking proceeding that led to Rule 360(a)(2)'s adoption. 151/ 

148/	  424 U.S. 319 (1976). 

149/	  Id. at 335. 

150/	  Dearlove cites various licensing cases, as well as the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals' 
       decision in Sartain v. SEC, 601 F.2d 1366 (9th Cir. 1979), to support his claim of a 
       protected property interest.  In Sartain, the court held that due process entitled a broker-
       dealer’s registered representative to a fair hearing before the Commission and the right to 
       be represented by independent counsel where the registered representative stood to lose 
       the "valuable privilege" of being employed in the securities industry.  Id. at 1375; see also 
       Michael J. Crane, Note, Disciplinary Proceedings Against Accountants: The Need for a 
       More Ascertainable Improper Professional Conduct Standard in the SEC's Rule 2(e), 53 
       Fordham L. Rev. 351 (1984) (stating that an accountant has a property interest in his right 
       to practice before the Commission that may not be terminated without due process).  

151/	  See Letter from the District of Columbia Bar, Corporation, Finance and Securities Law 
       Section to the Commission (Mar. 21, 2003); Letter from the American Bar Association, 
       Section of Business Law, Committee on Federal Regulation of Securities to the 
       Commission (May 13, 2003), available at http://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed/ 
       s70403.html. 
---------------------Page 56---------------------

                                               53


       C.	     Denial of Sixty-Day Extension 

       In Ungar v. Sarafite, 152/ the Supreme Court articulated the standard for analyzing a due 
process challenge to the denial of a continuance: 

               The matter of a continuance is traditionally within the discretion of the trial judge, 
               and it is not every denial of a request for more time that violates due process even 
               if the party fails to offer evidence or is compelled to defend without counsel. 
               Contrariwise, a myopic insistence upon expeditiousness in the face of a justifiable 
               request for delay can render the right to defend with counsel an empty formality. 
               There are no mechanical tests for deciding when a denial of a continuance is so 
               arbitrary as to violate due process.  The answer must be found in the 
               circumstances present in every case, particularly in the reasons presented to the 
               trial judge at the time the request is denied. 153/ 

       We have consistently followed the principles articulated in Ungar.  We have recognized 
that the trier of fact has discretion in deciding whether to grant a motion for a postponement or 
continuance. 154/  We have stated that our inquiry on review of a denial of a postponement or 
continuance is whether the denial constituted "an unreasoning and arbitrary insistence upon 
expeditiousness in the face of a justifiable request for delay." 155/ 

152/	  376 U.S. 575 (1964). 

153/	  Id. at 589-90; accord Morris v. Slappy, 461 U.S. 1, 11-12 (1983) ("[B]road discretion 
       must be granted trial courts on matters of continuances; only an unreasoning and arbitrary 
       'insistence upon expeditiousness in the face of a justifiable request for delay' violates the 
       right to assistance of counsel.") (citing Ungar). 

154/	  See, e.g., Underhill Sec. Corp., 42 S.E.C. 689, 699 (1965) (stating that "[t]he 
       determination whether to grant a continuance was a matter resting in the sound discretion 
       of the [hearing] examiner"; examiner's denial of one-month adjournment to give counsel 
       more time to prepare his defense was a proper exercise of that discretion where any lack 
       of preparation by respondents' counsel was a result of their own dilatory conduct, and 
       where counsel conducted a vigorous defense in the course of the hearings which extended 
       over many weeks and was afforded the opportunity to recall any witness and to request 
       additional time). 

155/   See, e.g., Richard W. Suter, 47 S.E.C. 951, 963 (1983) (holding that law judge's refusal to 
       grant further postponements of hearing was not an abuse of discretion or "unreasoning 
       and arbitrary insistence upon expeditiousness" where hearing already had been delayed 
       for a long period of time); Gary L. Jackson, 48 S.E.C. 435, 441 (1986) (holding that law 
       judge's refusal to permit respondent's various requests for postponement of the hearing 
       was not an abuse of discretion or "unreasoning and arbitrary insistence upon 
                                                                                    (continued...) 
---------------------Page 57---------------------

                                               54


       A review of our precedent applying this standard reveals that most cases have held that 
the trier of fact's denial of a postponement was not an abuse of discretion and did not violate due 
process. 156/  In the "rare" cases where the denial was deemed to be improper, we have found 
that there were "extraordinary circumstances" supporting a postponement, i.e., the respondent 
was left without assistance of counsel at or near the hearing date. 157/ 

155/	  (...continued) 
       expeditiousness"; "[w]hile a respondent has the right to be represented by counsel, the 
       law does not require endless postponements of judicial proceedings while respondents 
       attempt to secure legal representation"). 

156/	  See, e.g., Falcon Trading Group, Ltd., 52 S.E.C. 554, 560-61 (1995) (finding no due 
       process violation in NASD's denial of applicants' motions for continuance and adherence 
       to the previously-scheduled hearing date where applicants were given six weeks' notice of 
       the hearing date, and they had sufficient time to obtain new counsel after discovering that 
       joint counsel had potential conflict of interest), aff'd, 102 F.3d 579 (D.C. Cir. 1996); 
       Alexander V. Stein, 52 S.E.C. 296, 300-01 (1995) (finding no due process violation in 
       law judge's denial of a postponement where respondent had well over a month to prepare 
       any defense to the allegations in the OIP, he failed to claim that he could not defend 
       himself without certain materials or witnesses, and he failed to specify those materials 
       that he claimed to need);  Michael Markowski, 51 S.E.C. 553, 558-59 (1993) (finding no 
       due process violation in NASD's refusal to grant an additional continuance of the second 
       hearing date where hearing panel had already granted counsel a continuance of the second 
       hearing date, and attorneys gave no indication to panel prior to rescheduled hearing that 
       they would not be ready to go forward at that time), aff'd, 34 F.3d 99 (2d Cir. 1994).  

157/	  See, e.g., Philip L. Pascale, CPA, Order Granting Postponement of Administrative 
       Hearing, Admin. Proc. File No. 3-11194 (Nov. 24, 2003) (holding, on interlocutory 
       review of a law judge's denial of a postponement request, that respondent demonstrated 
       substantial prejudice warranting a short postponement of the hearing where the medical 
       condition of respondent's counsel was incapacitating, and counsel learned about this 
       condition so close to the hearing that substitute counsel could not be obtained; the 
       Commission acknowledged that "[t]he substantial prejudice test is a difficult one to 
       meet," but found, in this "rare" case, that respondent's request presented "extraordinary 
       circumstances"); Carleton Wade Fleming, Jr., 52 S.E.C. 409, 415 (1995) (holding that 
       NASD's refusal to grant a continuance was improper where counsel had withdrawn and 
       respondent was required to proceed and present his case for three days of hearing, without 
       assistance of counsel, despite NASD Code of Procedure provision granting a right to be 
       heard by counsel); James Elderidge Cartwright, 50 S.E.C. 1174, 1178 (1992) (holding 
       that NASD's refusal to grant a continuance was unreasonable where respondent was ill on 
       the hearing date and demonstrated his inability to proceed, and NASD Code of Procedure 
       gave the respondent the right to be heard in person and by counsel).  
---------------------Page 58---------------------

                                               55


       This proceeding is not one of those "rare" cases.  Dearlove received notice of the charges 
no later than October 5, 2005, when he was served with the OIP, and had three and a half months 
to prepare for the hearing.  The schedule here provided 121 days from service of the OIP to 
completion of the hearing; 82 days for the parties to review the transcript and submit post-
hearing briefs; and 92 days for the law judge to prepare and file an initial decision. 158/  This 
schedule was consistent with the guidelines in Rule 360(a)(2).  In fact, it afforded the parties 
more time than allotted.  Moreover, at a pre-hearing conference on October 28, 2005, Dearlove's 
counsel agreed with the law judge's statement that this case did not "just drop[] on [counsel's] 
desk" for the first time on October 5, 2005, when Dearlove was served with the OIP.  Dearlove's 
counsel acknowledged that he had been formally involved in this proceeding since at least 2003 
when the Division took Dearlove's investigative testimony.  In Dearlove's counsel's words, he 
was no "stranger[]" to any of the issues raised in the proceeding.  

       On appeal, Dearlove cites his failure to find and review Helms's testimony prior to the 
hearing as the only evidence that the denial of a postponement prejudiced his case. 159/  Any 
prejudice resulting from the omission of this evidence has been cured by our admission of this 
testimony under Rule 452.  In any event, our review of Helms's testimony leads us to conclude 
that this testimony is irrelevant to the issues of Dearlove's liability. 160/

        In our order denying Dearlove's motion for interlocutory review, we rejected Dearlove's 
claim that the complexity of the case and large size of the investigative file justified a 
postponement.  Observing that many Commission proceedings involve complicated issues 
resulting in voluminous files, we stated that we already had considered the complexity of the case 
when, pursuant to Rule 360(a)(2), we selected the 300-day timeline for issuing the initial 
decision.  We considered and rejected Dearlove's argument that the law judge believed the only 
"barrier" to his postponement request was the 300-day deadline, stating that "[t]he deadlines for 
issuing initial decisions are not [absolute] 'barriers' to requests for postponements." 161/  The law 
judge considered the 300-day deadline as one of several factors in determining whether to grant a 
request for a postponement and denied the postponement request only after weighing all of the 

158/   For a 300-day timeline, Rule 360(a)(2) provides that there should be 120 days from the 
       date of service of the OIP to completion of the hearing, 60 days for the parties to obtain 
       the transcript and submit post-hearing briefs; and 120 days after briefing for the law judge 
       to prepare and file an initial decision.  17 C.F.R. § 201.360(a)(2). 

159/   Cf. DWS Sec. Corp., 51 S.E.C. 814, 822-23 (1993) (finding no due process violation in 
       NASD's refusal to grant applicants' requests for a continuance; applicants, who had 
       approximately two months to prepare for their initial hearing before NASD, failed to 
       explain how they were specifically prejudiced by the denial of their requests). 

160/   See supra note 92 and accompanying text. 

161/   Dearlove, Order Denying Application for Interlocutory Review, supra note 146, at 3-4 
       n.10. 
---------------------Page 59---------------------

                                               56


relevant factors. 162/  Moreover, under Rule 360(a)(3), a law judge who decides that it will not 
be possible to issue an initial decision within the time specified in the OIP should consult with 
the chief law judge who, in turn, may submit a motion to us requesting an extension. 163/  Rule 
360(a)(3) states that the motion should "explain[] why circumstances require an extension and 
specify[] the length of the extension."  It further provides that we may authorize an extension if 
we determine that "additional time is necessary or appropriate in the public interest."  Although 
the law judge did not avail himself of these procedures, the option to do so provided some 
flexibility if he decided that the case required more than 300 days to complete.  

       The record does not support Dearlove's contention that his hearing preparation was 
frustrated by the Division's late production of adequate witness and exhibit lists.  The law judge 
required the Division to amend its witness and exhibit lists because those lists were 
deficient. 164/  To minimize any possible prejudice, the law judge modified his scheduling order 
to give Dearlove several extra weeks to identify his proposed exhibits and fact witnesses. 
Although Dearlove also complains about what he characterizes as the Division's "eleventh-hour" 
inclusion of allegations not specified in the OIP, the law judge refused to entertain those 
allegations.  Dearlove cannot now claim that they caused him any harm.

        The record shows that the delays Dearlove encountered in obtaining documents from 
third parties were foreseeable.  The law judge encouraged Dearlove to submit his applications for 
document subpoenas at an early date, but Dearlove delayed doing so for one month. 

       Furthermore, we reject Dearlove's use of the balancing test in Mathews.  The Supreme 
Court has stated that it has "never viewed Mathews as announcing an all-embracing test for 
deciding due process claims." 165/  As discussed above, Ungar supplies the proper analytical 
framework.  We, as well as the federal courts, have used Ungar's principles in assessing a due 
process challenge to the denial of a postponement.  Dearlove has not offered any grounds to 
justify a departure from this well-established practice, and we perceive no basis for doing so. 

162/	  See Rule 161(b)(1), 17 C.F.R. § 201.161(b)(1) (setting forth several factors the 
       decisionmaker must consider in determining whether to grant an extension of time). 

163/	  17 C.F.R. § 201.360(a)(3).  See, e.g., Raymond James Fin. Serv., Inc., Securities Act Rel. 
       No. 8597 (July 29, 2005), 85 SEC Docket 4318, 4320 (granting forty-five-day extension 
       "[i]n light of the complexity of the case, the scheduling conflict identified by the Chief 
       Administrative Law Judge, and the reasonableness of the requested extension"). 

164/	  Gregory M. Dearlove, CPA, Order Following Prehearing Conference, Admin. Proc. File 
       No. 3-12064 (Dec. 9, 2005). 

165/	  Dusenbery v. United States, 534 U.S. 161, 168 (2002). 
---------------------Page 60---------------------

                                               57


       Even if we were to find that Mathews supplies the proper analysis, we believe application 
of Mathews' three-factor balancing test also leads to the conclusion that the process provided to 
Dearlove was adequate.  Although the nature of the private interest affected, i.e., Dearlove's right 
to practice before the Commission, militates in Dearlove's favor, the other factors do not.  As 
demonstrated above, the risk that Dearlove was erroneously deprived of his right to practice was 
negligible: he received notice of the allegations against him, a full administrative hearing, the 
opportunity to respond to the allegations, and the opportunity for our review of the proceedings. 
In addition, the government's interest in the timely resolution of its administrative hearings was 
balanced against Dearlove's need for a meaningful process, as evidenced by the many 
concessions made by the law judge in Dearlove's favor detailed above.  Mathews does not require 
us to provide more process than Dearlove received. 166/ 

       D.      Commission Rule of Practice 360

        In the June 2003 release adopting Rule 360(a)(2), we rejected a "one-size-fits-all" 
approach to timely disposition of administration proceedings. 167/  As a result, we established 
three different deadlines for the completion of administrative proceedings.  Moreover, as 
discussed above, Rule 360(a)(3) allows for the possibility of an extension of time where 
circumstances warrant.  Although it is true that two of eleven commenters suggested that the 
proposed timeline implicated due process concerns, neither one offered any case authority 
holding that an agency's establishment of deadlines for the timely disposition of cases violates 
due process, and our research has uncovered no such authority.  In response to these commenters' 
concerns, we amended Rule 230(d) to provide for the earlier production of the investigative 
record to respondents.  Under Rule 230(d), the Division of Enforcement is required to make its 
investigative file available to a respondent within seven days after service of the OIP, or, in this 
case, by October 12, 2005.  The Division notified Dearlove that the investigative file was 
available for his review on October 5, 2005, one week before it was required to do so by 
Rule 230(d).  In sum, we find Dearlove's due process challenge to these proceedings to be 
without merit. 

166/   See Mathews, 424 U.S. at 333 ("The fundamental requirement of due process is the 
       opportunity to be heard at a meaningful time and in a meaningful manner.") (internal 
       quotations omitted). 

167/   See Rules of Practice, Securities Act Rel. No. 8240 (June 11, 2003), 80 SEC Docket 
       1463. 
---------------------Page 61---------------------

                                              58


XI.    Conclusion 

       We find that Dearlove engaged in improper professional conduct within the meaning of 
Rule of Practice 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) and that he caused Adelphia's violations of Exchange Act 
Section 13(a) and related rules.  We therefore deny Dearlove the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before the Commission with a right to reapply after four years, and we order him to 
cease and desist from causing violations of Exchange Act Section 13(a) and related rules. 

       An appropriate order will issue. 168/ 

       By the Commission (Chairman COX and Commissioners ATKINS, NAZARETH, and 
CASEY). 

                                                   Nancy M. Morris
                                                          Secretary 

168/   We have considered all of the parties' contentions.  We have rejected or sustained them to 
       the extent that they are inconsistent or in accord with the views expressed in this opinion. 
---------------------Page 62---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

                                        before the

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Rel. No. 57244 / January 31, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Rel. No. 2779 / January 31, 2008 

Admin. Proc. File No. 3-12064 

                    In the Matter of


           GREGORY M. DEARLOVE, CPA


ORDER IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 

      On the basis of the Commission's opinion issued this day, it is 

      ORDERED that, effective immediately: 

      A.     Gregory M. Dearlove cease and desist from causing any violation of the reporting 
provisions of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Exchange Act Rules 
13a-1 and 12b-20. 

      B.     Gregory M. Dearlove is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant. 

      C.     After four years from the date of this order, Dearlove may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

             1.     A preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company's financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Dearlove's work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
---------------------Page 63---------------------

                                                2 

              2.      An independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 

                      (a)    Dearlove, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board ("Board") in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)    Dearlove, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of 
or potential defects in the respondent's or the firm's quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision or, if the Board has not conducted an 
inspection, has received an unqualified report relating to his, or the firm's, most recent peer 
review conducted in accordance with the guidelines adopted by the former SEC Practice Section 
of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Division for CPA Firms or an 
organization providing equivalent oversight and quality control functions; 

                      (c)    Dearlove has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      (d)    Dearlove acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Dearlove 
appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews, and quality control standards. 

       D.     The Commission will consider an application by Dearlove to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission's review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Dearlove's character, 
integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 

       By the Commission. 

                                                    Nancy M. Morris
                                                          Secretary 
