---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                      the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 58232 / July 25, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2848 / July 25, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13102 

                                        : 
                                        : 
                                        : 
      In the Matter of                  :     ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                        :     PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
     FRANCES M. JEWELS,                 :     102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                        :     PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
             Respondent.                :     IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                        : 
                                        : 
____________________________________ : 

                                          I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Frances 
M. Jewels (“Respondent” or “Jewels”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1 

1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 

      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . attorney, accountant . . 
. or other professional . . . who has been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of 
competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the 
Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal 
securities laws or of the rules and regulations thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  

              1.      Jewels, age 43, is and has been an attorney licensed to practice in the 
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and has been a certified public accountant licensed to practice in 
the State of New York.  She served as Chief Financial Officer, Vice President of Finance and 
Administration, Secretary and Treasurer of Sycamore Networks, Inc. (“Sycamore”) from 
approximately mid-1999 until October 2004.  Thereafter, she served as an adviser to Sycamore until 
October 2005. 

              2.      Sycamore was, at all relevant times, a Delaware corporation with its 
principal place of business in Chelmsford, Massachusetts.  During the relevant period, Sycamore 
was engaged in the business of developing and marketing optical networking products for 
telecommunications service providers and government entities.  At all relevant times, Sycamore’s 
common stock was registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Exchange Act”) and traded on the Nasdaq National Market System.   

              3.      On July 10, 2008, a final judgment was entered against Jewels, permanently 
enjoining her from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 and Sections 
10(b), 13(b)(5), 14(a) and 16(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1, 13b2-2, 13a-14, 
14a-9 and 16a-3 thereunder, and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder, in the 
civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Sycamore Networks, Inc., et al., Civil 
Action Number 08-CA-11166(DPW), in the United States District Court for the District of 
Massachusetts.  Jewels was also ordered to pay $30,000 in disgorgement, together with 
prejudgment interest thereon in the amount of $4,980.04; to reimburse Sycamore $190,000 
consisting of cash bonuses she received from 2003 through 2004; to pay a $230,000 civil money 
penalty; and was barred from serving as an officer or director of a public company for five years. 

              4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Jewels, in 

 connection with the granting of “in-the-money” stock options and resulting underreporting of 


                                               2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

 expenses, made materially false and misleading statements in various Form 10-K annual reports, 
 Form 10-Q quarterly reports, Form 8-K current reports, and proxy statements during periods 
 including fiscal years 2000 through 2004.  The complaint further alleged that Jewels made “in-
 the-money” options grants to employees in connection with company-wide grants which were 
 issued on dates on which the market price of Sycamore’s stock was at or near the low for the 
 period, but failed to record associated stock-based compensation expenses, and backdated other 
 grants, such as new hire and promotional grants, which had significant options expense 
 implications that she disregarded.  The complaint further alleged that Jewels was the recipient of 
 at least two grants of “in-the-money” stock options to Company officers issued as of the same 
 dates as company-wide grants and, although Jewels did not directly authorize the grants to 
 herself and other officers, she knew that the favorable grant dates that she selected for the 
 company wide grants would be applied to her options as well, and failed to record compensation 
 expenses related to the officer grants.    

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Jewels’ Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     Jewels is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
attorney for five years.  After five years from the date of this order, Jewels has the right to apply for 
reinstatement to appear or practice before the Commission as an attorney by submitting an affidavit 
to the Commission’s Office of the General Counsel truthfully stating, under penalty of perjury, that 
she has complied with this Order, that she is not subject to any suspension or disbarment as an 
attorney by a court of the United States or of any state territory, district, commonwealth, or 
possession, and that she has not been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor involving moral 
turpitude as set forth in Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 

       B.     Jewels is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   

       C.     After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider her reinstatement by submitting an application (attention:  Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in her practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which she works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as she practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 

                                               3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 

                      (a)    Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which she is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which 
she is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any 
criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that 
would indicate that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision;

               (c)           Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      (d)    Respondent acknowledges her responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 

       D.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant provided that her state 
CPA license is current and she has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable 
state boards of accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by 
the Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

 By       the Commission. 

       F                                             lorence E. Harmon
       A                                              cting Secretary 

                                               4

