---------------------Page 1---------------------

   

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  

                                         Before the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 59817 / April 23, 2009 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No.  2966 / April 23, 2009 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-11714 

                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE
In the Matter of 
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Bryan E. Palbaum, CPA  
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION  
                          
        

       On October 20, 2004, Bryan E. Palbaum (“Palbaum”) was denied the privilege of 
appearing or practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against Palbaum pursuant to Rule 
102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                                   This order is issued in response to 
Palbaum’s application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 

         Palbaum was alleged to have engaged in improper professional conduct in connection 
with performing the reviews and audits of the financial statements filed by Gemstar-TV Guide 
International, Inc. (“Gemstar”) from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2000 through the fiscal year 
ended March 31, 2002.  During most of this time, Palbaum was employed as the co-engagement 
partner for KPMG LLP’s audits and reviews of the financial statements of Gemstar.  The 
Commission alleged that Palbaum failed to exercise professional care and skepticism, failed to 
obtain sufficient competent evidential matter and over-relied on Gemstar’s management 
representations with respect to the audit and review of Gemstar’s financial statements.  In 
addition, Palbaum failed to take appropriate action to correct disclosures that did not comply 
with GAAP and were inconsistent with Gemstar’s financial statements.  Finally, Palbaum failed 
to render accurate audit reports. 
                                               
                                                 
1 
 See  Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2125 dated October 20, 2004.  Palbaum was permitted,   
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after three years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                     

       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Palbaum  
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Palbaum is not, at this time, seeking to 
appear or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to 
resume appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will 
be required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Palbaum’s 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Palbaum, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the October 20, 2004 order 
denying him the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, 
that no information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, 
integrity, professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be 
a basis for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of 
Practice, and that Palbaum, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit 
committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, in his practice before the Commission as a preparer     or reviewer of financial 
statements required to be filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  
Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Bryan E. Palbaum, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                               
                                               
                                              Elizabeth Murphy 
                                              Secretary 
                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3)  
of this section may be made at any time, and the applic ant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated                         
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i).                        
 

                                                 2
 
