---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  

                                         Before the 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 58280 / August 1, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No.  2856 / August 1, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-10664 

                           : 
                             CORRECTED 
                           : 
In the Matter of 
                           : 
                             ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           : 
Jeffrey Bacsik, CPA          REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
                           : 
                             BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           : 

       On December 27, 2001, Jeffrey Bacsik (“Bacsik”) was denied the privilege of appearing 
or practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public administrative 
proceedings instituted by the Commission against Bacsik pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                 Bacsik consented to the entry of the December 27, 2001 order 
without admitting or denying the findings therein.  This order is issued in response to Bacsik’s 
application for reinstatement to practice before the Commission as an accountant. 

       Bacsik served as the engagement partner for Deloitte & Touche LLP’s (“Deloitte”) audits 
of Fine Host Corporation’s (“Fine Host”) financial statements for fiscal year 1996.  Bacsik also 
served as the engagement partner for the audits of Fine Host’s financial statements for fiscal 
years 1993 through 1995 that were incorporated in a Form S-1 that went effective on June 19, 
1996.  The Commission found that Fine Host engaged in an extensive financial fraud that, when 
detected, resulted in the collapse of its stock price and, eventually, the end of its existence as a 
public company.  The fraud involved, as its primary mechanism, the improper capitalization of 
millions of dollars in company expenses as assets.  Fine Host also manipulated acquisition 
reserve accounts, income from vendor rebates and other items for the purpose of managing 
reported earnings.  Bacsik, as the engagement partner on the Deloitte audit team, failed to ensure 
that the audit team conducted appropriate audit procedures, in many instances improperly relying 
on representations of Fine Home management as the source of audit evidence.  This failure to 
exercise due professional care, ensure that the audit team obtained sufficient competent 

1 
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 1482 dated December 27, 2001.  Bacsik was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after two years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

evidential matter and maintain an attitude of professional skepticism constituted improper 
professional conduct under Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 

       Bacsik has met all of the conditions set forth in the original order and, in his capacity as 
an independent accountant, has stated that he will comply with all requirements of the 
Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, including, but not limited to 
all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
control standards.  In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the 
preparation or review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the 
Commission, Bacsik attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent 
audit committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, while practicing before the Commission in this capacity.   

       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 

        On the basis of the information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed 
to by Bacsik, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the December 27, 2001 order 
denying him the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, 
that no information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, 
integrity, professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be 
a basis for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of 
Practice, and that Bacsik, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit 
committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, in his practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial 
statements required to be filed with the Commission, and that Bacsik, by undertaking to comply 
with all requirements of the Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, 
including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring 
partner reviews and quality control standards, in his practice before the Commission as an 
independent accountant has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 

2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 

“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Jeffrey Bacsik, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant. 

       By the Commission. 

                                                         Florence E. Harmon  
                                                         Acting Secretary 
