---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                     the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  59007 / November 24, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2903 / November 24, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13297 

                                       : 
                                       : 
                                       : 
      In the Matter of                 :      ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                       :      PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
             ANNIE ASTOR-              :      102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
             CARBONELL (CPA)           :      PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                       :      IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
             Respondent.               : 
                                       : 
                                       : 
____________________________________ : 

                                          I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Annie 
Astor-Carbonell (“Astor”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.1 

1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 

      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Astor has submitted an Offer of 
Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose 
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the 
findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Astor consents to the entry of this 
Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules 
of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  

       1.     Astor, age 50, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to practice in the 
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.  She served as a Member of the Board of Directors, Senior 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of First BanCorp during the relevant period.  
In September 2005, Astor resigned from her management role and as a member of the Board.  She 
retired from First BanCorp effective October 31, 2005.     

       2.     First BanCorp is one of the largest financial holding companies in Puerto Rico.  First 
BanCorp provides commercial banking services through a network of offices in Puerto Rico and the 
U.S. Virgin Islands.  First BanCorp’s common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to 
Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and is listed on the New 
York Stock Exchange.    

       3.     On October 17, 2008, a final judgment was entered against Astor, permanently 
enjoining her from future violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1 
and 13b2-2 thereunder, and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder, in the civil action entitled 
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Angel Alvarez-Perez and Annie Astor-Carbonell, Civil 
Action Number 08-CV-08009 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New 
York.  Astor was ordered to pay a $75,000 civil money penalty. 

       4.     The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that First BanCorp 
senior management, including Astor, concealed the true nature of over $4 billion worth of 
mortgage-related transactions from the company’s independent auditor and the investing public 
between 2000 and 2005.  First BanCorp, which purportedly purchased the mortgages, profited 
from these transactions by earning over $100 million in net interest income with minimal risk.  The 
contra-party to the transactions, Doral Financial Corporation, which purportedly sold the 
mortgages to First BanCorp, improperly recognized income on these transactions during the 
relevant period.  First BanCorp senior management, including Astor, also created and backdated 

                                               2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

certain documents and affirmatively misrepresented the terms of certain mortgage-related 
transactions to First BanCorp’s independent auditor to avoid a restatement in November 2004.   

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Astor’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     Astor is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   

       B.     After five (5) years from the date of this order, Astor may request that the 
Commission consider her reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Astor’s work in her practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which she works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as she practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 

              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 

                      (a)    Astor, or the public accounting firm with which she is associated, 
is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance 
with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)    Astor, or the registered public accounting firm with which she is 
associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of 
or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that she will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)    Astor has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has 
complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      (d)    Astor acknowledges her responsibility, as long as she appears or 
practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all requirements 
of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to 
registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   

                                               3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that her CPA license is current 
and she has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable boards of 
accountancy.  However, if licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the 
Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review 
may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters 
relating to Astor’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or 
practice before the Commission. 

 By       the Commission. 

       F                                             lorence E. Harmon
       A                                             cting Secretary 

                                               4

