---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                           STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                    the 

                  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  56469 / September 19, 2007 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2720 / September 19, 2007 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12810 
                                            ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                            ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
                                             PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
In the Matter of                             COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                             MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
ROBERT M. HARBRECHT, CPA, and                REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
BRIAN R. SPIRES, CPA 

Respondents. 

                                        I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Robert M. Harbrecht, CPA 
(“Harbrecht”) and Brian R. Spires, CPA (“Spires”), pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice.1 

1
 Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 

      The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper 
professional conduct. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have each submitted an 
Offer of Settlement (“Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds2
                                                                                that: 

A.     SUMMARY 

       1.     These proceedings concern the improper professional conduct, within the meaning 
of  Commission Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2), of Robert M. Harbrecht and Brian R. Spires (collectively 
the “Respondents”) in connection with the audit of the 2000 consolidated financial statements 
(“2000 audit”) of National Century Financial Enterprises, Inc. (“NCFE”), a Dublin, Ohio privately 
owned healthcare finance company.  Harbrecht was the engagement partner for Deloitte & Touche 
LLP’s (“Deloitte”) audits of NCFE for the years ended 1999 through 2001, and Spires was the 
engagement manager for the 1999 and 2000 year-end audits.  Deloitte completed the 2000 audit in 
May 2001. 

       2.     NCFE operated programs through which special purpose subsidiaries conducted 
private placement note offerings, the proceeds of which were used to purchase healthcare 
receivables. NCFE represented to the note holders that NCFE would use the proceeds from the 
note offerings exclusively for the purchase of patient-specific healthcare accounts receivable.  
Although NCFE used note holder funds to purchase healthcare accounts receivable, NCFE used a 
substantial portion of the private placement proceeds to make either unsecured loans or loans 
secured by collateral other than healthcare accounts receivable (“non-permitted advances”), 
contrary to NCFE’s representations to note holders and contrary to the requirements of the master 
trust indentures (“indentures”) that governed NCFE’s programs.  The quality of the receivables 
purchased in the programs was material to note holders because the pool of purchased receivables 
was the sole source from which note holders would be repaid.  As part of a complex scheme, 
NCFE concealed its non-permitted uses of note holder funds by, among other things, making false 
and misleading statements in its annual financial statements, including in the 2000 consolidated 
financial statements (“2000 Financials”) and by making false and misleading statements to its note 
holders, the program trustees, rating agencies, and the auditors. 

2
  The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
                                               2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

       3.     As the engagement partner, Harbrecht signed an unqualified audit report for the 
2000 audit and had overall responsibility for the planning and execution of the 2000 audit.  As the 
engagement manager, Spires also participated in the planning and execution of the 2000 audit.  
Respondents failed to plan and execute the 2000 audit in accordance with generally accepted 
auditing standards (“GAAS”).  They failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to 
corroborate that NCFE’s receivables portfolio consisted of purchased healthcare accounts 
receivables or to properly evaluate the adequacy of NCFE’s allowance for losses relating to those 
receivables. Respondents also did not properly evaluate red flags during the audit which should 
have alerted them to NCFE’s non-permitted advances and its borrowers’ inability to repay those 
advances.  Additionally, Respondents failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter with 
regard to the nature and substance of material related party transactions.  Many of these 
transactions with related parties were non-permitted advances.   

       4.     These audit deficiencies caused Harbrecht to sign an unqualified audit report that 
erroneously stated that NCFE’s 2000 Financials were prepared in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and that Deloitte conducted its audit in accordance with 
GAAS.  Respondents engaged in improper professional conduct as defined in Rule 102(e) 
(1)(iv)(B)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice in connection with the 2000 audit. 

B.     RESPONDENTS 

       5.     Robert M. Harbrecht, age 57, of Worthington, Ohio, joined Deloitte as an auditor in 
1972 and was a partner from 1984 until he retired in 2004.  Harbrecht is a certified public 
accountant in the state of Ohio and was licensed in Ohio until he allowed his license to lapse in 
early 2006. Harbrecht served as the engagement partner on the 1999 through 2001 audits of 
NCFE.  At the time of the NCFE audits, Harbrecht had more than twenty-five years of auditing 
experience, including extensive experience in the financial services industry, and he served on 
Deloitte’s National Banking Committee. 

       6.     Brian R. Spires, age 47, of New Albany, Ohio, joined Deloitte as an auditor in 1988 
and was a senior manager from 1998 until he left Deloitte in 2001.  Spires is a licensed certified 
public accountant in the state of Ohio.  Spires served as the manager on the 1999 and 2000 audits 
of NCFE. At the time of the NCFE audits, Spires had more than ten years of auditing experience, 
with a specialization in the financial services industry. 

C.     OTHER RELEVANT ENTITY 

       7.     Deloitte & Touche LLP is a Delaware limited liability partnership whose principal 
offices are located in New York, New York.  Deloitte provides, among other things, audit 
assurance and business advisory services.  Deloitte has numerous branches domestically and 
abroad, including a branch in Columbus, Ohio.  Deloitte served as auditor for NCFE for the 1999 
to 2001 audits. 

                                               3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

D.     FACTS 


                                      NCFE Background 

       8.      NCFE was an Ohio corporation with its principal place of business in Dublin, Ohio 
until it filed for bankruptcy in November 2002.  From 1991 through 2002, NCFE operated 
programs through which special purpose subsidiaries purchased medical accounts receivable from 
healthcare providers. The programs raised funds for the purchase of accounts receivable through 
private offerings of highly rated debt securities to institutional investors (“note holders” or 
“investors”).  NCFE represented to note holders that the programs would use the note proceeds 
exclusively to purchase patient-specific medical accounts receivable from healthcare providers.  
The programs and note offerings were structured as asset-backed securitizations, with the notes 
being fully collateralized by the purchased medical accounts receivable and cash reserves held in 
the programs.  From 1991 through 2002, NCFE’s subsidiaries issued more than $17 billion in 
asset-backed bonds or notes through private placements. 

       9.      NCFE’s programs were set out in a series of agreements between the special 
purpose subsidiaries, healthcare providers, program trustees, and note holders, including, among 
other things, an indenture which outlined the respective parties’ rights and obligations.  The 
indentures allowed the programs to engage only in one type of business activity: the purchase of 
“eligible” medical accounts receivable of a hospital, physicians’ group, or other healthcare 
provider. Eligible receivables were defined to include only the insured portion of a receivable for 
which medical services had already been rendered.  The program agreements required that the 
special purpose subsidiaries purchase receivables at a price equal to 97% of the receivables’ 
estimated collectible value. 

       10.     The indentures also placed certain requirements on the programs that were designed 
to protect note holders from loss.  Failure to comply with certain key provisions of the indentures 
constituted an event of default.  If NCFE could not cure the defaults within a specified time period, 
the indentures required the program trustees to declare a principal amortization event.  Such an 
event would cause the program to cease purchasing receivables and would result in an immediate 
liquidation of the program.  For example, to ensure that the programs had sufficient collateral to 
cover the outstanding notes, the indentures required the programs to maintain at all times cash 
reserves and eligible receivables equal to at least 111% of the amount of notes outstanding 
(“collateral coverage test”). 3
                              If the collateral dropped below 111% for more than seven days, the 
notes were immediately callable and the indentures required the programs to be immediately 
liquidated. The indentures also required healthcare providers to immediately replace receivables 
older than 180 days (“defaulted receivables”) with new eligible receivables.  If they did not, the 
value of the defaulted receivables was to be deducted from the next funding to that provider, and 
the defaulted receivables could not be counted as eligible collateral for purposes of the collateral 
coverage test. 

3
 NCFE withheld 17% of the purchase price of eligible receivables as a safeguard against non-
collection, and held this money as collateral in the form of cash reserves for the program note 
holders. 
                                                4

---------------------Page 5---------------------

       11.    The indentures required an annual audit of NCFE’s consolidated financial 
statements.  NCFE’s audited financial statements were provided to the program trustees, the rating 
agencies that rated the notes, and were provided to investors upon request.  Deloitte served as 
auditor of NCFE’s consolidated financial statements for the years ended 1999 through 2001.  
Harbrecht was Deloitte’s engagement partner for the 1999 through 2001 year-end audits, and 
Spires was Deloitte’s engagement manager for the 1999 and 2000 audits.  Harbrecht signed 
unqualified audit reports on NCFE’s 1999 and 2000 financial statements.  He did not sign an audit 
report on the 2001 financial statements because Deloitte did not complete its audit for that year. 

                  NCFE’S Misuse of Note Proceeds and Misrepresentations 

       12.    From at least 1994 until 2002, NCFE diverted note holder funds to make unsecured 
loans or loans secured by collateral other than eligible healthcare receivables.  This practice 
contradicted the requirements of the trust indentures and NCFE’s representations to investors that 
NCFE was to use note holder funds exclusively for the purchase of eligible healthcare receivables.  
NCFE used note holder funds to provide funding to healthcare providers that had already sold all 
of their medical accounts receivables to NCFE and had no additional eligible receivables to sell.  
Many of these providers had incurred significant operating losses over a period of years and lacked 
the ability to repay NCFE.  NCFE made material non-permitted advances to providers that were 
owned in part by NCFE or NCFE’s principals. 

       13.    NCFE’s non-permitted advances had a much higher collection risk than purchased 
eligible accounts receivable. Because eligible receivables were to be paid by highly rated third-
party payers, such as insurance companies, HMOs, and governmental entities such as Medicare 
and Medicaid, for medical services that had already been rendered and billed to the payers, the 
eligible receivables were of the highest credit quality.  By contrast, it was much less likely that 
NCFE would be able to collect on non-permitted advances because they were in substance 
unsecured loans to severely financially distressed borrowers.  In fact, NCFE had very poor 
collection experience on its non-permitted advances, and in some cases NCFE went more than a 
year without receiving any payments from certain providers. 

       14.    The amount and significance (as a percentage of NCFE’s total receivable portfolio) 
of the non-permitted advances rapidly grew over time.  By 2000, non-permitted advances 
represented more than half of NCFE’s entire provider receivable portfolio. 

       15.    NCFE’s practice of making non-permitted advances caused the programs to be 
under collateralized, with eligible receivables plus cash reserves falling well short of the required 
111% of the value of the notes. A violation of this covenant required an immediate acceleration in 
the maturity of the notes and liquidation of the programs. 

       16.    NCFE concealed its non-permitted advances and the resulting indenture violations 
by making materially false and misleading statements in its 2000 Financials and to its note holders, 
the program trustees, rating agencies, and the auditors.4
                                                       The 2000 Financials departed from GAAP 
due to misstatements and omissions relating to NCFE’s non-permitted advances.  The 2000 

4
 There were similar misstatements and omissions in NCFE’s earlier financial statements as well. 
                                               5

---------------------Page 6---------------------

Financials materially misrepresented that NCFE’s receivable portfolio consisted of purchased 
medical accounts receivable, when in fact more than half of the portfolio consisted of non-
permitted advances.  Further, NCFE failed to evaluate the impairment present in its receivable 
portfolio attributable to the non-permitted advances to insolvent providers.  NCFE’s allowance for 
losses was grossly inadequate given its non-permitted lending activity.  Finally, NCFE failed to 
disclose that the programs were in default under the indentures and did not have the ability to cure 
those defaults. 

       17.    Note holders eventually uncovered NCFE’s fraud in October 2002.  The note 
holders called the notes, which drove NCFE into bankruptcy in November 2002.  By that point, 
however, most of NCFE’s approximately $3 billion of outstanding receivables were unsecured or 
backed by collateral that was virtually worthless. As a result of NCFE’s fraudulent scheme, note 
holders suffered more than $2 billion in losses.  Such losses do not reflect subsequent recoveries 
from civil litigation. 

                                Deloitte’s 2000 Audit of NCFE 

       18.    NCFE’s fraud went undetected and investor losses continued to grow from 2000 
through 2002. Harbrecht signed an unqualified audit report on NCFE’s 2000 Financials.  
Deloitte’s 2000 audit report erroneously stated that the financial statements were prepared in 
conformity with GAAP and that the audits had been conducted in accordance with GAAS.  
Respondents were both responsible for the planning and execution of the 2000 audit.  Respondents 
failed to perform certain audit procedures required by GAAS and failed to properly evaluate red 
flags that could have alerted them to NCFE’s non-permitted advances and to the impairment of 
NCFE’s receivable portfolio. 

                        Existence of Purchased Accounts Receivable 

       19.    According to Respondents, NCFE’s accounts receivable was one of the most 
significant areas of the 2000 audit.  NCFE had $2.3 billion of accounts receivable outstanding at 
the end of 2000, which represented 81% of the company’s $2.9 billion of total assets.  
Nevertheless, Respondents failed to obtain evidential matter sufficient to corroborate NCFE’s 
representation in its 2000 Financials that NCFE’s receivable portfolio represented purchased 
patient-specific healthcare receivables.  Respondents’ failure to obtain sufficient competent 
evidential matter supporting the purported purchase of accounts receivable resulted in their failure 
to discover that NCFE’s receivables included a significant amount of non-permitted advances for 
which no purchased patient-specific receivables existed. 

       20.    Respondents devised an internal control reliance strategy in testing NCFE’s 
receivable portfolio for the 2000 audit, placing some reliance on internal controls associated with 
the processing of funding advances and the remittance of payments made by third party payers.  
The testing of these controls had been performed during the 1999 audit and was updated 
subsequently.  However, the internal controls testing performed by the engagement team provided 
insufficient evidence as to the effectiveness of the controls in these areas.  The engagement team’s 
internal controls testing consisted of a “walk-through” of NCFE’s control environment, which 
included discussions with NCFE executive and mid-level management personnel, but did not 
                                               6

---------------------Page 7---------------------

include the identification of the specific controls that the engagement team intended to rely upon or 
the specific documents and functions that it would examine in establishing the effectiveness of 
those controls.  Through this walk-through, the engagement team learned about NCFE’s purported 
process of purchasing eligible receivables that supposedly ensured NCFE’s receivable portfolio 
consisted exclusively of purchased eligible receivables.  However, Respondents failed to obtain 
sufficient competent evidential matter to corroborate that NCFE had in fact adhered to its controls 
and that the controls operated effectively throughout the accounting period.  The engagement team 
instead relied heavily on management’s representations as to how the controls were purportedly 
operating and reviewed an insufficient sampling of documents that did not provide sufficient 
competent evidential matter of NCFE’s purchase of eligible receivables.   

       21.    Respondents also failed to design substantive audit procedures to corroborate the 
existence of purchased patient-specific accounts receivable.  NCFE had three accounting systems: 
the servicing department’s AS400 system that contained all the patient-specific receivable 
information (“AS400”); the funding department’s DMaster system that tracked the amount funded 
to providers (“DMaster”); and the general ledger.  NCFE represented that the funding department 
was supposed to limit funding to the amount of patient-specific receivables residing in the AS400.  
In practice, however, NCFE regularly advanced amounts to providers exceeding the amount of 
patient-specific receivables available for purchase.  Respondents decided that the engagement team 
should select accounts for confirmation using the amounts in the DMaster, based on their 
erroneous conclusion that the amounts recorded as funded in the DMaster would be equivalent to 
the amount of accounts receivable recorded in the AS400.  However, by using the DMaster 
amounts, the engagement team merely confirmed the amounts funded to providers, not the amount 
of purchased patient-specific receivables.  Moreover, the confirmations designed by the 
engagement team asked only that the provider confirm “the balance due” to the NCFE program 
rather than the amount of patient-specific receivables purchased by the program. 

       22.    Similarly, the engagement team tested only the accounts receivable reconciliations 
between the DMaster and the general ledger, despite being provided reconciliations for all three 
systems by NCFE.  NCFE prepared detailed account reconciliations for each healthcare provider 
with which it did business.  By testing the DMaster instead of the AS400, the engagement team 
merely determined that the amount funded to providers, rather than the amount of purchased 
receivables, reconciled to the general ledger.  This procedure did not provide sufficient competent 
evidential matter concerning the existence of eligible purchased accounts receivable. 

       23.    Respondents did not adequately investigate audit evidence contained in the 
accounts receivable reconciliation schedules that revealed NCFE’s non-permitted lending.  The 
reconciliation schedules showed significant shortfalls in the AS400 compared to the DMaster for 
some providers due to the non-permitted advances; these advances appeared in the DMaster but 
had no corresponding patient-specific receivable data in the AS400.  In fact, the single largest 
reconciling item NCFE used to reconcile the AS400 to the DMaster and general ledger was a line 
item entitled “Amount Over/(Under)Advanced to Seller,” which revealed the non-permitted 
advances to the providers. The reconciliation for one provider showed an amount over-advanced 
to that provider in excess of $200 million.  For another provider, the reconciliation showed a $42.1 
million general ledger receivable balance but no AS400 receivable detail, indicating that the entire 
general ledger amount constituted non-permitted advances. 
                                               7

---------------------Page 8---------------------

                        The Valuation of NCFE’s Accounts Receivable 

       24.    Respondents also failed to obtain evidential matter sufficient to support NCFE’s 
valuation of its receivable portfolio.  NCFE created an allowance for losses equal to 2% of its 
receivable portfolio, which was based on its historical charge-off rate for uncollectible accounts. 
NCFE’s allowance for losses was inadequate because of the impairment resulting from non-
permitted advances made to financially insolvent providers.  The reason NCFE’s historical charge-
off rate was so low was because NCFE did not charge off most of its impaired receivables. 

       25.    Respondents determined that collectibility was not a significant issue for NCFE’s 
receivable portfolio, based on their understanding of how the programs were supposed to operate 
and based on management’s representations regarding collections.  Respondents understood that 
there was a low risk of collection loss because the receivables were purportedly payable by 
financially sound third-party insurers and government programs such as Medicare.  They also 
understood that NCFE was required to return 180-day-old receivables to the selling providers, and 
that NCFE also held back a percentage of the purchase price of the receivables as a safeguard 
against unanticipated collection losses.  Thus, the engagement team accepted NCFE’s $43.7 
million allowance for losses for its $2.5 billion receivable portfolio.  This allowance was intended 
to cover the estimated losses in the $2.3 billion provider receivable portfolio and the losses 
associated with $49.7 million of promissory notes from providers that were identified by the 
engagement team as having a poor collection history.  NCFE deducted holdback reserves from 
provider fundings that could absorb some credit and collection losses; however, these cash reserves 
were available to cover only a limited percentage of each provider’s respective receivables 
balance.5 

       26.    Respondents did not obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to support its 
conclusion that management’s methods for estimating the allowance for credit and collection 
losses were reasonable. For example, Deloitte’s model audit program for the 2000 audit instructed 
the engagement team to evaluate the reasonableness of management’s methods for its estimates of 
the allowance for losses.  The model audit program advised reviewing, among other things, 
accounts receivable aging.  When the engagement team requested a consolidated receivable aging 
analysis from NCFE, management informed the team that the company could track aging by 
program only and was incapable of generating a consolidated aging schedule.  Respondents 
accepted this response and did not require NCFE to produce consolidated aging reports or other 
similar information that would have enabled the engagement team to evaluate the delinquency rate 
and collection losses in NCFE’s portfolio.  The engagement team did not perform an analysis of  

5
 NCFE’s programs withheld 17% of the amount funded to providers as cash reserves primarily 
to provide additional collateral for note holders, and secondarily to absorb credit or collection 
losses in the portfolio.  These reserves totaled $332 million at the end of 2000.  These reserves 
could be used on a provider-by-provider basis to absorb the first 17% of losses incurred for a 
particular provider.  However, the reserves for one provider could not be used to absorb losses in 
another provider’s portfolio.  Furthermore, in the event of early amortization of NCFE’s 
programs, the cash reserves were to serve as collateral to guard against note holder losses rather 
than to absorb losses in NCFE’s receivable portfolio.  
                                               8

---------------------Page 9---------------------

accounts receivable aging, nor did it review other information relating to delinquent accounts 
receivable for the 2000 audit.  The engagement team did not perform other alternative audit 
procedures to independently assess the reasonableness of the allowance for losses. 

       27.    Respondents relied excessively on management’s representations regarding the 
operation of the NCFE programs and collectibility of the receivables.  Respondents also failed to 
obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to establish that NCFE was requiring providers to 
replace 180-day-old receivables with new receivables or, alternatively, was deducting the value of 
the defaulted receivables from future fundings.  Respondents thus failed to implement procedures 
from which Deloitte could have discovered that NCFE had many receivables over 180 days old 
still on its books. 

       28.    Respondents did not properly evaluate audit evidence that revealed NCFE was 
experiencing significant delinquencies in the receivable portfolio.  For example, NCFE provided 
Deloitte with summarized statements for each provider that showed account activity during 2000.  
The engagement team attached these statements to the audit confirmation requests.  These 
statements revealed that NCFE had collected very little from many of its providers during 2000, 
and in some cases had not made any collections for the entire year.  Similarly, each client prepared 
accounts receivable reconciliation also contained a roll-forward analysis from the 2000 beginning 
balance to the ending balance.  These schedules also showed poor collections.6
                                                                              Despite being 
presented with this information about collections, Respondents did nothing further to reconcile this 
evidence with their conclusion that the programs were operating as they were designed. 

       29.    Deloitte’s audit work on the reconciliations between the general ledger accounts 
receivable balance and the DMaster balance also raised questions about the collectibility of 
NCFE’s receivables.  Respondents learned that NCFE had reclassified $110 million of accounts 
receivable to notes receivable. The reclassified receivables represented instances where NCFE had 
poor or no collection activity on receivables, and where NCFE set up a note with the provider to 
establish a collection schedule.  Respondents also became aware that NCFE did not recognize $21 
million of program fee revenues because cash collections on the underlying receivables were 
insufficient to cover the program fees earned on the advances made to those providers.  This 
should have indicated to them that NCFE’s receivables portfolio included approximately $200 
million of non-performing, delinquent receivables.  Respondents did not make additional audit 
inquiries into these matters or into collections on NCFE’s receivables, despite the contradictions 
between these facts and management’s representations about the operation of the programs and the 
collectibility of NCFE’s receivables.   

6
 Deloitte’s confirmation sample represented more than 80% of the value of NCFE’s receivable 
portfolio.  Thus, the age of receivables in this sample revealed that a significant portion of 
NCFE’s receivables were more than a year old, even though the programs contemplated the 
receivables turning over every 90 to 120 days. 
                                               9

---------------------Page 10---------------------

                    NCFE’s Compliance with Trust Indenture Covenants 

       30.    Respondents were aware that NCFE’s programs were in violation of certain 
provisions of the trust indentures.  Although NCFE misleadingly claimed that the indenture 
violations were not material, the engagement team identified these violations as an area that would 
require “heightened audit attention.” 

       31.    Respondents failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to determine 
whether NCFE was in compliance with the key provisions of the indentures that could lead to 
defaults and require liquidation of the programs.  Among other things, the engagement team relied 
on client-prepared investor reports provided to the program trustees on a monthly basis as evidence 
of NCFE’s compliance with certain indenture covenants.  Because these reports were prepared by 
NCFE, they routinely misrepresented that NCFE was in compliance with the most critical terms of 
the indentures, as NCFE was concealing its violations from the trustees.  The engagement team 
failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to corroborate the accuracy of the data on 
these reports. 

                             NCFE’s Related Party Transactions 

       32.    Respondents identified related party transactions as a risk area that would require 
attention during the audit. Approximately half of NCFE’s receivables portfolio constituted 
business with related parties, which was the most Harbrecht had ever encountered in an audit. 

       33.    The engagement team’s audit procedures for related party transactions were limited 
to receiving a schedule from NCFE that depicted related party receivable balances and program 
fees and agreeing such amounts to the associated disclosures in the footnotes to the 2000 
Financials.  Respondents relied on management’s representations that NCFE had made these 
related party advances pursuant to the terms and requirements of the programs.  Respondents did 
not scrutinize these transactions in order to understand the nature and business purpose of the 
transactions, notwithstanding the high concentration of business with related parties.  Respondents 
also failed to obtain information about the financial condition of non-consolidated related parties to 
determine whether NCFE was avoiding the recognition of losses associated with these business 
relationships.  Further analysis by the engagement team could have revealed that a significant 
portion of the business conducted with related parties represented non-permitted advances for 
which the providers did not have the financial capacity to repay.  It also could have revealed that, 
despite the lack of collections, NCFE was continuing to make unsecured advances to these related 
parties. 

       34.    Furthermore, NCFE’s three largest related party relationships constituted 46% of its 
entire $2.4 billion receivable portfolio at the end of 2000.  The engagement team failed to evaluate 
the risk associated with this concentration of receivables among only a few providers, despite those 
providers being related parties. 

                                               10

---------------------Page 11---------------------

                                   Departures from GAAS 

       35.    The third standard of field work requires that an auditor must obtain “sufficient 
competent evidential matter” to provide “a reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the financial 
statements under audit.”  (AU § 326, Evidential Matter, at AU 326.01)  GAAS further states that 
“representations from management are part of the evidential matter the independent auditor 
obtains, but they are not a substitute for the application of those auditing procedures necessary to 
afford a reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the financial statements under audit.”  (AU § 
333, Management Representations, at AU 333.02)  The third general standard requires that “[d]ue 
professional care is to be exercised in the planning and performance of the audit and the 
preparation of the [audit] report.”  (AU § 230, Due Professional Care in the Performance of Work, 
at AU 230.01) “Due professional care requires the auditor to exercise professional skepticism,” 
(AU 230.07), and “[i]n exercising professional skepticism, the auditor should not be satisfied with 
less than persuasive evidence because of a belief that management is honest.” (AU 230.09)  “The 
auditor obtains written representations from management to complement other auditing 
procedures.”  (AU 333.03) 

       36.    Respondents placed too much reliance on management’s representations regarding 
the operation of NCFE’s programs, which led to improper assumptions in several audit areas.  
Based primarily on management representations, Respondents improperly concluded that all of 
NCFE’s funding to providers represented eligible purchased patient-specific accounts receivable.  
This caused them to erroneously utilize the funding department’s system for confirmation and 
reconciliation procedures instead of the servicing department’s system, which contained the 
patient-specific accounts receivable detail.  Respondents failed to obtain sufficient competent 
evidential matter to corroborate that NCFE had actually purchased patient-specific receivables 
from providers.  Respondents also relied heavily on management’s representations regarding the 
operation of the programs in concluding that NCFE had a low risk of credit and collection losses.  
As a result, they decided to forgo performing certain audit procedures designed to corroborate the 
reasonableness of management’s assumptions underlying its estimates of the allowance for losses.  
Respondents failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter and failed to exercise due 
professional care and professional skepticism when auditing the existence and valuation of 
NCFE’s receivable portfolio. 

       37.    Furthermore, Respondents failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to 
verify NCFE’s compliance with key provisions of the trust indentures.  They instead relied on 
client-prepared monthly investor reports without adequately corroborating the veracity of the data 
in those reports.  Thus, Respondents failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to 
conclude that NCFE was in compliance with the most significant provisions of the trust indentures. 

       38.    GAAS states that the purpose of assessing control risk during an audit “is to 
contribute to the auditor’s evaluation of the risk that material misstatements exist in the financial 
statements.”  (AU § 319, Consideration of Internal Control in a Financial Statement Audit7
                                                                                        , at AU 

7
 AU 319 was modified by Statement on Auditing Standards No. 94, The Effect of Information 
Technology on the Auditor’s Consideration of Internal Control in a Financial Statement Audit, 
which was integrated into AU 319 in May 2001 and applied to audits of financial statements for 
                                               11

---------------------Page 12---------------------

319.79 (pre-amendment), AU 319.105 (post-amendment))  When the auditor intends to place 
reliance on internal controls, the auditor must identify specific controls that are relevant to specific 
assertions in the financial statements and perform tests of those controls.  (AU 319.48 (pre-
amendment), AU 319.70 (post-amendment)) 

       39.     Respondents failed to design audit tests of internal control procedures sufficient to 
justify the amount of reliance the engagement team placed on NCFE’s internal controls in 
connection with auditing NCFE’s accounts receivable.  With regard to NCFE’s receivable 
portfolio, Respondents failed to identify specific controls that Deloitte would rely upon with 
respect to specific assertions in NCFE’s financial statements and failed to obtain sufficient 
competent evidential matter to establish the operating effectiveness of those controls. 

       40.     GAAS states that, when testing the effectiveness of internal controls through 
observation, the auditor should consider “that the observed application of a control might not be 
performed in the same manner when the auditor is not present.”  (AU 319.68 (pre-amendment), 
AU 319.94 (post-amendment))  Observation therefore “may be insufficient to evaluate the 
effectiveness of the design or operation of controls for periods not subjected to [observation].  In 
such circumstances, the auditor may decide to supplement [observation] with other tests of controls 
that are capable of providing evidential matter about the entire audit period.”  (AU 319.70 (pre-
amendment), AU 319.96 (post-amendment)) 

       41.     Respondents failed to design adequate internal control testing procedures to ensure 
that NCFE’s internal controls operated effectively throughout the audit period.  By making 
corroborative inquiries as to the operation of controls and by observing NCFE’s various control 
functions, the engagement team obtained an understanding of the design of NCFE’s controls.  
However, Respondents failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter that the controls 
were operating effectively at all times during the audit period, such as tests of those controls at 
different times throughout the audit period.   

       42.     GAAS states that “for evidence to be competent, it must be reliable and relevant.  
The relevance of evidence depends on its relationship to the financial statement assertion being 
addressed.”  (AU § 330, The Confirmation Process, at AU 330.11)  When designing confirmation 
requests, “the auditor should consider the assertion(s) being addressed and the factors that are 
likely to affect the reliability of the confirmations.”  (AU 330.16) An auditor should consider 
factors such as a confirmation respondent’s motivation, objectivity, and freedom from bias when 
designing confirmation requests, and should consider whether other procedures are necessary as a 
result. (AU 330.27)  Furthermore, “there may be circumstances . . . in which the auditor should 
exercise a heightened degree of professional skepticism relative to these factors”, such as “where 
the confirmation respondent is the custodian of a material amount of the audited entity’s assets.” 
(Id.) 

periods beginning on or after June 1, 2001.  These amendments did not apply to the 2000 NCFE 
audit.  Therefore, all citations to AU 319 will include the pre-amendment citation in effect at the 
time of the audit, as well as the post-amendment citation to the current AU 319. 
                                               12 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

       43.    Respondents failed to design confirmation requests tailored to the audit objective of 
confirming management’s financial statement assertion that its receivables constituted eligible 
purchased patient-specific receivables.  The confirmations requested that the provider confirm the 
“balance due” NCFE instead of the amount of patient-specific receivables NCFE had purchased 
from the provider.  Thus, Deloitte confirmed only the amount funded by NCFE to a particular 
provider, not the amount of purchased receivables.  Based on management’s representations and 
reliance on internal control testing, Respondents decided their confirmation approach was 
acceptable because they incorrectly concluded that the amount funded by NCFE in all cases 
equaled the amount of eligible patient specific receivables NCFE had purchased.  Furthermore, 
Respondents failed to exercise the necessary level of professional skepticism by placing too much 
reliance on confirmation responses from customers in which NCFE had an ownership interest or 
which were financially dependent on NCFE, and which also were custodians of a significant 
portion of NCFE’s assets.  Respondents did not sufficiently evaluate whether these confirmation 
responses would provide competent evidence given that NCFE was the primary funding source for 
many of its providers.  The engagement team did not obtain sufficient competent evidential matter 
about the providers’ operating histories or their financial condition in order to assess whether those 
providers were subject to improper influence by NCFE. 

       44.    GAAS states that “[i]f a representation made by management is contradicted by 
other audit evidence, the auditor should investigate the circumstances and consider the reliability of 
the representation made.  Based on the circumstances, the auditor should consider whether his or 
her reliance on management’s representations relating to other aspects of the financial statements is 
appropriate and justified.”  (AU 333.04) 

       45.    Respondents gathered audit evidence during the 2000 audit that should have caused 
them to question management’s representations about the operations of the programs and to 
reevaluate their conclusions as to the existence of purchased accounts receivable and as to the 
credit and collection risk for NCFE’s receivables.  Most notably, they became aware that NCFE 
had required providers to provide notes receivable to secure $110 million of delinquent accounts 
receivable. Respondents also became aware that NCFE did not recognize $21 million of program 
fee revenues because cash collections on the underlying receivables were insufficient to cover the 
program fees earned on the advances made to those providers.  This should have indicated to them 
that NCFE’s receivables portfolio included approximately $200 million of non-performing, 
delinquent receivables.  Respondents failed to exercise professional skepticism when faced with 
these facts. At a minimum, they should have questioned why, despite these collection issues, 
NCFE did not create a specific allowance for or write off these receivables.   

       46.    GAAS states that an auditor should “be aware of the possibility that transactions 
with related parties may have been motivated solely, or in large measure, by conditions” such as, 
among other things, the “[l]ack of sufficient working capital or credit to continue the business.”  
(AU § 334, Related Parties, at AU 334.06)  “The auditor should place emphasis on testing material 
transactions with [related parties].”  (AU 334.07)  “The auditor should apply the procedures he 
considers necessary to obtain satisfaction concerning the purpose, nature, and extent of [related 
party] transactions and their effect on the financial statements.”  (AU 334.09) “The procedures 
should be directed toward obtaining and evaluating sufficient competent evidential matter and 
should extend beyond inquiry of management.”  (Id.)  Such procedures may include inspecting or 
                                               13

---------------------Page 14---------------------

confirming the value of collateral in the transaction.  (Id.)  When necessary to fully understand a 
particular transaction, if there are material uncollected balances, an auditor should consider 
obtaining information about the financial capability of the other party to the transaction.  (AU 
334.10) “The higher the auditor’s assessment of risk regarding related party transactions, the more 
extensive or effective the audit tests should be.”  (AU § 9334, Related Parties – Auditing 
Interpretations of Section 334, at AU 9334.19)  To understand a related party transaction, or obtain 
evidence regarding it, “the auditor may have to refer to . . . financial statements of the related 
party.” (Id.) 

       47.    Respondents did not perform audit procedures necessary to understand and test the 
terms of NCFE’s related party transactions.  This was especially significant because approximately 
half of NCFE’s business was with related parties.  The risk associated with NCFE’s related party 
transactions was further exacerbated because 46% of NCFE’s receivable portfolio was 
concentrated in three related parties. A careful review of NCFE’s relationships with these three 
related parties would have revealed that these customers were severely financially distressed and 
were receiving unsecured loans from NCFE to fund their operating losses.  Despite this material 
concentration risk, Respondents failed to properly scrutinize NCFE’s related party transactions.   

E.     RULE 102(e) 

       48.    Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice states, in pertinent part, 
that, “[t]he Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before it in any way to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or 
improper professional conduct.”  With respect to persons licensed to practice as accountants, such 
as Respondents, “improper professional conduct” under Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) includes, among other 
things, the following type of negligent conduct: “repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each 
resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to 
practice before the Commission”.  (Rule 102(e)(1)(ii)(B)(2)) 

       49.    As described above, Respondents engaged in improper professional conduct in 
connection with the 2000 audit.  Respondents negligently failed to conduct the 2000 audit of 
NCFE in conformity with the requirements of GAAS.  Harbrecht and Spires engaged in repeated 
instances of unreasonable conduct, which resulted in violations of GAAS, and which indicate a 
lack of competence to practice before the Commission. 

F. FINDI      NGS 

       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondents engaged in improper 
professional conduct pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 

                                               14

---------------------Page 15---------------------

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     Harbrecht is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission 
as an accountant. 

       B.     After eighteen months from the date of this order, Harbrecht may request that 
the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of 
the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Harbrecht’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 

              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 

                      (a)    Harbrecht, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)    Harbrecht, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in Harbrecht’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that 
Harbrecht will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)    Harbrecht has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      (d)    Harbrecht acknowledges his responsibility, as long as he appears 
or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   

       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Harbrecht to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
                                               15

---------------------Page 16---------------------

consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Harbrecht’s 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 

       D.      Spires is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant. 

       E.     After one year from the date of this order, Spires may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Spires’ work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 

               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 

                      (a)     Spires, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, 
is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance 
with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)     Spires, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of 
or potential defects in Spires’ or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that Spires 
will not receive appropriate supervision;

                (c)           Spires has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has 
complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      (d)     Spires acknowledges his responsibility, as long as he appears or 
practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all requirements 
of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to 
registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   

       F.      The Commission will consider an application by Spires to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will  

                                               16

---------------------Page 17---------------------

consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Spires’ character, 
integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

 By        the Commission. 

       N                                              ancy M. Morris
       S                                              ecretary 

                                                17

