---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                              STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                       the 

                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  57211 / January 28, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2776 / January 28, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12939 

                                                     ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                     ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
                                                     PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
In the Matter of                                     COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                     PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, 
      THOMAS H. BAUER, CPA,                          AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL 
                                                     SANCTIONS 
Respondent. 

                                           I.


      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Thomas H. Bauer, CPA (“Bauer” 
or “Respondent”), pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.1 

                                           II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Bauer has submitted an Offer of 
Settlement (“Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of 
these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are 
admitted, Bauer consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings 

1 
      Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides that: 

      The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before 
it in any way to any person who is found by the Commission . . . to have engaged in . . . improper professional 
conduct. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing 
Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   

                                               III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds 2
                                                                                 that: 

A.     SUMMARY 

       Enron Corp.’s (“Enron”) senior executives engaged in a wide-ranging scheme to defraud 
the investing public by materially overstating the company’s earnings and cash flows, and 
concealing debt in periodic reports filed with the Commission.3
                                                                The fraudulent scheme was carried 
out through a variety of complex structured transactions, related party transactions, misleading 
disclosures, and a widespread abuse of generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).  

       Arthur Andersen LLP (“Andersen”) served as Enron’s auditor, and for each year during the 
relevant time period, issued an auditor’s report falsely stating that Enron’s financial statements 
were presented fairly, in all material respects, in conformity with GAAP, and that Andersen had 
conducted its audit of those financial statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards (“GAAS”).  Bauer served as one of the partners on the Enron engagement team and was 
responsible for the auditing of Enron’s largest division.  As specified in this Order, Bauer engaged 
in improper professional conduct by failing to design and implement auditing procedures adequate 
to address the known risk of fraud inherent in the Enron engagement in violation of GAAS. 

B.     RESPONDENT 

       Thomas H. Bauer, 54, served as one of the partners on the Enron engagement and was a 
CPA licensed in the state of Texas at all relevant times. 

C.     OTHER PARTIES 

       Enron Corp. was an Oregon corporation with its principal place of business in Houston, 
Texas.  During the relevant time period, Enron’s common stock was registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and traded on the New York Stock 
Exchange.  Among other operations, Enron was the nation’s largest natural gas and electric 
marketer, with reported annual revenue of more than $100 billion.  In 2000, Enron rose to number 
seven on the Fortune 500 list of public companies.  By December 2, 2001, when it filed for 
bankruptcy, Enron’s stock price had dropped over the course of a year from more than $80 per 
share to less than $1. 

2 
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
3 
       In connection with this fraudulent scheme, several former Enron executives either pleaded guilty or were 
convicted of felonies, including Enron’s former Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief 
Accounting Officer. 
                                                2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

       Arthur Andersen LLP once was one of the so-called “Big Five” accounting firms in the 
United States and had its headquarters in Chicago, Illinois.  Andersen personnel performed work 
for Enron during the relevant time period in several cities, including Chicago, Houston and 
London. 4 

D.     FACTS 

       1.      Andersen Identified Enron as a Maximum Risk Client 

       Bauer was aware that the risk of fraudulent financial reporting at Enron was high.  In 
accordance with applicable professional standards, Andersen assessed the risk of fraud at Enron 
(AU §316, Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit), and Bauer should have known 
that Enron possessed many of the risk factors that should be considered in making that assessment.  
For example, Fraud Risk Assessment questionnaires prepared by the audit engagement team 
documented that Enron placed an “undue emphasis on meeting earnings targets;” used “highly 
aggressive accounting;” utilized “unusual” year-end transactions that posed difficult “substance 
over form” questions; possessed a “philosophy of significantly managing (maximizing or 
minimizing) earnings;” and had a “high dependence on debt, difficulty in meeting debt payments 
or vulnerability to interest rate changes.”  In addition, an internal Andersen document prepared 
each year by the engagement team consistently classified the Enron engagement as involving 
“maximum risk” and noted that Enron’s use of complex “form over substance” and  
“related party” transactions created an “extreme” or “very significant” financial reporting risk.  
This document, called a “SMART,” was prepared each year to assist with the annual decision 
whether to retain Enron as an audit client.  Bauer reviewed the SMART documents and also 
attended annual client retention meetings during which the risks identified above were discussed. 

       2.      JEDI/Chewco Transaction 

       In May 1993, Enron teamed with the California Public Employees’ Retirement System 
(“CalPERS”) to form the Joint Energy Development Investments Limited Partnership (“JEDI”) to 
invest in natural gas assets.  CalPERS contributed $250 million and Enron funded its share of the 
joint venture with $250 million of its own stock.  Enron did not consolidate JEDI into its financial 
statements.  Rather, it accounted for JEDI using the equity method and recorded its share of gains 
and losses from JEDI in its financial statements.   

       In 1997, Enron proposed to CalPERS that a new, larger partnership be formed – JEDI II.  
CalPERS representatives were hesitant to enter into JEDI II because they felt that CalPERS’ board 
of directors would not approve the increased exposure to Enron.  Thus, Enron offered to buy out 
4 
       David B. Duncan served as the global engagement partner for Andersen’s audits of Enron from 1997 until 
December 2001.  Contemporaneously with the filing of this Order, the Commission filed a settled civil injunctive 
action in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas, Houston Division, against Duncan, in which 
Duncan consented to be permanently enjoined from violating Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.  Upon entry of the injunction by the Court, Duncan has also offered to settle an 
administrative proceeding by the Commission in which he agrees to be permanently barred from appearing or 
practicing before the Commission as an accountant. 
                                                3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

CalPERS’ interest in JEDI.  CalPERS agreed and a $383 million purchase price was negotiated.  
Because Enron did not want to bring JEDI’s debt onto its balance sheet, Enron formed a special 
purpose entity (“SPE”) named Chewco Investments L.P. (“Chewco”) to step into the shoes of 
CalPERS.  An Enron employee, Michael Kopper (“Kopper”), managed Chewco’s business affairs 
and also invested personally in Chewco.   

       To properly treat Chewco as an off-balance sheet SPE, GAAP required the partnership to 
have independent outside investors who had at least a three percent equity investment in Chewco.  
These investors also needed to control the SPE and have the substantive risks and rewards of 
ownership associated with the SPE.  The transaction, however, did not satisfy these requirements.  
Because Barclays Bank (“Barclays”), which contributed $11.4 million of purported equity, was not 
comfortable providing the funds backed solely by the assets held by JEDI, it wanted additional 
credit support.  To satisfy Barclays, reserve accounts controlled by Barclays were set up and funded 
in the amount of $6.5 million upon the closing of the transaction.  The funding of the reserve 
accounts was accomplished by a special distribution from JEDI to Chewco that was agreed to in an 
undisclosed side letter signed by Kopper on behalf of Chewco, and an Enron employee on behalf of 
JEDI.  The funding of the reserve accounts meant that the requisite three percent equity was not 
actually at risk.  Thus, the structure did not comply with applicable accounting rules.          

 Ander       sen spent considerable time working with Enron on the Chewco transaction.  Bauer 
advised Enron about the three percent equity capital requirement and also on governance issues.  
Bauer also performed audit procedures to determine whether Chewco and JEDI were required to be 
consolidated into Enron’s financial statements.     

       However, despite numerous red flags associated with this transaction, Bauer failed to 
exercise due professional care, did not exhibit professional skepticism, and failed to obtain sufficient 
competent evidential matter to support his analysis of either the control issue or the three percent 
independent equity requirement (AU §230, Due Professional Care in the Performance of Work and 
AU §326, Evidential Matter).  Instead, Bauer placed an undue reliance on oral representations from 
Enron’s management (AU §333, Management Representations).  Bauer asked for, but was denied 
access to, documents related to the funding of Chewco.  Bauer should have insisted on seeing the 
relevant documents rather than relying solely on management representations.  Bauer also violated 
professional standards by failing to sufficiently document in the audit workpapers his planning and 
supervision of audit procedures and the nature and extent of the audit evidence obtained in reaching 
his conclusions (AU §339, Working Papers). 

       3.     Violations 

       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides, in part, that the 
Commission may censure or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before the Commission in any way to any person who is found by the Commission to 
have engaged in improper professional conduct.  Rule 102(e)(1)(iv) defines improper professional 
conduct with respect to persons licensed to practice as accountants. 

                                               4

---------------------Page 5---------------------

       As applicable here, improper professional conduct means a violation of applicable 
standards that resulted from “repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a 
violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice before 
the Commission.”  (Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2)).  As a result of the conduct described above, Bauer 
repeatedly acted unreasonably in failing to conduct or supervise the audit of Enron’s JEDI/Chewco 
transaction in accordance with GAAS.   

       4.      Findings 

       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Bauer engaged in improper professional 
conduct pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 

                                               IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.5 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.      Bauer is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant. 

       B.      After three years from the date of this order, Bauer may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 

               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 

                      (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 

5 
       In determining to accept Bauer’s Offer, the Commission considered Bauer’s cooperation with the 
Department of Justice and his testimony at the criminal trial of Enron’s former top two executives.   
                                                5

---------------------Page 6---------------------

of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision;

               (c)           Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      (d)    Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 

       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

 By       the Commission. 

       N                                              ancy M. Morris
       S                                             ecretary 

                                                6

