---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                     the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  55432 / March 9, 2007 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2574 / March 9, 2007 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12587 

                                       : 
                                       : 
                                       : 
      In the Matter of                 :      ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                       :      PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
             STEVEN J.                 :      102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
             LANDMANN                  :      PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                       :      IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
             Respondent.               : 
                                       : 
____________________________________ : 

                                          I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Steven 
J. Landmann (“Respondent” or “Landmann”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1 

1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 

      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III ¶ 3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 

              1.      Landmann, age 47, is and has been a holder of a certificate of public 
accountancy in the State of Missouri.  He served as Controller of Engineered Support Systems, Inc. 
(“ESSI”) from 1998 until January 2006. 

              2.      ESSI was, at all relevant times, a Missouri corporation with its principal 
place of business in St. Louis, Missouri.  ESSI was engaged in the business of manufacturing 
electronics and equipment, and providing systems integration services for the United States and 
foreign militaries.  At all relevant times, ESSI’s common stock was registered with the Commission 
pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and was traded 
on the NASDAQ NMS. 

              3.      On February 6, 2007, the Commission filed a complaint against Landmann 
in SEC v. Landmann (Civil Action No. 4:07-cv-00271-CAS).  On February 12, 2007, the court 
entered an order, by consent, permanently enjoining Landmann from future violations of Section 
17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, Sections 10(b), 13(b)(5), and 14(a) of the Exchange Act and 
Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1, 13b2-2, and 14a-9 thereunder, and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 
13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 
thereunder.  Landmann was also ordered to pay $518,972.50 in disgorgement of ill-gotten gains 
from his sales of stock while participating in the fraud, and $108,099 in prejudgment interest; and a 
$259,486 civil money penalty. 

              4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Landmann, 
at the direction of others, engaged in a fraudulent scheme which resulted in ESSI filing materially 
false and misleading statements and/or materially misstated financial statements in the company’s 
annual reports on For m 10-K for t he fi scal ye ars ended October 31, 1997 through 2002, in 
quarterly re ports on For m 10- Q fil ed duri ng  fiscal years 1997 through  2002, and in proxy 
statements filed from 1997 through 2003.  The Complaint alleged that Landmann, at the direction 
of others, backdated ESSI stock options to coincide with low points in the closing market price for 
ESSI common stock, resulting in approximately $20 million of ill-gotten benefits to ESSI insiders 

                                               2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

through grants of disguised “in-the- money” options.   The Complaint als o alleged that, in two 
instances when ESSI’s stock price fell after options were awarded, Landmann, at the direction of 
others, cancelled those options and reissued them with a new backdated grant date and price.  The 
Complaint further alleged that Landmann, at the direction of others, issued stock options to non-
employee directors beyond what the directors were authorized to receive under ESSI’s stock option 
plans.  None of these practices were disclosed in Commission filings.  The Complaint alleged that 
these undisclosed practices caused ESSI to ma ke f alse and m isleading statements relating to 
ESSI’s stock options in filings with the Commission, including the false statement that the options 
were granted with an exercise price equal to the closing price of ESSI’s common stock on the date 
the options were awarded.  The Complaint alleges that Landmann prepared portions of financial 
statements filed with t he Commission that mat erially understated ESSI’s compensation expense 
and materially overstated its income in its financial statements filed with the Commission. 

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Landmann’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       Landmann is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 

 By       the Commission. 

       N                                             ancy M. Morris
       S                                             ecretary 

                                               3

