---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                       UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                                       Before the 
                            SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934     
Release No. 55199 / January 30, 2007      
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2549 / January 30, 2007 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12552 
                                                           
      : 
      : 
      : 
              In the Matter of                                      :             ORDER INSTITUTING 
      : ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
              WILLIAM F. SORIN, ESQ.,              :             PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
      : COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
 Respondent.    : PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
      : IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
      : 
____________________________________ :              
 
 
                                                             I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against William 
F. Sorin, Esq. (“Respondent” or “Sorin”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules 
of Practice.  1
                  
                                                               
                                                             II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 

                                                 
1
  Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . attorney . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.4 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
              1.           Sorin, 58, a resident of New York, New York, is an attorney who served as General 
Counsel and then Senior General Counsel of Comverse Technology, Inc. (“CTI”) from October 
1984 until his resignation on May 1, 2006.  He also was Corporate Secretary and a Director of CTI 
during this time.  Additionally, Sorin was a Director of Ulticom, Inc. (“Ulticom”) and served on 
Ulticom’s Compensation Committee from 2000 to June 2004.  Sorin reviewed and signed each of 
CTI’s annual reports on Form 10-K since at least 1991 and he reviewed each of CTI’s quarterly 
reports on Form 10-Q during that time period.  He drafted and reviewed all CTI’s proxy statements 
and stock option plans during the relevant period. 
 
       2.           CTI was, at all relevant times, a New York corporation, the subsidiaries of which 
provided software, systems and related services for multimedia communication and information 
processing applications.  CTI was headquartered in Woodbury, New York, throughout most of the 
relevant period and currently maintains office space and/or operations facilities in Manhattan and 
Long Island, New York; its subsidiaries had operating facilities in Wakefield, Massachusetts; Tel 
Aviv, Israel and various other locations within the United States, Europe, Asia, South America, 
Africa and Canada.  Prior to July 31, 2006, CTI’s common stock was registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) 
and traded on the NASDAQ National Market System under the symbol “CMVT.”  It is now 
registered under Section 12(b) and continues to trade on the NASDAQ National Market System.  
CTI’s fiscal year ends on January 31.  Prior to 1998, CTI’s fiscal year ended on December 31. 
        
              3.           Ulticom is a New Jersey corporation based in Mount Laurel, New Jersey, that 
provides service enabling signaling software for fixed, mobile and Internet communications.  Prior 
to July 31, 2006, Ulticom’s common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant 
to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and traded on the NASDAQ National Market System under 
the symbol “ULCM.”  It is now registered under Section 12(b) and continues to trade on the 
NASDAQ National Market System.   Prior to going public in 2000, Ulticom was a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of CTI.  Ulticom is currently a majority-owned subsidiary of CTI.  Ulticom’s fiscal year 
ends on January 31. 
 
              4.           On January 29, 2007, a final judgment was entered against Sorin, permanently 
enjoining him from violating Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), 
Sections 10(b), 13(b)(5), 14(a), and 16(a) of the Exchange Act, and Exchange Act Rules 10b-5, 
13b2-1, 13b2-2, 14a-9, and 16a-3, and for aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 

                                                2
---------------------Page 3---------------------

13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 
13a-13, in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Jacob “Kobi” 
Alexander et. al, Civil Action Number 1:06-CV-03844-NGG-RER, in the United States District 
Court for the Eastern District of New York.  Sorin was also prohibited from acting as an officer or 
director of any issuer that has a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the 
Exchange Act or that is required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, and 
was ordered to pay $2,488,424.10 in disgorgement, which includes prejudgment interest, and a 
$600,000 civil penalty. 
 
       5.           The Commission’s Complaint alleges, among other things, that beginning no later 
than 1991, and continuing through 2001, Sorin engaged in a fraudulent scheme with CTI’s former 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and from at least 1998 with CTI’s former Chief Financial 
Officer, to grant undisclosed, in-the-money options to themselves and others, by backdating stock 
option grants to coincide with historically low annual and quarterly closing prices for CTI’s stock.  
Sorin then created company records that falsely indicated that CTI’s Remuneration and Stock 
Option Committee (the “Compensation Committee”) had actually acted on that date to make the 
options grant, when, in reality, no corporate action took place on the selected backdated date.  
According to the Complaint, Sorin’s fraudulent misconduct caused CTI, between fiscal year 1991 
and fiscal year 2005, (i) to file materially false and misleading financial statements that materially 
understated its compensation expenses and materially overstated its quarterly and annual net 
income and earnings per share, and (ii) to make disclosures in its periodic filings and proxy 
statements that falsely portrayed CTI’s options as having been granted at exercise prices equal to 
the fair market value of CTI’s common stock on the date of the grant.  According to the 
Complaint, Sorin also misled CTI’s outside auditors in an attempt to hide the scheme.  The 
Complaint alleges that Sorin, and others, failed to file all required Commission Forms 3 and 4 to 
disclose his option-related activity and also filed Forms 3 and 4 that contained false or misleading 
statements with regard to the options’ expirations dates (based on backdated grant dates) and the 
exercise prices.  Beginning in 2000, the Complaint alleges that Sorin participated in a similar 
backdating scheme at Ulticom, a publicly-traded company whose stock was majority-owned by 
CTI, which resulted in Ulticom making materially false and misleading financial statements, and 
materially false and misleading disclosures regarding option grants, in its filings with the 
Commission. 

                                                3
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                                                                        IV. 
                                                                                             
              In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Sorin’s Offer. 
 
              Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
              Sorin is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an attorney. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

                                                                                           4
