---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                              

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
                                                                                              

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 56066 / July 13, 2007 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 2634 / July 13, 2007 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-9331 

                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
B.J. Thomas 
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                          
        

       On June 10, 1997, B.J. Thomas (“Thomas”) was suspended from appearing or practicing 
as an accountant before the Commission as a result of public administrative proceedings 
instituted by the Commission against Thomas pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3) of the Commission's 
Rules of Practice.1
                   The suspension stemmed from Thomas’s consent to the entry of a final 
judgment against him on March 11, 1997 in an action brought by the Commission in federal 
district court.  The final judgment permanently enjoined him from violating Section 17(a) of the 
Securities Act of 1933 and Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 
thereunder. 

                  The Commission’s complaint in federal district court alleged that Thomas served as the 
chief financial officer of Technology International, Ltd. (“TIL”) from at least March 1993 until 
February 1994.  TIL’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1993 materially misstated its 
financial condition.  TIL reported ownership of approximately $2.1 million of rental properties 
when, in fact, as of the end of the quarter, TIL had not consummated the purchase of those 
properties and could not, consistent with GAAP, report them as assets.  TIL also improperly 
capitalized $828,744 of “Pre Operating and Deferred Costs,” including consulting fees, officers’ 
salaries, the cost of running the Shareholders Relations Department and interest costs.  Finally, 
TIL failed, contrary to the requirements of Regulation S-X, to disclose that it had made a prior 
period adjustment to capitalize costs that had previously been expensed.  Thomas prepared TIL’s 

                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 922, dated June 10, 1997.  Thomas was temporarily 
suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission.  This suspension became permanent, pursuant to 
Rule 102(e)(3)(ii) after 30 days from the date of the release.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                     

June 30, 1993 financial statements and was responsible for all of TIL’s accounting policies and 
practices during that time period. 
 
       This order is issued in response to Thomas’s application for reinstatement to practice 
before the Commission as an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial 
statements required to be filed with the Commission. 
 
              In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review of financial statements required to be filed with the Commission, Thomas attests that he 
will have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of any company for which he 
works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while practicing before the 
Commission in this capacity.  Thomas is not, at this time, seeking to appear or practice before the 
Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume appearing and 
practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be required to submit an 
application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will comply with the terms of 
the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Thomas’s suspension from practice 
before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in effect until the Commission 
determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in accordance with the terms of 
the original suspension order. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Thomas, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the June 10, 1997 order suspending 
him from practice before the Commission as an accountant, that no information has come to the 
attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, professional conduct or 
qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis for adverse action against 
him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, and that Thomas, by 
undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of any company for 
which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in his practice before 
the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be filed with the 
Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 
        
        
        
        

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                                

        
        
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that B.J. 
Thomas is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant 
responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed with the 
Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                             
                                             
                                            Nancy M. Morris  
                                            Secretary  
