---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                      the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  57970 / June 16, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2838 / June 16, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13070 

                                            ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
In the Matter of                            DESIST PROCEEDINGS, MAKING 
                                            FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE-
      CITIGROUP INC.,                       AND-DESIST ORDER PURSUANT TO 
                                            SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
Respondent.                                 EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

                                          I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Citigroup Inc. (“Citigroup,” “company,” or 
“Respondent”).   

                                          II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement of Citigroup Inc. (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  
Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of 
the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over Citigroup and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, which Respondent admits, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order 
Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist 
Order Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth 
below. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  

A.     SUMMARY 

       This action concerns Citigroup’s improper accounting relating to the impact of the 
economic and political crisis in Argentina on the company’s operations during the fourth quarter of 
2001.  In the latter part of 2001 and continuing into 2002, Argentina experienced a severe 
economic and political crisis during which, among other things, the Argentine government 
defaulted on certain of its sovereign debt obligations, devalued its currency, and abandoned the 
one-to-one ratio between the Argentine peso and the United States dollar. 

       The actions of the Argentine government during the crisis required Citigroup to make a 
number of significant accounting decisions for the fourth quarter of 2001.  Most relevant for 
purposes of these proceedings, Citigroup was required to account for (1) the impact of the 
company’s participation in a government-sponsored exchange of Argentine government bonds for 
loans (the “Bond Swap”); (2) the value of Argentine government bonds held by Citigroup that 
were not eligible for the Bond Swap (the “Non-Swapped Bonds”); (3) the sale of Banco Bansud 
S.A. (“Bansud”), the Argentine subsidiary of Banco Nacional de Mexico, S.A. (“Banamex”), 
which Citigroup had acquired in August 2001; and (4) the impact of government actions that 
resulted in the conversion of over $1 billion of Citigroup loans from dollars to Argentine pesos.  
Citigroup accounted for each of these items in a manner that did not conform with generally 
accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and thereby overstated its income reported in the 
company’s earnings press release included in a Form 8-K filed with the Commission on January 
18, 2002, and in the company’s annual report on Form 10-K for 2001 filed with the Commission 
on March 12, 2002. For the fourth quarter of 2001, Citigroup recorded $470 million of pre-tax 
charges related to Argentina and earnings per share of $.74.  If Citigroup had accounted for the 
four Argentina-related items described above in conformity with GAAP, the company would have 
recorded additional charges of at least $479 million pre-tax, or at least $311 million after-tax, and 
would have reduced fourth quarter 2001 earnings by more than 8%.  In accounting for the four 
items improperly and thereby reporting incorrect results both in the Form 8-K and the Form 10-K, 
Citigroup violated reporting, record-keeping, and internal accounting controls provisions of the 
Exchange Act.   

B.     RESPONDENT 

       Respondent Citigroup Inc. is a Delaware corporation with its principal place of business in 
New York, New York.  Citigroup is a global financial services company whose businesses provide 
a broad range of financial services to consumer and corporate clients.  During the relevant time, 
Citigroup was the largest foreign bank in Argentina, with a market share of approximately 9% and 
assets totaling more than $8 billion.  Citigroup’s securities are registered with the Commission 
under Sections 12(b) and 12(g) of the Exchange Act, and its common stock is traded on the New 
York Stock Exchange. 

                                               2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

C.     FACTS 


                                   The Crisis in Argentina 

       During the latter part of 2001 and continuing into 2002, Argentina suffered a severe 
economic and political crisis. As the economy weakened, thousands of Argentineans withdrew 
money from their bank accounts, with a significant spike in deposit withdrawals occurring in late 
November 2001.  To avoid a continuing “run on the banks,” the Argentine government issued a 
policy known as the “corralito” on December 3, 2001, which severely limited the amount of 
money that an individual could withdraw each month.  In response to the corralito and general 
economic woes, widespread rioting occurred throughout Argentina.  The crisis worsened in 
December and into January as the Argentine government began to default on its sovereign debt 
obligations; issued various decrees that ended the one-to one ratio between the dollar and the 
Argentine peso, allowing the peso to devalue; and pesified certain dollar-denominated loans.  
International credit rating agencies significantly downgraded Argentine sovereign debt, and the 
majority of Argentine government bonds began trading at substantial discounts.  The Argentine 
government itself was in flux during this period of turmoil.  Between December 2001 and early 
January 2002, when Citigroup was finalizing its results for 2001 and the fourth quarter of the year, 
there were five changes in leadership of the Argentine government.   

       The developments in Argentina had a significant impact on Citigroup’s Argentine 
operations and required Citigroup to make a number of complex accounting decisions as events 
occurred. In making these accounting decisions, Citigroup improperly accounted for certain items 
related to the crisis in a manner that significantly reduced the impact of these items on the 
company’s earnings.  

                                    Argentine Bond Swap 

       In early November 2001, the Argentine government issued a decree offering holders of 
certain market-traded Argentine government bonds the opportunity to exchange such bonds for 
Argentine government loans called Guaranteed Promissory Notes (“GPNs”) that would not be 
market-traded.  The Argentine government offered the Bond Swap in an effort to reduce 
Argentina’s debt service in the short-term and to avoid defaulting on its sovereign debt by 
extending the maturities of its debt obligations and reducing the coupon rates of the instruments.  
In addition to lower interest rates and longer terms, the GPNs offered in the Bond Swap had certain 
features that the swapped bonds did not have, including tax-exempt interest, a tax credit option that 
allowed the holder to offset any unpaid principal or interest against certain taxes, a collateral 
protection feature that gave the GPNs first call on certain tax receipts, and a provision for a step-up 
in tax basis. There was significant participation by local institutions in the Bond Swap. 

       Citigroup owned a total in book value of $681 million of Argentine government bonds 
eligible for the Bond Swap.  Citigroup’s Argentine insurance subsidiary, Siembra Administradora 
de Fondos de Jubilacianes y Pensiones S.A. (“Siembra”), owned $595 million of these bonds.  In 
addition, Citigroup’s Argentine banking operations owned approximately $86 million in bonds 
eligible for the Bond Swap.  In mid-November 2001, Citigroup local management decided to swap 

                                               3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

all $681 million of its eligible bonds and tendered these bonds to the Argentine government on 
November 29 and 30, 2001.  The Bond Swap was executed in mid-December 2001. 

       In accounting for the Bond Swap, GAAP required that the transaction be accounted for 
based on the most readily determinable fair value.1
                                                    Under GAAP, quoted market prices are 
considered to be the most reliable evidence of fair value.2
                                                           In certain circumstances, however, other 
approaches to determining fair value may be appropriate.  Citigroup consulted with its auditor as 
well as informally with Commission accounting staff regarding the proper approach to account for 
the Bond Swap. Both the Commission staff and Citigroup’s auditor came to express a preference 
for using the market value of the bonds surrendered in the exchange to account for the Bond Swap 
(the “Market Approach”).  The company, however, took the position that the bonds that were 
trading were not reflective of the fair value of the GPNs received and chose to use an alternate 
approach of looking to the value of the GPNs received in the exchange. 

       Citigroup used a discounted cash flow analysis to determine the fair value of the GPNs.3 
To arrive at the fair value, Citigroup incorporated several unreasonable assumptions into its 
analysis of the discount rate and thus overstated the value of the GPNs.  In particular, Citigroup 
used a pre-crisis risk rate that assumed that the collapsing Argentine economy would recover in the 
short term.  Notwithstanding the economic crisis and near daily changes in the Argentina 
government, Citigroup further assumed that, in the event the Argentine government defaulted on 
the GPNs, there was a high likelihood that the government would honor the collateral features of 
the GPNs, enabling Citigroup to recover all principal and interest.  Using the above assumptions 
and others, Citigroup determined that the fair value of the GPNs received in the Bond Swap by its 
Siembra subsidiary was $520 million and that the fair value of the GPN’s received by its Argentine 
banking operations was $79 million.  Based on this analysis, Citigroup recorded a pre-tax loss of 
$75 million on the Bond Swap by its Siembra subsidiary and a pre-tax loss of $7 million on the 
Bond Swap by its Argentine banking operations, for a total pre-tax loss on the Bond Swap of $82 
million. This loss was reflected in Citigroup’s January 18, 2002, Form 8-K and in the financial 
statements included in the company’s 2001 Form 10-K. 

1 
       See Practice Bulletin 4, Accounting for Foreign Debt/Equity Swaps; FAS 15, Accounting by 
Debtors and Creditors for Troubled Debt Restructurings at footnote 16; and APB 29, Accounting for 
Non-monetary Transactions. 
2 
       See Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115, Accounting for Investments in Debt 
and Equity Securities.  In 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board adopted Statement of 
Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (“FAS 157”).  FAS 157, in part, 
codifies and simplifies previous approaches and provides that “[a] quoted price in an active market 
provides the most reliable evidence of fair value and shall be used to measure fair value whenever 
available . . . .” 
3 
       A discounted cash flow analysis is a calculation that multiplies an investment’s future cash flows 
by discount factors to obtain the present value of the investment.  The purpose of the calculation is to 
estimate the amount of money that will be received from a security or other type of investment, adjusting 
for the time value of money.   

                                                4

---------------------Page 5---------------------

       While Citigroup’s approach may have been appropriate under the then existing 
circumstances, the assumptions that Citigroup applied were not reasonable and resulted in 
Citigroup understating its losses on the Bond Swap.  For example, in analyzing the discount rate, if 
Citigroup had used a country risk rate that reflected the current status of the collapsing Argentine 
economy rather than the pre-crisis risk rate reflecting more stable economic conditions, its losses 
would have been much greater.  Similarly, Citigroup’s losses would have been greater had it 
sufficiently taken into account the likelihood that the defaulting Argentine government would not 
be able to honor the collateral on the GPNs.  By applying reasonable assumptions to its discounted 
cash flow analysis, Citigroup would have recorded pre-tax Bond Swap losses of approximately 
$236 million for the fourth quarter of 2001, significantly more than the $82 million Citigroup 
actually recorded. These additional losses would have decreased the company’s earnings for the 
fourth quarter by $100.1 million after-tax, or approximately $.02 per share.4 

       Under the Market Approach, Citigroup would have recorded Bond Swap losses of $416 
million pre-tax, instead of the $82 million it actually recorded.  The impact of employing such an 
approach would have decreased the company’s earnings for the fourth quarter by $217.1 million 
after-tax, or approximately $.04 per share. 

                Other-Than-Temporary Impairment of Non-Swapped Bonds 

       A number of the Argentine government securities owned by Citigroup’s Argentine banking 
operations were not eligible for the Bond Swap.  These bonds, the Non-Swapped Bonds, totaled 
more than $380 million and were held in varying amounts by Citigroup throughout the fourth 
quarter of 2001. More specifically, at December 31, 2001, Citigroup’s Argentine banking 
operations held PAR Bonds (commonly known as Brady Bonds) with book value of $98.4 million, 
Bonos del Gobierno Nacional with book value of $134.9 million, and Patriotic Bonds with book 
value of $150.9 million. 

       Under GAAP, specifically Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115, 
Accounting for Investments in Debt and Equity Securities (“FAS 115”), Citigroup was required, 
at least quarterly, to assess the Non-Swapped Bonds to determine whether there was any decline in 
the fair value of these securities below their amortized cost and, if so, whether that decline was 
other-than-temporary. If the decline in fair value was other-than-temporary, Citigroup was 
required to record a charge to income for the quarter.  The determination of whether a decline in 
the value of a security is other-than-temporary is based on the review of a number of factors such 
as the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, including prospects for the 
geographic region; whether the issuer has defaulted on scheduled interest payments; the issuer’s 
ability to make future scheduled interest and principal payments on a timely basis; and whether 

4 
       In the third quarter of 2003, the Argentine government required Citigroup to return the GPNs and 
take back the bonds because Citigroup declined to follow a 2002 government decree requiring it to 
change the dollar-denominated GPNs to pesos. 

                                               5

---------------------Page 6---------------------

there has been any downgrade in ratings by rating agencies at the time of evaluation compared to 
the time of acquisition of the security. 5 

       Citigroup determined that the Non-Swapped Bonds were not impaired as of December 31, 
2001.  As a result, the company did not record any charge to income for these bonds.  At the time 
Citigroup reached this decision, the Argentine government was in the midst of an economic and 
political collapse.  The Argentine government recently had announced that it intended to default on 
its sovereign debt. In addition, credit rating agencies had significantly downgraded Argentina’s 
sovereign debt; and the majority of Argentine government bonds were trading well below $0.50 on 
the dollar. Thus, Citigroup’s determination that these bonds were not impaired was not reasonable. 

       The Brady Bonds were market-traded bonds that were collateralized by U.S. Treasury 
securities that guaranteed the principal of the bonds and one-year of interest.  Like almost all other 
Argentine bonds in the market, the Brady Bonds were trading well below their cost during the 
fourth quarter.  At December 31, 2001, the market value of the Brady Bonds held by Citigroup was 
$63.4 million, approximately $35 million less than their cost of $98.4 million.  Despite this 
significant decline in market value, notwithstanding the collateral, Citigroup determined that the 
bonds were not impaired.   

       The other two types of Non-Swapped Bonds, the Bonos del Gobierno Nacional and the 
Patriotic Bonds were not market-traded.  Citigroup concluded that there was no other-than-
temporary impairment of these bonds because they were collateralized by a tax credit option that 
allowed Citigroup to withhold tax payments to offset any government default on the bonds.  
Citigroup reached this conclusion, despite the fact that similar, market-traded securities were 
trading at a steep discount, including securities like the Brady Bonds that had reliable collateral.  In 
finding no impairment of the Bonos del Gobierno Nacional and the Patriotic Bonds, Citigroup 
necessarily assumed that the Argentine government would abide by its commitment to provide the 
tax credit option. This was during a period when the Argentine government had announced that it 
intended to default on its sovereign debt and when the political upheaval accompanying the 
country’s economic collapse led to five changes in leadership during December 2001 and early 
January 2002.6
                In light of the circumstances in Argentina at this time, Citigroup’s assumptions 
were not reasonable. 

       Citigroup recorded no charges to income for the fourth quarter of 2001 in connection with 
the Non-Swapped Bonds.  Had Citigroup determined that these bonds had an other-than-temporary 
impairment as of December 31, 2001, it would have been required to record a charge to income to 
reflect the decline in fair value of the bonds.  The amount of impairment of the Brady Bonds can be 
reasonably estimated at $35 million, based on the quoted market price of these bonds as of 

5 
       See, e.g., FAS 115; AICPA Statement of Auditing Standards No. 92, Auditing Derivative 
Instruments, Hedging Activities, and Investments in Securities. 
6 
       During the third quarter of 2002, the Argentine government suspended use of the tax credit 
option.  At that time, Citigroup determined that the Patriotic Bonds and the Bonos del Gobierno Nacional 
were other-than-temporarily impaired.  Citigroup also sold its Brady Bonds in the third quarter. 

                                                6

---------------------Page 7---------------------

December 31, 2001.  For the non-traded bonds, the Bonos del Gobierno Nacional and the Patriotic 
Bonds, the amount of impairment based on a reasonable determination of fair value, could be 
estimated at $22.5 million for the Bonos del Gobierno Nacional and $59.4 million for the Patriotic 
Bonds. With these estimates, had Citigroup determined that the Non-Swapped Bonds were other-
than-temporarily impaired as of December 31, 2001, the company should have recorded an 
aggregate pre-tax charge of approximately $117 million or $76 million after-tax.  This charge 
would have decreased the company’s earnings per share for the fourth quarter by more than $.01. 

                               Pesification of Consumer Loans 

       On January 6, 2002, the Argentine government issued a decree that, among other things, 
authorized it to mandate the conversion of certain consumer loans from dollars to pesos at a rate of 
one dollar to one peso (this mandatory conversion was referred to as “pesification”).  Citigroup 
owned over $1 billion in consumer loans that were subject to pesification.  Citigroup determined 
that it should account for the impact of the pesification decree in the fourth quarter of 2001. 

       In its January 6, 2002, decree and subsequent regulations, the Argentine government 
established an exchange rate for official transactions, namely import-export transactions, of 1.4 
pesos to 1 dollar.  The decree noted that all other transactions would be subject to a “free” 
exchange rate based on the rate used for open-market trading.  Because Argentina suspended 
foreign exchange transactions and closed banks from the end of December 2001 through January 
10, 2002, there was no “free” rate when Citigroup recorded its consumer loan pesification charge 
on January 9, 2002.  Using the only rate available on that day, 1.4 pesos to 1 dollar, Citigroup 
recorded a $235 million charge for consumer loan pesification losses for the fourth quarter of 2001. 

       On Friday, January 11, 2002, two days after Citigroup recorded its pesification losses, the 
Argentine banks were reopened, the trading suspension was lifted, and the market established a 
“free” rate of between 1.6 and 1.7 pesos to 1 dollar.  On Monday, January 14, 2002, Citigroup’s 
auditor informed Citigroup senior management that this “free” rate  was the proper rate under 
GAAP.  On that day or the next, Citigroup’s auditor further informed Citigroup senior 
management that all Argentine transactions, other than import/export transactions, were subject to 
the “free” rate and that members of the International Practices Task Force of the American Institute 
of Certified Public Accountants and the staffs of the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the 
Commission also had reached this conclusion. 

       Had Citigroup used a rate of 1.6, instead of 1.4, pesos to 1 dollar when accounting for these 
pesification losses, it should have recorded an additional charge of $57 million pre-tax or $37 
million after-tax for the fourth quarter of 2001.  This additional loss would have decreased the 
company’s earnings per share for the fourth quarter by less than $.01. 

                                               7

---------------------Page 8---------------------

                                       Bansud Disposition 

       On August 6, 2001, Citigroup acquired Banamex, a Mexican holding company with 
diverse financial institution operations.  At the time of acquisition, Citigroup intended to dispose of 
Bansud, a Banamex subsidiary conducting banking operations in Argentina. Citigroup agreed to 
sell Bansud in December 2001, and closed on the sale in early January 2002, several months after 
it had purchased Banamex.  During the period when Citigroup held Bansud, Argentina experienced 
the economic and political crisis described above, and Bansud suffered a substantial decline in 
value. 

       Citigroup determined that the applicable accounting for the Bansud disposition was EITF 
Issue No. 87-11, Allocation of Purchase Price to Assets to be Sold (“EITF 87-11”).  Under that 
provision, the decline in value of Bansud during the period when Citigroup held Bansud would 
impact Citigroup’s income only if the decline was attributable to specific identifiable economic 
events that occurred during the holding period.7 

       Citigroup reached a tentative agreement to sell Bansud in September 2001 for a loss of 
$401 million.  That agreement fell through in October 2001, and Citigroup continued holding 
Bansud until it reached a subsequent agreement to sell Bansud in early December 2001.  The 
transaction closed in early January 2002, and Citigroup had a loss of $552 million on its sale of 
Bansud. Citigroup treated the entire loss as a reallocation of the purchase price of Banamex and 
recorded the loss in goodwill, which was a balance sheet item that did not affect the company’s 
earnings. To reach this result, Citigroup concluded that the adverse developments in the Argentine 
economy and the related actions by the Argentine government, described above, during the fourth 
quarter of 2001 were not specific identifiable economic events that caused the decline in the value 
of Bansud. Citigroup’s position was not reasonable, particularly considering the impact of the 
Argentine economic crisis on financial institutions like Bansud. 

       By improperly treating the entire $552 million loss on the sale of Bansud as a reallocation 
of the purchase price rather than as a loss due to specific identifiable economic events, Citigroup 
avoided a charge to income.  Had Citigroup properly accounted for the transaction, it would have 
recorded a pre-tax charge to income of at least $151 million, representing the difference between 
the $552 million ultimate loss on the sale of Bansud and the $401 million anticipated loss from the 
October 2001 failed attempt to sell Bansud.8 
                                             This additional $151 million pre-tax or $98.2 

7 
       In relevant part, EITF 87-11 provides that the difference between the carrying amount at the time of 
sale of a subsidiary intended to be disposed of and the proceeds from the sale lead to a reallocation of the 
purchase price rather than a gain or loss to earnings, unless specific identifiable economic events occurred 
during the holding period that change the fair value of the subsidiary from the fair value estimated at the 
time of acquisition.  If specific identifiable economic events that decrease the value of the subsidiary occur 
during the holding period, that decline in value is to be reflected as a charge to the parent company’s income 
for the quarter. 
8 
       The lack of documentation relating to Citigroup’s accounting for the disposition of Bansud makes 
it difficult to reach a conclusive determination of the full amount of the losses that should have been 
charged to income.  
                                                 8

---------------------Page 9---------------------

million after-tax loss would have decreased the company’s earnings per share for the fourth 
quarter by nearly $.02. 

                                 Citigroup’s Financial Results 

       On January 17, 2002, Citigroup issued a press release announcing its results.  Among other 
things, the company reported that its earnings for the fourth quarter of 2001 were $3.88 billion,9
                                                                                               or 
diluted earnings per share of $.74, which included a $470 million pre-tax charge related to 
Argentina. Citigroup’s reported results were $.01 per share above analysts’ consensus earnings 
estimates for the period.10
                           If Citigroup had properly recorded the charges related to the Bond 
Swap, the Non-Swapped Bonds, the pesification of consumer loans, and the Bansud disposition 
described above, the company’s earnings per share for the quarter would have been no more than 
$.68, or $.05 below consensus earnings estimates for the quarter.   

       On January 18, 2002, Citigroup filed a Form 8-K with the Commission that incorporated 
the company’s January 17, 2002, earnings release.  In addition to reporting earnings of $3.88 
billion, and diluted earnings per share of $.74, the company further reported that its core earnings 
per share increased 14% over those earnings for the fourth quarter of 2000.  If Citigroup had 
recorded the charges described above related to the Bond Swap, the Non-Swapped Bonds, the 
pesification of consumer loans, and the Bansud disposition, these results would have differed 
materially because the company would have recorded additional charges after tax of at least $311 
million. 

       On March 12, 2002, Citigroup filed its annual report on Form 10-K for 2001.  For the 
fourth quarter of 2001, Citigroup reported earnings of $3.875 billion and diluted earnings per share 
of $.74. As set forth above, these results were misstated.  The company’s earnings for the quarter 
were no more than $3.56 billion.  In its 2001 Form 10-K, Citigroup also reported earnings for fiscal 
year 2001 of $14.13 billion, or $2.72 per diluted share.  If Citigroup had recorded the charges 
described above related to the Bond Swap, the Non-Swapped Bonds, the pesification of consumer 
loans, and the Bansud disposition, it would have reported 2001 earnings of no more than $13.82 
billion and its diluted earnings per share for the year would have been no more than $2.66. 

D.     LEGAL ANALYSIS 

       As a result of the conduct described above, Citigroup violated Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 
and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-11. 

       Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act requires issuers of registered securities to file periodic 
reports with the Commission containing information prescribed by Commission rules and 

9 
       The $3.88 billion in earnings was a rounded number from the $3.875 billion that the company 
reported in its financial supplement to its January 17, 2002, press release and, subsequently, in its Form 
10-K filed on March 12, 2002. 
10 
       At the time, each $52 million of after-tax earnings equated to earnings per share of $.01. 
                                                9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

regulations.  Exchange Act Rule 13a-1 requires issuers to file annual reports on Form 10-K, and 
Exchange Act Rule 13a-11 requires issuers to file current reports on Form 8-K.  Further, Exchange 
Act Rule 12b-20 requires that, in addition to the information required to be included in annual and 
current reports, such further material information as may be necessary to make the required 
statements not misleading also must be included.  These annual and current reports must be 
complete and accurate. See SEC v. Savoy Industries, 587 F.2d 1149, 1165 (D.C. Cir. 1978).  Rule 
210.4-01 of Regulation S-X provides that financial statements filed with the Commission are 
presumed misleading or inaccurate if they are not prepared in conformity with GAAP. 11 
Citigroup’s accounting for the Bond Swap, the Non-Swapped Bonds, the pesification of consumer 
loans, and the sale of Bansud was not in conformity with GAAP.   

       With respect to the Bond Swap, the relevant accounting guidance, which Citigroup 
reviewed at the time,12
                       provided that registrants should determine fair value by following an 
approach that provides the most clearly evident or readily determinable value of the instrument 
received in the exchange.  This GAAP guidance reflected a preference for using quoted market 
prices because they provide an objective and reliable value of the instrument exchanged.13
                                                                                           The 
guidance provided, however, that, in certain circumstances, other approaches to determining fair 
value may also be appropriate. 

       Citigroup took the position that the quoted market prices of the bonds surrendered were not 
a reliable indicator of the value of the GPNs that it received.  Instead, Citigroup used a discounted 
cash flow analysis of the GPNs to determine their fair value.  Regardless of whether this approach 
was appropriate, Citigroup’s discounted cash flow analysis was based on unreasonable 
assumptions that caused Citigroup to overvalue the GPNs. 

       A discounted cash flow analysis of the GPNs using reasonable assumptions would have 
resulted in a fourth quarter pre-tax loss of approximately $236 million on the Bond Swap.  Thus, 
Citigroup’s pre-tax Bond Swap losses for the fourth quarter should have been in the range of $236 
million to $416 million (the amount of the loss under the Market Approach).  Citigroup thus should 
have recorded a pre-tax loss of at least $236 million on the Bond Swap, or at least $154 million 
more than the amount included in the financial statements and other financial results in Citigroup’s 
2001 Form 10-K and the company’s January 18, 2002, Form 8-K.   

       With respect to the Non-Swapped Bonds, for the reasons described above, Citigroup 
improperly failed to record any charge to income.  Had Citigroup properly assessed the fair value 

11 
       17 CFR § 210.4-01(a)(1). 
12 
       Because it determined that there was no accounting guidance specifically addressing an exchange 
of bonds for loans, Citigroup considered the following analogous accounting literature:  Statement of 
Financial Accounting Standards No. 115, Accounting for Investments in Debt and Equity Securities; 
Practice Bulletin 4, Accounting for Foreign Debt/Equity Swaps; and EITF Issue No. 94-8, Accounting for 
a Conversion of a Loan into a Debt Security in a Debt Restructuring. 
13 
       See id.; see also Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, Fair Value 
Measurements. 
                                               10

---------------------Page 11---------------------

of the Non-Swapped Bonds, Citigroup would have found that the fair value of these bonds had 
declined significantly.  Applying a reasonable valuation indicates that these bonds had an other-
than-temporary impairment as of the fourth quarter in the amount of approximately $117 million 
pre-tax or $76 million after-tax.  Thus, Citigroup should have recorded a pre-tax loss of $117 
million on the Non-Swapped Bonds and included this loss in the financial statements and other 
financial results set forth in Citigroup’s 2001 Form 10-K and the company’s January 18, 2002, 
Form 8-K. 

       In connection with Citigroup’s accounting for its consumer loan pesification losses, 
Citigroup improperly recorded a loss to income in its fourth quarter financial results of only $235 
million pre-tax.  As discussed, Citigroup’s reported loss was based on an exchange rate of 1.4 
pesos to one dollar.  Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 52, Foreign Currency 
Translation, provides that the appropriate exchange rate is the rate at which the foreign-currency 
denominated asset could be settled at the end of the period. Pursuant to the Argentine 
government’s pesification decree, that rate was the free market rate on the date the markets opened, 
or between 1.6 and 1.7 pesos to 1 dollar.  Citigroup did not follow these GAAP guidelines or 
guidance from its auditor, who advised Citigroup to use a rate of at least 1.6 pesos to one dollar, 
and instead used a rate of 1.4 pesos to one dollar.  Had Citigroup used a rate of 1.6 pesos to one 
dollar, it would have incurred an additional loss of $57 million pre-tax or $37 million after-tax for 
the fourth quarter. Thus, Citigroup should have recorded a pre-tax loss of $292 million on the 
consumer loan pesification issue, or $57 million more than the amount included in the financial 
statements and other financial results set forth in Citigroup’s 2001 Form 10-K and the company’s 
January 18, 2002, Form 8-K.  

       Citigroup’s accounting for the disposition of Bansud also was not in conformity with 
GAAP.  As discussed above, EITF Issue No. 87-11 provides that, if specific identifiable economic 
events occurred during the holding period that decreased the value of the subsidiary, that decline in 
value was to be reflected as a charge to the parent company’s income for the quarter.  Despite the 
collapse of the Argentine economy and the related actions by the Argentine government during the 
holding period, Citigroup did not record a charge to income for the fourth quarter to reflect 
Bansud’s decline in value, as required by EITF 87-11.  Had Citigroup complied with EITF 87-11, 
the company would have incurred a loss to income of at least $151 million for the fourth quarter of 
2001.  Thus, Citigroup should have recorded a pre-tax loss of $151 million or $98.2 million after-
tax on the sale of Bansud and included that loss in the financial statements and other financial 
results set forth in Citigroup’s 2001 Form 10-K and the company’s January 18, 2002, Form 8-K. 

       As a result of its improper accounting for the Bond Swap, the Non-Swapped Bonds, the 
pesification of consumer loans, and the Bansud disposition, Citigroup materially misstated the 
financial results that it reported in its 2001 Form 10-K and its January 18, 2002, Form 8-K.  As set 
forth above, these misstatements included Citigroup’s reported fourth quarter 2001 earnings of 
$3.875 billion, which were overstated by at least $311 million, or 8%, after tax, and the company’s 
reported diluted earnings per share of $.74, which were overstated by at least $.06.  Citigroup thus 
violated Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-11. 

                                               11

---------------------Page 12---------------------

       Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires reporting companies to make and keep 
books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the issuer.  As described above, the manner in which 
Citigroup accounted for the Bond Swap, the Non-Swapped Bonds, the pesification of the consumer 
loans, and the disposition of Bansud resulted in the company’s financial statements for 2001, 
including the results for the fourth quarter of the year, being inaccurate, and the underlying 
documentation related to the improper accounting also was inaccurate.14
                                                                         Citigroup thus violated 
Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act. 

       Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, in relevant part, requires reporting companies 
to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable 
assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial 
statements in conformity with GAAP or other applicable criteria.  As reflected above, 
Citigroup’s system of internal controls was not sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that 
the value of the GPNs received in the Bond Swap, the changes in value of the Non-Swapped 
Bonds, and the disposition loss on the sale of Bansud were recorded in accordance with GAAP. 
Citigroup thus violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. 

                                               IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Citigroup’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 

       Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent Citigroup cease and desist from 
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-11.   

 By        the Commission. 

       F                                              lorence E. Harmon
       A                                              cting Secretary 

14 
       In this regard, it is noteworthy that Citigroup’s purported support for the company’s accounting 
related to the Non-Swapped Bonds and the Bansud transaction consisted of brief internal memoranda.  
Among other things, the memorandum concerning the Non-Swapped Bonds did not properly analyze 
whether the bonds were impaired.  The memorandum related to the Bansud transaction was not prepared 
until months after the company filed its Form 10-K for 2001 and set forth the erroneous conclusion that 
there were no specific identifiable economic events, as defined in EITF 87-01, that occurred during the 
holding period to change the value of Bansud. 
                                               12

