---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                    STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                              the 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
                                         February 16, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12208 
 
                                              
                                              
In the Matter of                              
                                             ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
       KEVIN HALL, CPA, and                  ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS  
            ROSEMARY MEYER, CPA              PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE  
                                             COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE  
Respondents. 
 
 
                                                                
                                                  I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Kevin Hall, CPA (“Hall”) and 
Rosemary Meyer, CPA (“Meyer”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice to determine whether Hall and Meyer engaged in improper professional conduct.      1
                                                    

                                                 
1
       Rule 102(e)(1) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
       The Commission may censure a person or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
       practicing before it in any way to any person who is found by the Commission after notice and opportunity 
       for hearing in the matter:  
        
                       ... (ii) To be lacking in character or integrity or to have engaged in unethical or improper 
       professional conduct; ... 
 
               (iv) With respect to persons licensed to practice as accountants, “improper professional conduct’ 
       under §201.102(e)(1)(ii) means: (A) Intentional or knowing conduct, including reckless conduct, that 
       results in a violation of applicable professional standard; or (B) Either of the following two types of 
       negligent conduct: 
                        (1) A single instance of highly unreasonable conduct that results in a violation of 
               applicable professional standards in circumstances in which an accountant knows, or should know, 
               that heightened scrutiny is warranted.  
                       (2) Repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of 
               applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice before the 
               Commission . 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              II. 
 
              After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement and the Office of the Chief Accountant 
allege that:  
 
A. SUMMARY     
 
       1.  This matter concerns two KPMG auditors who engaged in improper professional 
conduct in the audit and review of the financial statements of U.S. Foodservice, Inc. (“USF”), a 
Columbia, Maryland based foodservice and distribution company.  Respondents Hall and Meyer 
were the engagement partner and senior manager, respectively, for the audit and review work that 
KPMG performed for USF.   The conduct at issue concerns KPMG’s audit of USF for the 1999 
fiscal year and interim review for the second quarter of 2000.  
 
       2.   Beginning as early as 1998, USF engaged in a scheme to overstate the operating 
income reported in USF's financial statements, which were audited by KPMG and included in 
USF’s Commission filings.  A significant portion of USF’s operating income was based on 
payments by its vendors, referred to as promotional allowances (“PAs”).  USF artificially inflated 
its operating income by recording PAs that were not earned in the period recorded, and in many 
cases were entirely fictitious.   
 
       3.  Hall and Meyer identified the valuation, existence and completeness of promotional 
income and receivables as a critical audit objective requiring heightened scrutiny.  In the course of 
the 1999 year end audit, Hall and Meyer found numerous instances where USF recognized PA 
income when it should not have.  Nevertheless, Hall and Meyer refused to act upon – or failed to 
recognize – these and other “red flags” they encountered. 
        
       4.  In vouching vendor PA payments received by USF in the course of the 1999 audit, Hall 
and Meyer discovered that USF had recognized substantial unearned “prepayments” of PA income 
from its vendors.  The working papers show that Hall and Meyer reviewed PA contracts that 
contained prepayment provisions.  Other working papers prepared by Hall and Meyer identified – 
as “audit exceptions” – specific vendor prepayments and other instances where USF improperly 
recognized PA income.  Notations in the working paper referencing these audit exceptions, 
however, were subsequently covered up by liquid white-out.  
 
       5.  The existence of prepayments – while evidence of USF’s fraud – directly and explicitly 
contradicted USF management’s repeated representations that USF did not obtain vendor 
prepayments.  Despite these apparent misrepresentations by USF management, Hall and Meyer did 
not take the necessary additional steps to either clarify these inconsistencies or bring the problems 
to the attention of USF’s Audit Committee or others. 
 
       6.  Hall and Meyer also failed to identify as exceptions numerous other inconsistencies that 
they encountered during their audit testing of vendor PA payments.  Hall and Meyer obtained and 
reviewed audit evidence that directly contradicted USF’s accounting for many of the payments that 
they tested. 

                                               2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

        
       7.  Also during the 1999 audit, Hall and Meyer tested USF’s PA receivables balances by 
confirming with third party vendors that they had received selected invoices and that the amounts 
of these invoices had been fully earned in USF’s fiscal year 1999.  However, Hall and Meyer 
allowed almost half of all the third party confirmations to go to – and be signed by – brokers who 
lacked any apparent connection with the vendor to whom the underlying invoice was addressed.  
Thus, Hall and Meyer had no adequate basis to conclude that the brokers in question were 
knowledgeable of the information contained in the confirmations. 
        
       8.  Hall and Meyer also violated professional standards in connection with their 
examination of a supply contract during KPMG’s fiscal year 2000 second quarter review.  Having 
reviewed the accounting for the contract in detail, Hall and Meyer were aware that USF had to pay 
substantial penalties if minimum purchase requirements were not met.  Hall and Meyer also knew 
that USF paid $15 million in penalties during the first two quarters of fiscal year 2000 and was 
likely to continue incurring penalties under the contract (because its purchases were increasingly 
lower than targeted amounts).  Despite this knowledge, Hall and Meyer allowed USF to avoid 
expensing these payments and failed to require USF to assess its exposure to a contingent liability 
under the contract. 
 
       9.  Although most of the red flags were simply ignored, when Hall and Meyer did ask 
questions or raise issues, they improperly and repeatedly relied on management representations to 
confirm previous management representations, even though these statements were contradicted by 
objective evidence such as executed contracts and information from third parties. 
 
       10.  As a result, Hall and Meyer failed to comply with Generally Accepted Auditing 
Standards (“GAAS”) by unreasonably: (i) failing to exercise due professional care; (ii) failing to 
maintain an attitude of professional skepticism; (iii) failing to obtain sufficient competent 
evidential matter; (iv) substituting management representations for competent evidence; (v) failing 
to properly design and conduct audit confirmation procedures; and (vi) failing to require material 
adjustment to interim financial statements during their review engagement.  
    
B. RESPONDENTS 
 
       11.  Kevin M. Hall, age 51, was the KPMG engagement partner responsible for the USF 
audit and review engagements from at least June 1997 to April 2000.  Hall became a CPA in 1977 
and is licensed to practice in four states and the District of Columbia. 
 
       12.  Rosemary K. Meyer, age 35, was the KPMG engagement senior manager responsible 
for the USF audit and review engagements from at least June 1997 to April 2000.  Meyer was 
promoted to partner in October 2003.  Meyer is a licensed CPA in Maryland. 
 
C. RELATED PARTIES 
 
       13.  KPMG LLP (“KPMG”) is the U.S. member firm of KPMG International, a Swiss 
cooperative, and is headquartered in New York, New York.  From late 1996 through April of 2000, 

                                               3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

KPMG’s Baltimore, Maryland office served as USF’s independent auditors.  As auditor, KPMG 
opined that the USF’s financial statements for fiscal years 1997 through 1999 were prepared in 
conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) and that they had 
conducted their audits in accordance with GAAS. 
 
       14.  U.S. Foodservice, Inc. is a broad-line distributor of foods headquartered in Columbia, 
Maryland.  USF purchases goods from vendors and re-sells them to customers, such as restaurants, 
hotels, healthcare facilities, cafeterias, and schools.  During the periods audited by KPMG, USF 
operated on a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to June 30.  Accordingly, 
USF’s fiscal quarters ended on the Saturday closest to the end of the calendar quarter.   
 
       15.  Royal Ahold is an international food provider based in the Netherlands.  Royal 
Ahold’s American Depository Receipts (“ADRs”) are traded on the New York Stock Exchange.  
In April 2000, Royal Ahold acquired USF, and Deloitte and Touche assumed KPMG’s 
responsibilities as USF’s independent auditor. 
 
D. RESPONDENTS’ IMPROP              ER PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT 
        
       Applicable Professional Standards 
 
       16.  The “applicable professional standards” of care for accountants practicing before the 
Commission include GAAP and GAAS.  GAAS consists of ten auditing standards, including three 
General Standards, three Standards of Fieldwork, and four Standards of Reporting.  In addition to 
the auditing standards, GAAS prescribes various procedures used by auditors to comply with the 
auditing standards. 
 
       17.  GAAS requires accountants to exercise reasonable diligence and due professional care 
while both planning and executing the audit of financial statements.  In exercising professional 
skepticism, auditors are required to maintain a questioning mind when evaluating audit evidence.  
AICPA Codification of Statements on Auditing Standards, “Due Professional Care in the 
Performance of Work,” AU § 230.07.  Auditors are also not allowed to become satisfied with less 
than persuasive evidence because they believe that management is honest.  AU § 230.09. 
 
       18.  During fieldwork, an auditor must obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to 
provide a reasonable basis to render an audit opinion.  AICPA Codification of Statements on 
Auditing Standards, “Evidential Matter,” AU § 326.  GAAS attaches significantly more value to 
evidence obtained from independent sources outside the entity being audited.  AU § 326.21. 
 

                                              4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       19.  GAAS requires an auditor to obtain representations from management as part of an 
audit.  AICPA Codification of Statements on Auditing Standards, “Management Representations,” 
AU § 333.  An auditor cannot substitute management representations for competent evidence: 
“During an audit, management makes many representations to the auditor, both oral and written, in 
response to specific inquiries or through the financial statements.  Such representations from 
management are part of the evidential matter the independent auditor obtains, but they are not a 
substitute for the application of those auditing procedures necessary to afford a reasonable basis for 
an opinion regarding the financial statements under audit.”  AU § 333.02.   
 
       20.  GAAS provides that confirmations are to be sent to people who are “knowledgeable 
about the information to be confirmed.”  AICPA Codification of Statements on Auditing 
Standards, “The Confirmation Process,” AU § 330.26.  When designing and conducting the 
confirmation process, “an appropriate level of professional skepticism” is required of auditors.  AU 
§ 330.15.  For example:  “Auditors need to consider the possibility that client personnel at various 
levels may participate in schemes that result in the overstatement of revenue.  In some cases, 
customers and suppliers may be involved in such schemes as well.”  (AICPA Practice Alert 98-3, 
par. 3).  The intended respondent of a confirmation request has a “direct effect on the reliability of 
the evidence obtained.”  AU § 330.16.  Thus, the confirmation should be sent “to a respondent 
from whom the auditor can expect the response will provide meaningful and competent evidence.”  
AU § 330.27. 
 
       21.  Under GAAS, the standard for interim reviews differs from those for year-end audits.  
AICPA Codification of Statements on Auditing Standards, “Interim Financial Information,” AU 
§ 722.  The primary objective of an interim review “is to provide the accountant, based on applying 
his or her knowledge of financial reporting practices to significant accounting matters of which he 
or she becomes aware through inquiries and analytical procedures, with a basis for reporting 
whether material modifications should be made for such information to conform with generally 
accepted accounting principles.”  AU § 722.09.  GAAS specifically mentions “the development of 
other contingencies” as a potential “significant change” relevant to a review that could affect 
interim financial reporting.  AU § 722.16.  When an auditor “becomes aware of information that 
leads him or her to question whether the interim financial information to be reported conforms with 
generally accepted accounting principles, the accountant should make additional inquiries or 
employ other procedures he or she considers appropriate to provide the limited assurance for a 
review engagement.”  AU § 722.18. 
 
       KPMG’s Audit Program for PAs 
        
       22.  In a typical PA agreement, USF committed to purchase a minimum volume from a 
vendor.  The vendor in turn paid USF a per unit rebate of a portion of the original price it charged 
USF, according to an agreed-upon payment schedule.  USF’s PA agreements with vendors 
frequently required the vendor to pay large up-front payments – prepayments of PAs expected to 
be earned over the life of the contract – well into the millions of dollars. 
 
       23.  Hall and Meyer previously identified USF’s accounting for PAs as a high risk audit 
area.  During the 1998 audit, Hall and Meyer opted to add an additional representation to the 1998 

                                               5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

management representation letters stating that all PA amounts accrued and collected were earned 
in fiscal year 1998.  
 
       24.  During their fiscal year 1999 audit, Hall and Meyer knew that USF’s dependence on 
PAs was rapidly growing.  They knew that PAs were critical to USF’s financial results – without 
them, USF would have operated at a loss.   
 
       25.  USF recorded PA income of approximately $350 million (as an offset to cost of sales), 
which significantly exceeded its operating earnings of approximately $212 million as reported in 
its Form 10-K for the year ended July 3, 1999. 
 
       26.  Hall and Meyer also knew that USF had no comprehensive, automated system for 
tracking the amounts owed by vendors pursuant to the PA agreements.  Instead, USF appeared to 
employ a significant amount of manual effort and management judgment in estimating and 
recording PA income.  USF also purportedly relied heavily on its vendors to provide it with actual 
purchasing information upon which USF purportedly based its PA estimates.  Hall and Meyer 
recognized that this subjective process exposed USF to potentially material errors in income 
recognition and financial reporting.   
        
       27.  Based on their understanding of USF’s business risks and weak control environment, 
Hall and Meyer identified the valuation, existence and completeness of promotional income and 
receivables as a “critical audit objective.”  Hall and Meyer also recognized that PAs were “critical 
to the fair presentation of the Company’s financial statements.”   
        
       28.  Hall and Meyer acknowledged that testing of PAs would require special scrutiny and, 
therefore, planned to perform significant testing on PA income and receivables.  Hall and Meyer 
assumed responsibility for the detail testing themselves rather than delegating the work to more 
junior audit staff. 
 
       29.  For KPMG’s audit for fiscal year 1999, Hall and Meyer designed an audit program 
related to PAs that included: (1) testing vendor PA payments received in fiscal 1999 and applied to 
reduce fiscal 1998 and 1999 receivables; (2) testing subsequent PA payments received during early 
fiscal 2000 and applied to fiscal 1999 receivables; (3) recalculating selected PA income balances 
recorded by USF through examination of PA contracts and vendor correspondence; and (4) 
seeking third party confirmation from vendors of outstanding PA balances. 
 
       30. Hall and Meyer failed to exercise due professional care and violated other applicable 
professional standards in executing these planned audit steps.  
        
       Deficient Cash Receipts Testing of PAs 
        
       31.  To evaluate the collectibility and validity of PA receivables, KPMG sought to perform 
extensive vouching of vendor PA payments received by USF.  Vouching of cash receipts allowed 
KPMG to test the legitimacy of USF’s purported policy of applying cash receipts to the oldest 
vendor invoice if the payment purpose was not specifically identified by the vendor.  Finally, 

                                               6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

vouching vendor payments allowed KPMG to determine whether vendor prepayments existed and, 
if so, whether they were properly deferred.   
        
       32.  While vendor prepayments of anticipated PA earnings are a common practice in the 
foodservice industry, USF management represented to KPMG (both orally and in writing) that 
USF did not receive prepayments from vendors and, therefore, applied all vendor collections as 
immediate reductions of receivables.  The representation was important because GAAP did not 
allow USF to apply prepayments as immediate reductions of PA receivables.  Instead, GAAP 
required USF to record a deferred liability for the amount of the prepayment until those monies 
were earned.   
 
       33.  As part of their testing of 1999 cash receipts, Hall and Meyer sought evidence that 
vendor payments received in fiscal 1999 were applied by USF against the proper 1998 or 1999 
vendor receivable balances.  To perform these tests, Hall and Meyer selected 50 vendor payments 
and reviewed copies of the vendor remittances and checks.  The audit working paper evidencing 
the cash receipts testing performed by Hall and Meyer bears the identifier “D-31.”  That working 
paper has the explanatory note:  “KPMG obtained copies of vendor remittances and check copies 
and vouched cash received during fiscal 1999, on a test basis.  See tick mark definitions.” 
 
       34.  Of the 50 payments selected for testing by Hall and Meyer, the majority showed that 
the payments were improperly applied by USF as reductions to vendor receivable balances for the 
wrong fiscal year.   
 
       35.   Hall and Meyer noted six audit exceptions where USF’s payment allocation did not 
match the purpose of the payments as reflected in vendor remittance advices.  The KPMG working 
papers highlight significant audit deficiencies with respect to the six audit exceptions identified by 
Hall and Meyer.  A footnote contained on working paper D-31 states “[i]n certain instances, 
KPMG noted that vendor remittances and PGM [Product Group Manager] notes differed with 
respect to application.  Those items are denoted by [a] bold *.”  (emphasis in original).  As it was 
originally produced to the SEC, the copy of the cash receipts testing working paper D-31 does not 
contain any asterisks identifying the audit exceptions discovered by Hall and Meyer.   
 
       36.  Obscured underneath liquid white-out, the original working paper D-31 reveals six 
handwritten black asterisks denoting six audit exceptions identified by Hall and Meyer.  The six 
audit exceptions involved the following vendor payments: (1.) Sara Lee/Superior Coffee - 
$4,000,000; (2.) Nabisco - $1,796,203; (3.) Tyson Foods - $2,266,882; (4.) Dakota Growers Pasta - 
$240,000; (5.) Dakota Growers Pasta - $123,868; and (6.) CSC - $450,000.      
 
       37.  Four of the six exceptions identified by Hall and Meyer (Sara Lee, Tyson Foods, 
Nabisco and Dakota Growers (the $240,000 payment)) were prepayments that would not be 
earned, in whole or in part, until fiscal year 2000 or later.  Rather than recording the unearned 
portions of these payments as deferred liabilities, USF improperly recorded them as reductions to 
accounts receivable thereby falsely asserting that these payments were earned as of July 3, 1999.   
 

                                               7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

       38.  KPMG’s own working papers identify the Tyson Foods and Nabisco cash receipts as 
prepayments, which Hall and Meyer had been repeatedly told by USF management did not exist.  
Working paper D-31 documents the Tyson Foods cash receipt as “99 m/a prepay” [m/a means 
‘merchandizing allowance’], which is the same as the note – “99 m/a prepay” – on the remittance 
that was attached to the check.  Likewise, the reference in working paper D-31 to the Nabisco cash 
receipt contains a notation, obscured by liquid white-out, “advance on USF baked good 
agreement.”  In fact, the remittance advice that accompanied the wire transfer from Nabisco states 
“REF: ADVANCE ON US FOODSERVICE BAKED GOOD AGREEMENT $1,196,202.71 
AND CONVERSION ALLOWNCE (sic) OF $600,000.”  In addition, the Nabisco PA contract in 
effect at the time, which Hall and Meyer obtained and reviewed, contained prepayment provisions 
requiring Nabisco to make an advance payment to USF that was not earned until USF had satisfied 
certain purchase volume requirements in fiscal year 2000.    
 
       39.  Upon discovering these audit exceptions, Hall and Meyer faced a potential 
management integrity issue given the repeated, specific and explicit representations made to 
KPMG that USF did not obtain prepayments from vendors.  Additionally, the apparent 
misapplication of cash and improper reduction of old receivables brought into question the 
collectibility and legitimacy of previously recorded PA income. 
 
       40.  With regard to the Nabisco audit exception, per Hall’s and Meyer’s request, USF 
provided them with a letter from Nabisco marked as working paper “D-31a.”  However, that letter 
should have raised even more questions.  First, the amount referenced on D-31a was not the full 
amount that Hall and Meyer had selected for detailed testing.  Second, D-31a suggested that at 
least some portion of the payment was on its face applicable to USF’s fiscal years 1998 and 1999, 
yet USF improperly applied the entire payment to fiscal year 1999.  Despite these obvious 
discrepancies, Hall and Meyer accepted D-31a as though it adequately supported USF’s 
accounting. 
 
       41.  With regard to the five other audit exceptions, Hall and Meyer discussed with USF 
management the “99 m/a prepay” reference and the overall discrepancy between USF’s accounting 
treatment of the exceptions and the underlying vendor remittances.  Hall and Meyer documented 
on working paper “D-25a” that a member of USF management had obtained oral confirmation 
from these vendors that the receipts were properly allocated by USF and none of them constituted 
prepayments for 1999.  USF management thus told Hall and Meyer that the vendors’ remittance 
advices were wrong.   
 
       42.  Working paper D-25a also suggested the remaining five exceptions noted on D-31 
were cleared by additional work shown at working paper “D-32.” 
 
       43.  D-32 has not been produced to the SEC despite being requested and subject to 
administrative subpoena.  Hall and Meyer cannot now establish whether the document ever 
existed.  During the investigation SEC staff requested that KPMG set forth its conclusion relating 
to the existence of, and reference to, the D-32 workpaper.  After consultation with Hall, Meyer and 
others who worked on the 1999 audit, counsel for KPMG, Hall and Meyer responded in a letter to 

                                              8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

the SEC staff that “the reference to a D-32 workpaper was errant – that is, that there was no D-32 
workpaper.” 
 
       44.  To clear the remaining five exceptions from D-31, Hall and Meyer simply accepted 
USF management’s explanation that the receipts were properly allocated to fiscal year 1998 or 
1999 receivables and did not constitute prepayments.   
 
       45.  This was not the first audit in which Hall and Meyer had discovered vendor 
prepayments and accepted management’s explanations without any further corroboration or audit 
evidence.  During their audit of USF’s fiscal year 1998 financial statements, KPMG reviewed 
vendor correspondence referencing a prepayment from Sara Lee/Superior Coffee made to USF 
within the last week of the fiscal year.  Hall and Meyer accepted USF management’s explanation 
that the prepayment was earned in fiscal year 1998 and, therefore, no longer considered this as an 
audit exception.  KPMG did not perform any additional audit procedures to independently 
determine whether the payment in fact related to fiscal year 1998 or was a prepayment for 
subsequent periods.  
 
       46.  In addition to failing to properly resolve the exceptions and inconsistencies they did 
find during the 1999 audit, Hall and Meyer failed to identify, and seek resolution of, additional 
glaring audit exceptions that were apparent during their PA cash receipts testing.   
 
       47.  Hall and Meyer relied almost exclusively on USF’s purchasing managers, who 
supposedly had researched and identified the purpose of the payments and documented the proper 
application on the remittance advices.  The related remittances reveal that USF personnel simply 
handwrote that such payments were applicable towards fiscal 1998 or 1999 invoices/receivables.    
 
       48.  Hall and Meyer accepted these internal handwritten designations despite seeing vendor 
remittances showing that the payments related to receivable balances for a different period than 
allocated by USF.  For example, the vendor remittance for a Basic American payment indicated 
that the payment was for PAs earned in fiscal year 1999 but USF applied the payment against 
Basic American’s fiscal year 1998 receivable balance. 
 
       49.  The audit failures in this area had serious adverse consequences.  Given that vendors 
were making timely payments for fiscal 1999 PA monies, but not making payments toward older 
receivable balances on USF’s books, Hall and Meyer should have recognized the possibility (and – 
as it turned out – the reality) that this and other 1998 PA receivable and income balances were 
inflated and not earned as recorded by USF.    
 
       50.  Many other payments likewise provided inadequate information as to allocation and 
were payments for an altogether different purpose.  In certain instances, handwritten notes by USF 
personnel on the check remittance show that payments from one vendor were allocated to multiple 
unrelated A/R balances. 
        
       51.  In these and many other cases, Hall and Meyer did not denote the inconsistencies as 
audit exceptions warranting further follow up procedures.  In all these instances, Hall and Meyer 

                                               9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

performed procedures to test management representations; obtained evidence that management’s 
representations were wrong; and then simply relied on additional management representations to 
accept the representation they were trying to test.   
 
       Inadequate Testing of Subsequent Receipts 
        
       52.  In their fiscal year 1999 audit, Hall and Meyer performed “subsequent receipts 
testing.”  Hall and Meyer examined five payments received in the beginning of fiscal year 2000 to 
determine whether USF properly used those payments to pay down accounts receivable balances 
that had been recorded at the end of fiscal year 1999.  The testing design was to make sure the 
fiscal year 2000 payments received in fact related to the fiscal year 1999 receivable balance against 
which those payments were applied.    
        
       53.  Most of the checks that Hall and Meyer reviewed were sent from third-party 
purchasing agents purportedly representing multiple USF vendors and the checks did not designate 
the purpose of the payments or the vendors to which the payments should be applied.   
 
       54.  In other instances, the checks that Hall and Meyer used to verify proper cash 
application did not match up, i.e., the check was from another entity or the amount differed from 
the amount selected for testing, yet Hall and Meyer failed to follow up.  
 
       55.  Some of the checks reviewed by KPMG were for amounts significantly larger than the 
amount that KPMG selected for testing.   
 
       56.  For example, Hall and Meyer tested a payment of $300,000 applied to a vendor named 
Crystal Cove.  As support for the payment, USF provided KPMG with a check in the amount of 
$1,059,263 from Commodity Management Systems (“CMS”), a purchasing agent.  Despite the 
absence of a remittance advice or any indication on CMS’s check as to the purpose of the monies 
or how these monies should be applied, USF applied these monies, in part, as payment on Crystal 
Cove’s account.   
 
       57.  Internal USF notations indicate that USF broke up and applied the CMS check to three 
different vendor receivable accounts. 
        
       58.  Hall and Meyer did not perform any additional steps to ensure that these checks had 
anything to do with the vendors to whose accounts they were applied, nor did they obtain any 
evidence demonstrating that the payments related to fiscal year 1999 activity.   
 
       59.  Hall’s and Meyer’s testing of USF’s subsequent cash receipts effectively constituted 
nothing more than obtaining company representations without obtaining any persuasive evidence 
indicating that USF properly applied these payments.  
        

                                              10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

       Examination of PA Contracts Containing Unearned Prepayments 
        
       60.  KPMG’s PA testing also involved recalculating PA income purportedly earned and 
recorded by USF for fiscal year 1999.   
 
       61.  Hall and Meyer selected individual PA income balances for 21 vendors and sought 
supporting documentation for the two key components of the balances necessary to perform a 
recalculation:  (1) the agreed-upon PA rates in effect during fiscal year 1999 and (2) the purchase 
volume made by USF from the respective vendor.   
 
       62.  KPMG’s working papers indicate that the supporting documentation obtained by Hall 
and Meyer for the PA rates was primarily executed PA contracts and/or vendor correspondence 
between USF and the respective vendor.   
 
       63.  Of the 21 balances selected, Hall and Meyer documented having reviewed PA 
contracts for the following five vendors during this testing: (1) Nabisco; (2) Fort 
James/Commercial; (3) Tyson Foods; (4) Smithfield; and (5) Rich Products.  Several of these 
contracts contained prepayment provisions, which USF had repeatedly represented to KPMG did 
not exist.  In particular, Hall and Meyer reviewed PA contracts with Nabisco, Rich Products, and 
Smithfield Foods that contain specific prepayment provisions requiring the vendors to make large 
up-front payments of PAs expected to be earned over the life of the contract – well into the 
millions of dollars.  
 
       64.  The Nabisco contract provided for revocable “signing bonuses” that were contingent 
upon USF meeting volume hurdles.   
 
       65.  The Rich Products contract called for advance payments for expected volume growth 
that were revocable if the contracted volume growth was not achieved.  
 
       66.  The Smithfield Foods contract contained a schedule of up-front payments that 
Smithfield was obligated to make in exchange for USF committing to purchase 200 million pounds 
of products over the five-year contract term.  The Smithfield contract also contained a clawback 
provision that required USF to refund any pro-rata portion of the prepayments to the extent that the 
200 million volume commitment was not achieved. 
 
       67.  Not only did Hall and Meyer review the prepayment provision in the Nabisco PA 
contract, but in connection with their cash receipts testing, Hall and Meyer reviewed the underlying 
wire remittance for a prepayment made under the contract.  Working paper D-31 has an explicit 
reference to the Nabisco prepayment with the notation, obscured by liquid white-out, “advance on 
USF baked good agreement.” 
 
       68.  Notwithstanding the clear evidence of prepayment provisions in the contracts they 
reviewed, Hall and Meyer documented that “no significant problems were noted” as a result of this 
testing. 
        

                                              11 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

       Improperly Designing PA Accounts Receivable Confirmations 
        
       69.  As part of its testing of USF’s PA receivable balances, KPMG sought third-party 
confirmation of 35 individual PA balances (including the 30 highest dollar value items) 
outstanding as of July 3, 1999.  KPMG’s confirmation letters to vendors contained requests to 
confirm that individual invoices had been received by the vendor and that the amounts of these 
invoices had been fully earned in USF’s fiscal year 1999.   
 
       70.  Specifically, the confirmation letters stated: “The invoice amount(s) is(are) due to U.S. 
Foodservice as of July 3, 1999 for rebates and/or promotional income earned on products 
purchased and delivered to U.S. Foodservice prior to July 3, 1999.” 
        
       71.  Hall and Meyer approved sending certain confirmations to third-party purchasing 
agents/brokers – even when those agents/brokers were not the recipients of the selected invoices.  
  
       72.  In many cases, USF and USF’s vendors retained third-party brokers to assist them in 
negotiating product pricing with vendors, facilitating product ordering by USF and also performing 
the invoicing of USF for product purchases.  These brokers were typically not involved in 
negotiating the PA contracts between USF and the vendors, nor did they typically track PA 
amounts earned by or owed to USF.  Hence, PAs were outside of the brokers’ purview as PA 
activity was conducted directly between USF and its vendors. 
        
       73.  Of those 35 separate confirmation requests, 16 – almost half – went to three individual 
brokers who were retained and compensated by various vendors.  Two vendors received four 
confirmations each, while the third received six, including one for Pillsbury Bakeries.  The 
working paper lead sheet, which was initialed by both Hall and Meyer, shows which confirmations 
were signed by an entity other than the addressee (i.e., the party named on the invoice to be tested).   
        
       74.  Hall and Meyer did not design or perform any substantive procedures to verify that 
vendor sales brokers were authorized to sign on behalf of vendors.   
 
       75.  The sales brokers were not employees of USF’s vendors and, therefore, may not have 
been knowledgeable about the information being confirmed and/or authorized to sign on behalf of 
vendors.   
 
       76.  Hall and Meyer accepted USF’s management’s suggestion that KPMG confirm 
invoices with brokers without assessing the objectivity or knowledge of those third-party brokers 
to determine whether their responses would serve as meaningful and competent audit evidence.  
Hall and Meyer did not independently determine to whom the invoices were addressed or who paid 
them.   
 
       77.  Hall and Meyer did not look at the actual invoices to ascertain whether the audit 
process was confirming the information with the party who received and paid the invoices.  In fact, 
all of the underlying invoices were addressed to the vendors’ finance or accounts payable 
department and not to sales personnel or third-party brokers. 

                                              12 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

        
       78.  Instead of analyzing whether confirms with these brokers satisfied the requirements of 
GAAS, Hall and Meyer relied upon management’s representations from the prior year’s audit that 
the signers of the confirmations were “knowledgeable.”  The reasons provided by USF 
management were that these brokers were deemed to be “reputable representatives of the related 
vendors” and that USF’s relationship with them is at “arms-length”.  USF management also 
requested that “KPMG ‘tactfully’ discuss [its] concerns and findings with the Audit Committee of 
the Board of Directors.”   
 
       79.  Despite this request by USF management, Hall and Meyer did not raise this concern to 
a higher level and instead sent audit confirmations to these brokers without further inquiry.   
 
       80.  Hall and Meyer identified the red flag and the potential adverse impact on their 
confirmation process.  However, they relied solely on USF’s representations to satisfy their 
concerns. 
        
       Failures Surrounding Second Quarter 2000 Review of Supply Contract 
        
       81.  In approximately August 1998, USF sold various manufacturing assets to United 
Signature Food (“Signature”) that USF had obtained from a prior acquisition.  USF received 
consideration of approximately $101 million (cash of $85 million and a note of $16 million) from 
Signature in exchange for the assets.  Since the assets had a book value of approximately $19 
million, USF had a significant gain on the sale of the assets.   
 
       82.  In connection with the sale, USF also entered into a long-term supply agreement with 
Signature that required USF to meet minimum, yet aggressive, purchase obligations each month.  
The agreement provided that substantial penalties would be incurred if these thresholds were not 
achieved.  The contract also provided that USF could only terminate the agreement by paying 
significant fees to Signature. 
        
       83.  During its audit for the year ended July 3, 1999, Hall and Meyer prepared an 
exhaustive summary of the key terms of the supply agreement, including those set forth above.  
Hall and Meyer also expressed their concurrence with USF’s deferral of the entire gain arising 
from the asset sale.   
 
       84.  Hall and Meyer stated in the summary memo that “[t]o the extent that payments are 
made in any year for failure to meet the minimum purchase targets they will be recorded as 
incurred.”  However, Hall and Meyer were aware of facts that clearly indicated that USF was not 
properly accounting for penalties that it had paid and would likely owe in the future. 
        
       85.  As part of KPMG’s quarterly review for USF’s fiscal second quarter ended January 1, 
2000, Hall and Meyer sought to reconcile the decrease in the balance of the deferred gain since 
July 3, 1999.  Of the $23 million decrease during this six-month period, $15 million related to 
“cash payments to United Signature Foods” and that “[the] Company did not recognize income 
during the 2nd
              Qtr because of their downturn in purchasing from United Signature.”   

                                               13 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

 
       86.  Hall and Meyer documented that USF’s payments to Signature were due to USF “not 
meeting purchasing requirements” as required under the contract.  Hall and Meyer were fully 
aware that USF was not meeting its purchase obligations under the supply agreement and that USF 
was contractually obligated to pay penalties to Signature if this occurred.   
        
       87.  The $15 million in payments represented penalty payments.  Rather than expensing the 
penalty payments through the income statement, USF improperly accounted for the penalty 
payments as reductions of the deferred gain on the sale.  Although Hall and Meyer were aware of 
this accounting treatment, they did not assess whether it comported with GAAP.   
 
       88.  USF’s recording of these payments as offsets to the deferred gain violated GAAP, as 
basic accrual-basis accounting requires that expenses are recorded to the income statement as they 
are incurred.  “Expenses represent actual or expected cash outflows (or the equivalent) that have 
occurred or will eventuate as a result of the entity's ongoing major or central operations.” FASB 
Concepts Statement No. 6 “Elements of Financial Statements (A Replacement of FASB Concepts 
Statement No. 3 –Incorporating an Amendment of FASB Concepts Statement No. 2),” par. 81.  
        
       89.  Additionally, accounting standards governing sale-leaseback accounting for operating 
leases, to which USF analogized with respect to its recognition of the deferred gain, require that a 
seller-lessee recognize rent payments made to a buyer-lessor as expenses.  Therefore by analogy, 
USF (as the seller-lessee) was required to recognize penalty payments made to Signature (as the 
buyer-lessor) as expenses. 
        
       90.  By not requiring USF to expense these payments, Hall and Meyer not only permitted 
non-GAAP accounting, but they also failed to employ their own previously prescribed treatment in 
the event that such payments were made.  In the summary memo prepared in conjunction with the 
1999 audit, Hall and Meyer stated that if penalties arose they would be recorded as incurred.  This 
statement indicates that USF intended to conform to GAAP by expensing penalty payments 
through the income statement when incurred.  As USF’s purchases from Signature fell far below 
the minimum contractual requirements beginning in approximately July 1999, USF incurred and 
paid significant monthly penalties.   
 
       91.  USF should have reflected these penalties as expenses on its monthly income 
statements and not offset them against a balance sheet liability account.  Of the $15 million of 
penalty payments referred to in KPMG’s working papers, approximately $11 million was incurred 
in the second quarter of USF’s fiscal year 2000.   
        
       92.  By improperly recording the $11 million of penalty payments as a reduction of the 
deferred gain recorded from the assets sale, USF overstated its pre-tax earnings by approximately 
25% as reported in USF’s Form 10-Q and Form 10-Q/A for the second quarter of fiscal year 2000.   
 
       93.  Improperly accounting for the entire $15 million of penalty payments resulted in USF 
overstating its reported pre-tax earnings by approximately 18% for the six months ended January 1, 
2000. 

                                              14 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

        
       94.  Despite being aware of the penalties and overall downward trend in USF’s purchasing 
levels from Signature, Hall and Meyer also did not perform sufficient procedures to address the 
likelihood of USF continuing to incur shortfall penalties beyond January 1, 2000 under this 
obviously unfavorable contract.  GAAP, specifically “Statement of Financial Accounting 
Standards No. 5: Accounting for Contingencies” (“SFAS 5”), requires the accrual of a contingent 
liability when a loss is probable (the future event is likely to occur) and estimable and also requires 
disclosure if the loss is at least reasonably possible.   
 
       95.  Hall and Meyer had every indication that USF would continue to incur penalties 
beyond the second quarter given that:  (1) USF had incurred monthly penalties during the first two 
quarters and (2) USF’s purchases continued to fall further and further short of the contracted levels.   
 
       96.  In fact, USF did continue to incur monthly penalties of approximately $2 million from 
January 2000 until the agreement was ultimately terminated in early 2001.   
        
       97.  Given the numerous red flags that were known by Hall and Meyer during their second 
quarter review, they should have, at a minimum, required USF management to assess its continued 
exposure under this contract and determine whether a contingent liability and/or financial 
statement disclosure was necessary.   
 
E. VIOLATIONS 
 
              As a result of the conduct described above, Hall and Meyer engaged in improper 
professional conduct as defined in Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) in that their conduct (A) constituted 
intentional or knowing conduct, including reckless conduct, that resulted in violation of applicable 
professional standards, or in the alternative, (B) constituted negligent conduct, consisting of (1) a 
single instance of highly unreasonable conduct that resulted in a violation of applicable 
professional standards in circumstances in which Hall and Meyer knew, or should have known, 
that heightened scrutiny was warranted, or (2) repeated instances of unreasonable conduct by Hall 
and Meyer, each resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of 
competence to practice before the Commission. 
   
                                               III. 
 
       In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement and the Office of the Chief 
Accountant, the Commission deems it appropriate that public administrative proceedings be 
instituted to determine:  
 
              A.         Whether the allegations set forth in Section II are true and, in connection therewith, 
to afford Respondents an opportunity to establish any defenses to such allegations; and  
 
       B.          Whether Respondents should be censured by the Commission or temporarily or 
permanently denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission. 
        

                                               15 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

                                               IV. 
 
              IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the questions 
set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened at a time and place to be fixed, and before an 
Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.110. 
 
              IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents shall file an answer to the allegations 
contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as provided by Rule 220 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220. 
 
       If Respondents fail to file the directed answer, or fail to appear at a hearing after being duly 
notified, Respondents may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be determined against 
them upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be deemed to be true as 
provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. 
§§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f) and 201.310. 
        
              This Order shall be served upon Respondents in accordance with the provisions of Rule 
141 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17. C.F.R. § 201.141. 
 
              IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an initial 
decision no later than 300 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to Rule 360(a)(2) of 
the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
       In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission 
engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually related 
proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter, except as 
witness or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice. Since this proceeding is not “rule 
making” within the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it is not deemed 
subject to the provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any final Commission action. 
 
        
              By the Commission. 
 
                                                      
                                                                   Nancy M. Morris 
                                                                   Secretary 
  

                                                16 
