---------------------Page 1---------------------

                               UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                           Before the 

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  58273 / July 31, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2855 / July 31, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13111 

In the Matter of                               ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                               ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
       JAMES B. KINNEY, CMA                    PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                               COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
       Respondent.                             MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                               REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 

                                             I. 

       The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) deems it appropriate and in 
the public interest that public admi nistrative proceedings be, and hereby are, i nstituted against 
James B. Kinney (the “Respondent” or “Kinney”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1 

                                             II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.2. below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 
1 
       Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 

       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by order, . . . 
suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accou ntant . . . wh o has  been by name . . .  permanently 
enjoined by any court of c ompetent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an act ion brought by the 
Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of 
the rules and regulations thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions (the “Order”), as set forth below. 

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 

              1.      Kinney, age  53, is and    has been a certi  fied  management ac countant 
(“CMA”) licensed to practice in Canada.  From August 2002 through April 2004 he was the Vice 
President of Finance for the Wireless business unit of  Nortel Networks Corporation (“Nortel”), a 
Canadian telecommunications equipment manufacturer.    Nortel’s common stock is and at all relevant 
times was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”)   and trades publicly on the New York and Toronto Stock  Exchanges 
under the symbol “NT.” 

              2.      On May 2, 2008, a final judgment was entered against Kinney, permanently 
enjoining him from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities 
Act”), Exchange Act Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5), and Exchange Act Rules 10b-5 and 13b2-1, and 
from aiding and abetting f  uture violations of  Exchange Act Sections  13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 
13(b)(2)(B) and Exchange Act Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 in the civil action entitled United 
States Securities and Exchange Commission v. Frank A. Dunn, et  al., Civil Action Number 07 -
CV-8851 (LAP), in the United States District C    ourt for the Southern Di strict of Ne w York . 
Kinney was also order  ed to pay $52,000 i    n di sgorgement of ill-gotten gains, $16,481 i   n 
prejudgment interest, and a $75,000 civil money penalty. 

              3.      The Commission’s complaint  alleged that, from the second half of 2002 
through January 2003, Kinney determined that his business unit held tens of millions of dollars in 
excess reserves, and that he did not release those excess reserves as required under U.S. Generally 
Accepted Accounting Principles  (“GAAP”), but instead used th  em for earnings  mana gement 
purposes.  The complaint also alleged that, in early January 2003, during the 2002 year-end closing 
process, Kinney and other finance executives improperly established additional excess reserves in 
order to lower Nortel’ s consolidat ed earnings  and bring it in line with internal and m  arket 
expectations.  As alleged, his efforts, in conjunction with those of other finance executives, helped 
erase Nortel’s pro forma profit for the fourth quarter of 2002 and caused it to report a loss instead. 
The complaint also alleged that, in the first and second quarters of 2003, Kinney and other finance 
executives improperly released hundreds of m illions of dollars in excess reserves as part of a 
company-wide effort t o inflate consolidated   earnings and pay bonuse  s.   According to the 
complaint, these efforts turned Nort el’s first  quarter 2003 loss into a re ported profit under U.S. 
GAAP, largely erased Nortel’s second quarter loss and generated a pro forma profit in the second 
quarter. 

                                              -2
-
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Kinney’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     Kinney is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 

       B.     After 5 years from the date of the Order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention:  Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or

        2.            an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 

                      (a)    Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)    Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      (d)    Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 

                                              -3
-
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant provided that he is in 
possession of an accounting license in good standing and he has resolved any disciplinary 
issues with any applicable licensing authority.  However, if the resolution of any 
disciplinary action by a licensing authority is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

 By       the Commission. 

       F                                             lorence E. Harmon
       A                                              cting Secretary 

                                               -4
-
