---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  

                                        Before the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 57008 / December 20, 2007 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No.  2759 / December 20, 2007 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-11171 

                          :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                          :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE
In the Matter of 
                          :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                          :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Gregory B. Tayler, CA 
                          :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                          :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 

       On July 7, 2003, Gregory B. Tayler ("Tayler") was suspended from appearing or 
practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public administrative 
proceedings instituted by the Commission against Tayler pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                 Tayler consented to the entry of the order without admitting or 
denying the findings therein but for the Commission’s finding that a Final Judgment and 
Permanent Injunction and Other Equitable Relief had been previously entered against him.  This 
order is issued in response to Tayler’s application for reinstatement to appear and practice before 
the Commission as an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial 
statements required to be filed with the Commission. 

        The Commission’s complaint alleged that Tayler, along with other senior executives of 
Xerox Corporation (“Xerox”), played a significant role in misleading investors about Xerox’s 
earnings in order to polish the company’s reputation on Wall Street and to boost its stock price.  
Through their conduct, Tayler and others were responsible for accelerating the recognition of 
equipment revenues by approximately $3 billion and increasing pre-tax earnings by 
approximately $1.4 billion in Xerox’s 1997-2000 financial results.  These overstatements were 
achieved through the use of undisclosed manipulative accounting devices employed at the end of 
each financial reporting period during the relevant time. 

1 
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 1812 dated July 7, 2003.  Tayler was permitted, pursuant 
to the order, to apply for reinstatement after three years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Tayler 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Tayler is not, at this time, seeking to appear 
or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume 
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be 
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Tayler’s 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 

       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                            This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 

       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Tayler, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the July 7, 2003 order suspending 
him from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no information 
has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, professional 
conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis for adverse 
action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, and that 
Tayler, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of any 
company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in his 
practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Gregory B. Tayler, C.A. is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 

       By the Commission. 

                                             Nancy M. Morris 
                                             Secretary 

2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 

“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 

                                                2

