---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                          Before the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  54665 / October 30, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2500 / October 30, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12463 
 
In the Matter of                        ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
                                        PROCEEDINGS, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
          B.N. BAHADUR,                 IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
                                        PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF THE 
Respondent.                             SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
                     
 
                                               I. 

       The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), against B.N. Bahadur (“Bahadur” or the 
“Respondent”). 

                                              II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting 
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order 
Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.1 
                                                                                            TPF FPT  

                                                 
       1 
       TP PT In a separate civil action filed simultaneously with this proceeding, Bahadur has separately consented to 
the entry of a judgment by the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan pursuant to Section 21(d) of        
the Exchange Act ordering him to disgorge $350,000, pay prejudgment interest of $139,257 on the disgorgement                                                       
amount and pay a civil penalty of $80,000.   SEC v. Delphi Corporation, et al., Civil Action No. 2:06-cv-14891 (AC)                                                        
(E.D. Mich. Oct. 30, 2006).  

        
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               III. 


       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer,                             2 
                                                          TPPTthe Commission finds that:TPF FPT  

       A.      Respondent and Delphi Corporation 

               1.      Respondent 

       Bahadur, 61, is a resident of West Bloomfield, Michigan.  At all relevant times, he was 
the sole owner and principal of a private management consulting company based in Southfield, 
Michigan (the “Consulting Company”). 

               2.      Delphi Corporation 

       Delphi Corporation (“Delphi”) is an auto parts supplier headquartered in Troy, Michigan. 
At all relevant times, Delphi’s common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to 
Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and was listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) 
under the symbol “DPH.”  On October 8, 2005, Delphi filed for bankruptcy in the Southern 
District of New York.  On November 11, 2005, Delphi was delisted from the NYSE.  Delphi’s 
common stock is now registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange 
Act and trades in the over the counter market and is quoted in the pink sheets under the symbol 
“DPHIQ.” 

       B.      Facts 

               1.      Introduction  

       In December 2000, Delphi entered into two separate inventory schemes involving 
transactions with third parties.  In one of those transactions, Delphi purported to sell $70 million 
worth of inventory to the Consulting Company at the end of December 2000, while 
simultaneously promising Bahadur that Delphi would repurchase the inventory from the 
Consulting Company in early 2001.  In return for Bahadur’s participation, he negotiated for the 
Consulting Company to receive a $350,000 fee.  Delphi accounted for the transaction as a sale of 
inventory, but should have accounted for it as a financing. 

               2.      Bahadur assists Delphi by entering into oral repurchase agreement. 

       In December 2000, a Delphi executive (“Executive X”) asked Bahadur if, as an 
accommodation, his Consulting Company would buy automotive battery and generator core 
inventory from Delphi for $70 million and resell it back to Delphi within 90 days, again, for 
$70 million.  Executive X agreed that the Consulting Company would earn a 0.5% fee in 
connection with the transaction.  When Bahadur was unable to secure financing for the 

                                                 
       2 
       TPPT  The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any    
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  

                                                2 

                                                 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

transaction, Executive X suggested the parties close the transaction before the end of 2000, but 
seek to finalize the financing early in January. 

       Although the Consulting Company had been engaged by Delphi on multiple occasions to 
provide consulting services, it had never purchased inventory from an automotive manufacturer 
or supply company and had no need or use for automotive batteries or generator cores.  
Nevertheless, after consulting outside counsel and participating in telephone conference calls 
with counsel and Executive X, Bahadur agreed to enter into the transaction with Delphi.  
Bahadur’s counsel, who drafted the contract, proposed to Executive X and recommended to 
Bahadur that Delphi’s repurchase obligation be put in writing.  Executive X rejected that 
proposal, however, and Bahadur agreed to go forward with the transaction without a written 
repurchase agreement. 

       The final agreement was executed in December 2000 and, pursuant to Delphi’s specific 
request, made no mention of Delphi’s agreement to repurchase of the inventory or of any fee the 
Consulting Company would earn in connection with the transaction.  However, Executive X had 
repeatedly assured Bahadur and his counsel that Delphi would repurchase the inventory and that 
the Consulting Company would earn a fee.   

              3.	      Delphi self-finances Bahadur’s inventory purchase by making 
                      improper use of supplier financing program. 

       In January 2001, while Bahadur was working on securing financing, Executive X 
suggested that Delphi finance the transaction through a third party entity’s supplier financing 
program.  In the normal course, Delphi enrolled its suppliers in the third party supplier financing 
program so that suppliers could receive early, but reduced, payment on invoices issued for 
material purchased by Delphi.  Under the program, as soon as the supplier’s invoice was 
received and approved by Delphi, the third party supplier financer would pay the supplier at a 
discount.  Delphi would then pay the third party supplier financer the full amount of the invoice 
on its actual due date. 

       In connection with the batteries and cores transaction, however, Delphi used the third 
party supplier finance program for a different and improper purpose.  Delphi first arranged with 
Bahadur for the Consulting Company to be enrolled in the supplier financer program.  Delphi 
then arranged with Bahadur to have the Consulting Company issue an invoice to Delphi for 
$70,840,214.28.  This amount was calculated by Delphi so that, after the third party supplier 
financer took its fee, the Consulting Company would receive the net proceeds of $70,350,000.  
Upon receipt of the invoice, Delphi approved it and submitted it to the third party supplier 
financer.  The Consulting Company received the $70,350,000 on or about January 12, 2001 and 
immediately paid $70 million to Delphi as payment for its purchase of the inventory.  The 
Consulting Company retained $350,000 as its fee.  A month later, Delphi paid $70,840,214.28 to 
the third party supplier financer. 

       When the transaction was complete, Delphi had paid the Consulting Company $350,000 
and had paid the third party supplier financer $538,385.63 to move inventory off of Delphi’s 
books for approximately two weeks.  No inventory ever left Delphi’s premises. 

                                               3 

                                                 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

              4.      Bahadur’s knowledge 

       Bahadur knew that by representing the transaction as a “purchase,” without any mention 
of the repurchase agreement or the Consulting Company’s fee, the inventory purchase agreement 
he signed in December 2000 did not accurately represent all of the terms of the transaction, 
including the oral agreement by Executive X.  He further knew that under the actual terms of his 
arrangement with Delphi, the Consulting Company was not in fact purchasing inventory from  
Delphi, but instead was agreeing to provide Delphi with short-term financing.  Moreover, by 
January 2001, he knew that as a result of Delphi’s self-financing program, the only cash Delphi 
received in connection with the transaction came not from the Consulting Company, but from  
Delphi itself, via the third party supplier financer.   

              5.      Delphi’s fraudulent accounting 

       Delphi fraudulently accounted for the December 2000 transaction with the Consulting 
Company as a sale.  As the result of its fraudulent accounting, on its Form 10-K for the period 
ended December 31, 2000, Delphi improperly overstated its earnings per share by approximately 
3 cents or 9% for the fourth quarter of 2000. 

       C.      Conclusion 

       As a result of the conduct described above, Bahadur was a cause of Delphi’s violations of 
Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, which prohibit 
fraudulent conduct in connection with the purchase or sale of securities. 

       Also as a result of the conduct described above, Bahadur was a cause of Delphi’s 
violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-1 promulgated 
thereunder, which require reporting companies to file accurate annual reports with the 
Commission. 

       Lastly, as a result of the conduct described above, Bahadur was a cause of Delphi’s 
violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to 
make and keep books, records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly 
reflect their transactions and dispositions of their assets.  

                                               4 

                                                 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                             IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Bahadur’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that Respondent Bahadur cease and desist from  
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange 
Act and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder and cease and desist from causing any violations 
and any future violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-
20 and 13a-1 promulgated thereunder.  

       By the Commission. 

 
 
 
                                           Nancy M. Morris 
                                           Secretary 

                                              5 

                                                
