---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       BEFORE THE 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 55551 / March 28, 2007 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2585 / March 28, 2007 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12602 
 
In the Matter of                       ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                       PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF 
EDWARD S. PLINER, CPA,                 THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                       MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
Respondent.                            REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
 
                                              I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in 
the public interest that public administrative  proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
Edward S. Pliner (“Pliner” or “Respondent”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1
                                              II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, the Respondent has submitted an 
Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for 
the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, 
Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant 
to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below. 
 

                                                 
1
  Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
                 The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by order, . . . 
suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has been by name . . . permanently 
enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the 
Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of 
the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:2
 
       1.     Pliner, age 49, has been a Certified Public Accountant licensed in Massachusetts 
at all relevant times.  During 1997 through February 2000, Pliner served as the lead engagement 
partner on the audits of the financial statements for Raytheon Company (“Raytheon” or the 
“company”).  From approximately April 2000 until December 2002, Pliner served as Raytheon’s 
Controller and then became the company’s CFO. 

       2.     Raytheon is a Delaware corporation, headquartered in Waltham, Massachusetts.  
The company is an industry leader in defense, government electronics, space technology, and 
business and special mission aircraft.  Between 1997 and 2001, Raytheon reported between $13 
billion and $20 billion in net sales revenue annually and employed between 75,000 to 120,000 
individuals.  During this time period and continuing through today, Raytheon’s securities have 
been registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 and are listed on the New York, Chicago, and Pacific Exchanges. 

       3.     On March 15, 2007, the Commission filed a complaint against Respondent in 
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Edward S. Pliner, Civil Action No. 07-cv-00495 (GK), 
in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia.  Respondent neither admits nor 
denies the allegations in that complaint.  On March 26, 2007, a final judgment was entered by 
consent against Pliner, permanently enjoining him from committing violations of Sections 
17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act of 1933 and from aiding and abetting violations of Sections 
13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-13, and 
13b2-1 promulgated thereunder.  The final judgment ordered Pliner to pay $325,000 in 
disgorgement of certain past bonus amounts, $90,042 in prejudgment interest thereon, and a 
$150,000 civil money penalty.   

       4.     The Commission’s complaint alleges among other things that, between 1997 and 
2001, Raytheon and certain members of its senior management made false and misleading 
disclosures and used improper accounting practices that operated as a fraud by masking the 
declining results and deteriorating business of Raytheon Aircraft Company (“RAC”) and 
inaccurately reporting the company’s operating results on both a segmented and consolidated 
basis.  According to the SEC’s complaint, certain of these disclosures and accounting practices 
were undertaken by or with the knowledge of Pliner and others. 

       5.     The Commission’s complaint also alleges that, as Raytheon’s lead auditor, Pliner 
was aware of certain bill-and-hold and commuter aircraft accounting practices at RAC, which he 
knew or should have known were improper.  Yet, he signed unqualified audit opinions for the 
1997 and 1998 audits, which represented that the company’s financial statements “present fairly, 
in all material respect, the financial position of Raytheon Company and Subsidiaries 

                                                 
2
  The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer and are not binding on any other person or entity in 
this or any other proceeding.  

                                               2
---------------------Page 3---------------------

Consolidated… and the results of their operations…in conformity with generally accepted 
accounting principles.”   

       6.      The Commission’s complaint further alleges that, as Raytheon’s Controller, Pliner 
continued to be aware of and involved in certain on- and off-balance sheet commuter accounting, 
which he knew or should have known did not accurately reflect the negative impact of declining 
commuter values in Raytheon’s financial statements.  According to the Commission’s complaint, 
Pliner further did not make or ensure the timely, accurate, and full disclosure of material trends 
and uncertainties related to Raytheon’s commuter aircraft business in the company’s SEC filings 
during 2000 and 2001, and he also did not ensure that the company maintained an adequate 
system of internal accounting controls related to these assets. 

       7.      According to the Commission’s complaint, RAC’s operating results would have 
been reduced by at least $67 million (41 percent) at year-end 2000 had Pliner and others in 
senior Raytheon and RAC management timely and appropriately recognized losses inherent in a 
planned “soft landing” of the commuter aircraft line.  According to the Commission’s complaint, 
at this time, these and other senior executives further expected commuter losses of $240 million 
given the cash sales prices that had been approved in the “soft landing,” and a charge of $67 
million to $240 million would have reduced Raytheon’s 2000 profit before taxes by at least 8 to 
27 percent.   

       8.      The Commission’s complaint alleges that Pliner and others caused Raytheon to 
improperly take this charge in the third quarter of 2001, when the company wrote down its on-
balance sheet commuter assets and increased reserves for its off-balance sheet commuter 
receivables by a total of $693 million after the terrorist attacks of September 11th.  According to 
the Commission’s complaint, given the charge that the company should have taken at year-end 
2000, Raytheon’s third quarter 2001 commuter loss provision was materially overstated by at 
least 10 to 53 percent. 

                                               IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest 
to impose the sanctions agreed to in the Respondent’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
              A.         Pliner is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.  
 
              B.          After three (3) years from the date of this Order, Pliner may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
 
                            1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission. 
Such an application must satisfy the Commission that Pliner’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public 

                                                3
---------------------Page 4---------------------

company for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices 
before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
  2. an independent accountant.  Su                       ch an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
         
                                    (a)         Pliner, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with 
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Pliner, or the registered                            public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any 
criticisms of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system 
that would indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; and  
 
                         (c)         Pliner has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other 
than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
   (d) Pliner acknowledges his res                              ponsibility, as long as he appears or 
practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all requirements 
of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to 
registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
 
              C.          The Commission will consider an application by Pliner to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission as an accountant provided that his accountant status is 
current and he has resolved any disciplinary issues with the applicable board of accountancy.  
However, if the resolution of any disciplinary action by a board of accountancy is dependent 
on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other 
merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters 
referenced above, any other matters relating to Pliner’s character, integrity, professional 
conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 
              By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
                     Secretary 

                                                     4
