---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  

                                             Before the 

                        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No.  51647 / May 2, 2005 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No.  2241 / May 2, 2005 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-8093 

                              : 
                             : 
In the Matter of                ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                             : 
                                REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
                             : 
Robert R. Berti, CPA            BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                             : 
                             : 
                             
        

       On July 13, 1993, Robert R. Berti ("Berti") was suspended from appearing or practicing 
as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public administrative proceedings 
instituted by the Commission against Berti pursuant to then Rule 2(e) of the Commission's Rules 
of Practice.  This order is issued in response to Berti’s application for reinstatement to practice 
before the Commission as an independent accountant.     1 
                                                          

         Berti was found to have engaged in improper professional conduct with respect to the 
annual audit of Convenient Food Mart, Inc.’s (“Convenient”) 1987 consolidated financial 
statements.  The Commission’s order found that Berti accepted $2,256,000 in unsubstantiated 
entries without adequate evidential support.  After the audit staff was unable to find justification 
for these entries, Berti accepted management’s representation that documentation for the entries 
                                                 
1 
 See  Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 465 dated July 13, 1993.  Berti was permitted, pursuant to              
the order, to apply for reinstatement as an independent accountant after five years upon making certain showings.   
His suspension from practice as a preparer or reviewer, or  a person responsible for the preparation or review, of   
financial statements required to be filed with the Commis                sion expired automatically five years after the date of the  
order.  
 
Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3)  
of this section may be made at any time, and the applic ant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated                         
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i).                        
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

existed but had been misplaced.  Some of these unsubstantiated entries were reversed when 
Convenient restated its 1987 consolidated financial statements on February 1, 1989.  The 
Commission’s order also found that Berti accepted management’s representations of material 
amounts by which intercompany accounts were out of balance.  He then improperly shifted 
reserves to make up for the out of balance accounts.  This improper accounting had the effect of 
materially overstating income. 
 
       Berti has met all of the conditions set forth in his suspension order and, in his capacity as 
an independent accountant, has stated that he will comply with all requirements of the  
Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, including, but not limited to 
all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
control standards. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”  This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Berti, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the July 13, 1993 order suspending 
him from practice before the Commission as an accountant, that no information has come to the 
attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, professional conduct or 
qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis for adverse action against 
him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, and that Berti has shown 
good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Robert R. Berti, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                             
                                             
                                                            
                                                            
                                                           Jonathan G. Katz 
                                                           Secretary 
