---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                              STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                        the 

                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 51442 / March 29, 2005 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2220 / March 29, 2005 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-11875 
                                                
                                                
In the Matter of                               ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC  
                                               ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
      MARK M. IWAN, CPA                        PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                               COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
Respondent.                                    MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                               REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
 
 
 
  
                                            I.  
                                                                              
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Mark M. Iwan, (“Respondent” or 
“Iwan”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.1 
                                                                        
                                              
                                           II.  
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
      The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or  
      practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or 
      improper professional conduct. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and 
Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds2
                                                                               that:  
 
A.      RESPONDENT  
 
       Mark M. Iwan, 47, of Denver, Colorado, was the Global Managing Partner  
at Arthur Andersen (“Andersen”) LLP, the outside auditor for Qwest Communications 
International Inc. (“Qwest”), from 1999 to 2002.  Iwan worked for Andersen between May 1979 
and December 2002.  As Global Managing Partner, Iwan supervised the services Andersen 
performed for Qwest.  Iwan was one of several Andersen partners providing auditing and 
accounting services to Qwest, and was the audit engagement partner from June 1999 through and 
including the filing of Qwest’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2000, and from  
March 2001 to May 2002.  Andersen issued audit reports, each signed by Iwan, with unqualified 
opinions on Qwest’s 1999, 2000, and 2001 financial statements and reviewed Qwest’s quarterly 
financial statements for the same period.  Iwan is a certified public accountant in Colorado, but 
his license expired in May 2004. 
 
B.     OTHER ENTITY 

       Qwest is a Delaware corporation with its principal place of  business in Denver, Colorado.  
Qwest’s common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and trades on the New York Stock Exchange.  Qwest files 
annual, quarterly, and current reports with the Commission on Forms 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K,  
respectively, and its fiscal year end is December 31.  Qwest’s financial statements were audited by 
Andersen for Qwest’s fiscal years ended December 31, 1999, 2000, and 2001.  

C. FACTS               
 
       1.     From at least the second quarter ended June 30, 1999, and continuing through the  
first quarter ended March 30, 2002, Qwest emphasized its projected revenues and earnings growth  
in Commission filings and in public statements, and issued aggressive growth and revenue targets 
to the investment community.  In turn, Qwest senior executives placed extraordinary pressure 
throughout the company to meet or exceed the publicly announced revenue targets.  Qwest could 
not, however, meet its targets through recurring revenue-generating transactions.  The lack of 
recurring revenue created a gap between Qwest’s publicly stated revenue targets and actual 
revenue.   

                                                 
2
  The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding 
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
 
                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       2.     To make up for the shortfall between Qwest’s actual revenue and its projected 
revenue targets, Qwest relied on one-time sales of portions of its network in the form of IRUs.3 
                                                                                              
Qwest accounted for IRUs as sales-type leases, and recognized revenue immediately upon 
purported delivery and acceptance of the capacity.  Qwest also sold capital equipment with 
immediate revenue recognition.  Qwest failed adequately to make required disclosures under 
generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) in its 1999 and 2000 Forms 10-K and 10-Qs 
regarding one-time IRU and equipment sale transactions.  Specifically, in Qwest’s 1999 and 2000 
Forms 10-K, Qwest failed to disclose its revenue recognition policies for IRUs and equipment 
sales; the dollar amount of IRUs and equipment sales; the amount of IRU inventory available for 
sale; its nonmonetary exchange accounting for transactions where Qwest sold IRUs and purchased 
equal amounts of IRUs at the same time from the same customer (“IRU swaps”); and its capital 
lease treatment for IRUs.   

       3.     Generally accepted auditing standards (“GAAS”) provide that if a company omits 
from its financial statements information that is required under GAAP, the auditor should express a 
qualified or adverse audit opinion and should provide the information in the auditors’ report.  
Although Iwan required Qwest to increase disclosures and recommended still additional 
disclosures concerning IRUs, he unreasonably failed to ensure that Qwest’s management included 
all required disclosures under GAAP concerning Qwest’s IRU and capital equipment sales in 
Qwest’s 1999 and 2000 financial statements.4
                                              Iwan, therefore, failed to conduct his audit of Qwest 
in accordance with GAAS when he signed the audit reports for inclusion in the 1999 and 2000 
Forms 10-K.  

       4.     In addition, Qwest’s IRU revenue recognition policy as applied by it failed to meet  
several criteria under GAAP.  Among other things, Qwest’s immediate revenue recognition was 
fundamentally flawed because Qwest gave IRU customers the right to return the assets purchased 
in exchange for different assets (“porting”), and Qwest never established that title could transfer 
and did not transfer the usual risks and rewards of ownership to the buyer.   

       5.     Iwan relied unreasonably on management’s false representations that certain 
revenue recognition criteria for immediate revenue recognition on IRUs were met.  For example, 
Andersen allowed revenue recognition despite mounting evidence that Qwest’s IRU earnings 
process was not complete because Qwest allowed customers to port capacity.  Iwan learned in mid-
2001, that Qwest’s porting of capacity had risen to approximately ten percent of capacity sold.  
Upon learning this, Iwan required Qwest to stop porting.  Iwan, however, failed to evaluate 
whether Qwest’s prior revenue recognition was in conformity with GAAP because he relied 
unreasonably on management’s false representations that Qwest had made no commitments to 
allow its customers to port capacity, that it was never Qwest’s intention to allow customers to port 
capacity, and that Qwest would not honor any future request to port capacity. 
                                                 
3
  An IRU is an irrevocable right to use a specific amount of fiber optic cable or fiber capacity for 
a specified time period.  
4
 Certain of the required disclosures appeared in the financial statements in the Annual Report 
which included an audit report signed by Iwan, but not in the Form 10-K filed by Qwest. 

                                               3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       6.     Additionally, Iwan was aware of significant uncertainty regarding Qwest’s ability 
to transfer title on IRUs.  Qwest’s management and legal counsel continually represented to 
Andersen that title transferred on IRUs.  Iwan, however, failed adequately to consider evidence to 
the contrary.  Iwan knew by early 2000 that “[p]rior to EITF 00-11,” Qwest senior tax personnel 
believed there were “significant uncertainties as to whether title transfer would occur,” and thus 
Qwest would treat IRUs as operating leases for tax purposes.  Andersen rejected this tax treatment 
and continued to rely on senior management representations that title would be transferred.  Iwan 
failed to reconcile Qwest’s position on title transfer for IRUs for income tax reporting purposes 
with its contrary position for accounting purposes.  In 2001, Iwan required Qwest to obtain an 
outside legal opinion that Qwest had the ability to transfer title to the IRUs it sold over the past 
three years.  Qwest provided to Iwan an abridged summary of the legal opinion which contained 
significant assumptions, qualifications, ambiguities, and limitations that were critical to evaluating 
whether Qwest met the ownership transfer requirements.  Notwithstanding the significant 
uncertainty that continued to surround Qwest’s ability to transfer title on IRU sales transactions, 
Iwan failed to consider adequately evidence to the contrary, and continued to rely unreasonably on 
management’s and counsel’s earlier false representations that Qwest had the ability to transfer title, 
and continued false representations that Qwest met the ownership transfer requirements and 
satisfied the conditions in the legal opinion.   

       7.     Although Iwan advised Qwest management regarding the requirements under 
GAAP for proper revenue recognition on IRUs, Iwan failed to supervise others on the engagement 
and to ensure that Andersen had obtained sufficient competent evidential matter to afford a 
reasonable basis, pursuant to the requirements he set forth, for an unqualified audit report regarding 
Qwest’s IRU revenue recognition policy.  Specifically, Andersen failed to obtain sufficient 
evidentiary material to support management’s false representations that Qwest’s accounting for  
IRUs was in accordance with GAAP.  Andersen unreasonably relied on management’s false 
representations that Qwest’s accounting for IRUs was in accordance with GAAP, ultimately 
resulting in Qwest improperly recognizing approximately $4 billion in IRU revenue during fiscal 
years 1999 through 2001.  Iwan, therefore, failed to exercise due professional care and skepticism 
prior to signing the audit reports.  Had Andersen independently obtained and sought corroborating 
evidence supporting management’s representations as required by GAAS, it would have concluded 
that Qwest’s IRU revenue recognition was improper and that Qwest management had falsely 
represented facts critical to its conclusion that Qwest’s IRU revenue recognition was consistent 
with GAAP.  

        8.    GAAS provides that an auditor can issue an audit report containing an unqualified 
opinion only if he has conducted his audit in accordance with GAAS.  Because Iwan failed to 
conduct the 1999 through 2001 audits of Qwest in accordance with GAAS by failing to ensure that  
the audit team obtained sufficient competent evidential matter, he acted unreasonably in issuing 
audit reports with unqualified opinions.  

D. FINDINGS         
 
       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Iwan engaged in improper professional 
conduct within the meaning of Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice by 

                                               4
  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

engaging in repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable 
professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice before the Commission.  
 
                                      Respondent’s Cooperation  
    
       In determining to accept his Offer, the Commission considered Respondent's cooperation 
afforded the Commission staff.  
 
                                         Undertakings  
    
       In connection with this action and any related judicial or administrative proceeding or 
investigation commenced by the Commission or  to which the Commission is a party, Respondent 
undertakes to cooperate with the Commission staff and:  (i) agrees to appear and be interviewed  
by Commission staff at such times and places as the staff requests upon reasonable notice; (ii) will 
accept service by mail or facsimile transmission of notices or subpoenas issued by the Commission 
for documents or testimony at depositions, hearings, or trials, or in connection with any related 
investigation by Commission staff; (iii) appoints Respondent’s attorney as agent to receive service  
of such notices and subpoenas; (iv) with respect to such notices and subpoenas, waives the 
territorial limits on service contained in Rule 45 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and any 
applicable local rules, provided that the party requesting the testimony reimburses Respondent’s 
travel, lodging, and subsistence expenses at the then-prevailing U.S. Government per diem rates;   
and (v) consents to personal jurisdiction over Respondent in any United States District Court for 
purposes of enforcing any such subpoena. 
    
       In determining whether to accept the Offer, the Commission has considered these 
undertakings.   

                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Iwan’s Offer.  
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
                    A. Mark M. Iwan is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant. 
 
                    B. After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the  
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the  
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                                1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 

                                                5
  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
      
                2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                            (a)  Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight          Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                        (b)      Respondent, or the registered    public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms  
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision or, if the Board has not conducted an 
inspection, has received an unqualified report relating to his, or the firm’s, most recent peer 
review conducted in accordance with the guidelines adopted by the former SEC Practice Section 
of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Division for CPA Firms or an 
organization providing equivalent oversight and quality control functions; 

                        (c)      Respondent has resolved all di   sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                        (d)      Respondent acknowledges       his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 
      
        C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependant on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Jonathan                                                       G. Katz
       Secretary                                                     

                                                     6
  
