---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                 STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                           the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  59071 / December 9, 2008 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2907 / December 9, 2008 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-13305 
                                             
      :  
 :                                                   
 :                                                    
           In the Matter of                 :             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                   :             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE
          ROBERT P. VERHEECKE (CPA),   :             102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                   :             PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
  Respondent.                             :     IMPO      SING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                          :      
                                          :      
____________________________________ :              
  
  
                                               I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Robert 
P. Verheecke (“Respondent”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1
            
                                                 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
       1.           Respondent, age 56, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to practice 
in the State of California.  He served as senior vice president, chief financial officer, and secretary 
of Blue Coat Systems, Inc. (“Blue Coat”) from May 2001 until May 2005 and continued to work on 
special projects for Blue Coat until January 2006. 
        
       2.           Blue Coat was, at all relevant times, a Delaware corporation with its principal place 
of business in Sunnyvale, California.  Blue Coat was engaged in the business of making appliances 
to secure and monitor computer networks.  At all relevant times, Blue Coat’s common stock was 
registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Exchange Act”), and traded on the NASDAQ National Market. 
 
       3. On November 12,        2008, the Commission filed a complaint against Respondent in 
SEC v. Blue Coat Systems, Inc. (Civil Action No. CV 08-5127 JF).  On November 21, 2008, the 
court entered an order permanently enjoining Respondent, by consent, from future violations of 
Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the 
Exchange Act, and Rules 10b-5, 13a-14, 13b2-1, and 13b2-2 thereunder, and from aiding and 
abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B), and 14(a) of the Exchange Act and 
Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, 13a-13, and 14a-9 thereunder.  Respondent was also ordered to pay 
$30,000 in disgorgement, $5,946 in prejudgment interest, and a $150,000 civil money penalty. 
 
 4. The Commission’s complain              t alleged, among other things, that from at least 2001 
through 2005, Blue Coat and Verheecke backdated stock options granted to company employees 
and executives and failed to disclose millions of dollars in expenses to Blue Coat shareholders.  
Verheecke used hindsight to pick dates corresponding to low stock prices for stock option grants, 
prepared or distributed misleading documents that made it appear as if the options had been 
granted on the earlier dates, and prepared or approved financial statements and Commission filings 
that omitted necessary expenses for backdated options and falsely described Blue Coat’s option 
granting practices. 
 

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                 IV. 
                                                    
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
              A.          Respondent is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
              B.          After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                                         (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight       Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Respondent, or the registered                           public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

   (c) Respondent has resolved all di                          sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
   (d) Respondent acknowledges                              his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews, and quality control 
standards.   
      
       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
                                                  3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Florence E. Harmon 
       Acting Secretary 

                                                                                                   4 
