---------------------Page 1---------------------

                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                          Before the

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  57053 / December 27, 2007 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2761 / December 27, 2007 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12797 

In the Matter of 

   RICHARD E. SELLERS, CPA,             ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND IMPOSING 
                                        REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-AND-
               and                      DESIST ORDER PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 4C 
                                        AND 21C OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE 
 LESTER REX ANDERSEN, CPA   ACT OF 1934 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                        COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE 
Respondents. 

                                              I. 

       On September 13, 2007, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) issued 
an Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 4C 1 
and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice 2
         (“OIP”) against Richard E. Sellers, CPA (“Sellers”) and Lester Rex Andersen, CPA 
(“Andersen”) (collectively, “Respondents”).    

1 
       Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that: 
       The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the privilege 
of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the 
requisite qualifications to represent others . . . or (3) to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the 
violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
2 
       Rules 102(e)(1)(i) and (iii) provide, in pertinent part, that: 
       The Commission may censure any person or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing 
or practicing before it in any way to any person who is found…(i) not to possess the requisite qualifications to 
represent others; . . . or (iii) to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of any provision of 
the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              II. 

       Respondents have each submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offers”) which the Commission 
has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings 
brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without 
admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and 
the subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of 
this Order Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order 
Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice (“Order”), as set forth below.   

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds that: 

                                         Respondents 

       A.     Respondent Richard E. Sellers, CPA, is a resident of the State of Nevada and has 
been a licensed CPA for over 37 years; he is currently licensed in Nevada and New York.  From 
February 2003 until in or about February 2004 Sellers was affiliated with the public accounting 
firm of Sellers & Andersen, LLC (“S&A”).  Sellers and Andersen were the only members of S&A 
and it had no other employees.  As of June 2007, S&A’s legal existence was terminated by the 
State of Utah for nonpayment of annual fees.  Since February 2004, Sellers has been affiliated with 
a registered public accounting firm for purposes of conducting audits of public reporting 
companies, while operating under his own name for other professional engagements. 

       B.     Respondent Lester Rex Andersen, CPA, is a resident of Utah and has been a 
licensed CPA for over 48 years; he is currently licensed as a CPA in the State of Utah.  From 
February 2003 until in or about February 2004 Andersen was affiliated with S&A.  Since February 
2004, he has been affiliated with a registered public accounting firm for purposes of conducting 
audits of public reporting companies, while operating under his own name for other professional 
engagements.   

                                             Facts 

1.     S&A’s Failure to Register with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board 

       C.     Section 102(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Act”), prohibits any person 
that is not a registered public accounting firm with the Public Company Accounting Oversight 
Board (“Board”) from preparing or issuing, or participating in the preparation or issuance of, any 
audit report with respect to any public reporting company after October 22, 2003.  S&A did not 
register with the Board on or before October 22, 2003. 

       D.     Both Sellers and Andersen were aware of the October 22, 2003 deadline for S&A’s 
registration with the Board.  Sellers took it upon himself to be the person in the firm to make an 

                                               2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

application for registration with the Board on behalf of S&A.  S&A ultimately filed a completed 
application for registration with the Board on December 9, 2003, but never became registered.   

       E.      Even though S&A had failed to register with the Board, it issued reports after the 
October 22, 2003 deadline on the financial statements of five clients required to file periodic 
reports with the Commission.  These reports were included in filings made by those issuers with 
the Commission on Form 10-KSB or Form 10-K.  Both Sellers and Andersen prepared, issued, or 
participated in the preparation or issuance, of the five audit reports issued by S&A after October 
22, 2003. 

       F.      S&A was paid an aggregate of $9,615 by the issuers in audit fees for conducting 
audits of the financial statements of the five companies for which S&A filed audit reports after 
October 22, 2003. 

2. S&A’s       Proceeding Before the Board 

       G.      The Board prepared and sent a Notice of Hearing on the Registration Application of 
Sellers & Andersen, LLC, to S&A on January 20, 2004, to determine whether to accept or reject 
that application.  In a response letter to the Board dated January 22, 2004, S&A stated it had 
released only two audit reports after October 22, 2003, when in fact, by that date it had released 
five audit reports.   

       H.      In a subsequent letter to the Commission’s Division of Corporation Finance, dated 
February 10, 2004, S&A stated that it had found two additional clients for which it had released 
audit reports after October 22, 2003.  Even then, S&A did not admit to having issued a fifth report 
dated November 26, 2003. 

       I.      S&A justified its actions to the Board by stating the firm had decided to issue the 
audit reports without being registered because its clients might be harmed if the filings were not 
made in a timely fashion. Ultimately, an agreement was reached whereby S&A withdrew its 
application for registration. 

       J.      Sellers and Andersen referred their audit reporting clients to another Salt Lake City, 
Utah, public accounting firm that was registered with the Board.  They also became employees of 
that firm for purposes of continuing to conduct audits of those companies, while operating under 
their own individual names for other non-audit professional engagements.   

       K.      The registered public accounting firm with which Sellers and Andersen became 
affiliated performed re-audits of, and issued new reports on, all five issuers for which S&A had 
improperly issued reports.  S&A paid the accounting firm $2,000 for these reaudits. 

                                           Violations 

       L.      Section 102(a) of the Act provides that “it shall be unlawful for any person that is 
not a registered public accounting firm to prepare or issue, or to participate in the preparation or 

                                                3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

issuance of, any audit report with respect to any issuer.” 3 

       M.      The provisions of Section 102(a) of the Act became effective on October 22, 2003.    4 

       N.      Because S&A had not registered with Board, it lacked “the requisite qualifications” 
to issue audit reports after October 22, 2003.  By participating in the preparation of five audit reports 
after October 22, 2003, by an audit firm that was not registered with the Board, Sellers and 
Andersen lacked “the requisite qualifications to represent others.” 

       O.      Although Sellers and Andersen were aware of the registration requirement, they 
nevertheless knowingly or recklessly caused S&A to prepare and issue five audit reports after 
October 22, 2003, on the financial statements of companies required to file periodic reports with 
the Commission without first registering S&A with the Board.  In so doing, S&A violated Section 
102(a) of the Act.   

       P.      Sellers and Andersen knowingly rendered substantial assistance to S&A in its 
primary violations of the Act, because they failed to register it with the Board before the October 
22, 2003 deadline although they were aware of the registration requirement.  They knew that their 
actions would result in the violation by S&A of Section 102(a) of the Act if S&A issued audit 
reports, without having been registered with the Board, with respect to the financial statements of 
issuers whose securities were registered with the Commission.   

                                              Findings 

       Q.      As a result of the conduct described above, Sellers and Andersen willfully aided 
and abetted and caused violations of Section 102(a) of the Act.  

       R.      As a result of the conduct described above, Sellers and Andersen did not possess 
the requisite qualifications to represent others.  

                                                 IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondents’ Offers.  

3 
       A violation of the Act or any rule that the Board issues under the Act is treated for all purposes in the same 
manner as a violation of the Exchange Act, including with respect to penalties.  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 15 
U.S.C.A. § 7202(b)(1) (West 2002). 
4 
       Section 102(a) became effective “[b]eginning 180 days after the date of the determination of the 
Commission under Section 101(d)” of the Act that the Board was prepared to undertake its statutory responsibilities.  
The Commission made the required determination on April 25, 2003.  See Order Regarding Section 101(d) of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Securities Act Release No. 8223, Exchange Act Release No. 47746, 2003 WL 
1956164  (Apr. 25, 2003). 

                                                  4

---------------------Page 5---------------------

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     Respondents shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
any future violations of Section 102(a) of the Act. 

       B.     Respondents are censured. 

       C.     Respondents may practice before the Commission as independent accountants 
provided that: 

              1.      The public accounting firm with which they are associated is registered with 
the Board in accordance with the Act, and such registration continues to be effective; and 

              2.      They have submitted to the Commission staff (attention: Office of the Chief 
Accountant) the Board’s letter notifying the public accounting firm with which they are associated 
that its registration application has been approved. 

       D.     Respondents shall, jointly and severally, within 20 days of the entry of this Order, 
pay disgorgement of $7,615 to the United States Treasury.  Such payment shall be: (A) made by 
United States postal money order, certified check, bank cashier's check or bank money order; (B) 
made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission; (C) hand-delivered or mailed to the 
Office of Financial Management, Securities and Exchange Commission, Operations Center, 6432 
General Green Way, Stop 0-3, Alexandria, VA 22312; and (D) submitted under cover letter that 
identifies Richard E. Sellers and Lester Rex Andersen as Respondents in these proceedings and 
includes the file number of these proceedings, a copy of which cover letter and money order or 
check shall be sent to Kenneth D. Israel, Regional Director, Securities and Exchange Commission, 
Salt Lake Regional Office, 15 West South Temple Street, Suite 1800, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101.  

 By       the Commission. 

      N                                      ancy M. Morris
                                     Secretary 

                                               5

