---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                          the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 51501 / April 7, 2005 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2225 / April 7, 2005 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-11885 
                                                ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-
                                                AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS 
In the Matter of 
                              PURSUANT TO SECTION 8A OF THE 
                                                SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECTION 
STEPHEN C. JONES, CPA,
                         21C OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE  
                                                ACT OF 1934 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
Respondent. 
                                   COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                                 MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                                 REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND 
                                          A CEASE-AND-           DESIST ORDER  
 
 
 
 
 
                                              I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate  that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist  proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Stephen C. 
Jones, CPA (“Jones” or “Respondent”) pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 
(“Securities Act”), Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and 
Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) and 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.1 
                                                                         
                                                
                                                
                                                 
1 
       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that:  
 
       The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before  
       it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct.                                      
 
Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that:   
 
       The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before  
       it . . . to any person who is found…to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of 
       any provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.    
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these  proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) whic h the Commission has determined   to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the              
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisd  iction over him and the subject matter of these      
proceedings, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative and 
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and 
Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Pr actice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial  
Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds 2
                                                                                 that:  
 
A.      RESPONDENT  
 
       Stephen C. Jones , age 38, worked as a Senior Fina  ncial Reporting Manager at Dollar 
General Corporation (“Dollar General”) from Fe bruary 1998 through Apr il 1999, as a Senior   
Accounting Manager at Dollar General from April 1999 through August 2000, and as the Director  
of Financial Planning and Analysis at Dollar General from August 2000 through April 2002.  He is  
a resident of Kentucky.  Respondent has been      licensed as a Certified Public Accountant in 
Kentucky since 1994. 
 
B. FACTS        
 
       1.      Under-Reporting of Freight Expenses  
 
               a.     Dollar General is a Tennessee corporation headquartered in Goodlettsville, 
Tennessee.  Dollar General is a discount retailer  of general merchandise.  The company operates  
over 7,000 stores in 30 states.  Dollar General’s common stock is registered with the Commission 
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 
               b.     In December 1999, Dollar General employees discovered that the Company 
had failed to record millions of dollars in expenses relating to import freight costs associated with 
transporting goods from foreign countries to Dolla r General (hereinafter re ferred to as “freight  
expenses”).   Dollar General’s accounting staff an alyzed the issue and determined that Dollar   
                                                 
2 
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any    
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
                                                2  
                                                  
                                                  
                                                  
                                                  
                                                  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

General should have recognized an additional $13.4 million in freight expenses in fiscal year 1999  
and prior years.  This issue was discussed in   a meeting held on January 27, 2000, which was    
attended by Respondent. 
  
               c.     Certain of Dollar General’s executives collectively determined to defer the 
bulk of the freight expenses to fi scal year 2000, instead of record ing the expenses in the correct 
periods (fiscal year 1999 and prior periods)     as required by Generally Accepted Accounting   
Principles (“GAAP”).  The executives knew that deferring the bulk of the expenses to fiscal year  
2000 would avoid the negative impact on already announced fiscal year 1999 earnings as well as  
year-end bonus payments to Dollar General employees, including Respondent.   
 
               d.     On or about February   2, 2000, in a meeting attended by several members of 
Dollar General’s accounting team, including Respondent and Dollar General’s Controller and its  
Treasurer, the Controller stated that the Company’s executive management had determined to book 
most of the freight expenses in fiscal year 2000.  During this  meeting, the Treasurer expressed his  
view that management could be compromising their ethics by handling the expenses in that manner  
and that he believed Dollar General’s financial statements would not be appropriately presented if  
the freight expenses were deferred to fiscal  year 2000.  Respondent and another Dollar General   
accountant expressed their agreement with the Treasurer. 
 
               e.      The Controller directed Respondent to record the freight expenses in the   
following manner:  (1) write off $4 million of the  freight expenses in fiscal year 1999; and (2)   
recognize the remaining $9.4 million over the course of fiscal year 2000 on a monthly basis.  In an  
attempt to hide part of the improper deferral from the Company’s auditors, the Controller directed 
Respondent to move $1.3 million of the $9.4      million to the miscellaneous accrued liabilities   
account, widely known at Dollar General as th e “Rainy Day Fund,” and $2.7 million of the $9.4 
million to corporate bank clearing accounts.  Neither of these accounts had any connection to       
freight expenses.  Respondent knew that this       accounting treatment was improper, but he        
nevertheless followed the  Controller’s instructions. 
 
  f.                  Dollar General’s manipulation of     the freight expenses resulted in an 
overstatement of Dollar General’s fiscal year  1998 pre-tax income by $ 5.9 million and its fiscal  
year 1999 pre-tax income by $3.7 million, with corresponding understatements in the Company’s  
fiscal year 2000.   By deferring th e freight expenses, Dollar General met certain targets.  For    
example, if the freight expenses had been recognized in fiscal year 1999 as required by GAAP,   
bonuses for Dollar General executives and employees, including Respondent, would have been 
lower.   Further, the deferment  enabled Dollar General to meet analysts’ expectations for its      
earnings per share for fiscal year 1999.  If Dolla r General had recognized the freight expenses in 
fiscal year 1999, it would  have fallen short of the analysts’ e xpectations by two cents per share.   
The freight expense deferment devised by others and implemented by Respondent and others was  

                                                3  
                                                  
                                                  
                                                  
                                                  
                                                  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

in clear violation of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 20, “Accounting Changes,” which 
requires a material error in previously issued financial statements to be reported as a prior period 
adjustment.  In addition, because the import freight expense was material to fiscal year 1999, if all  
of it was recognized in the fourth quarter, the appropriate treatment of the expense was to allocate  
it correctly across the prior reporting periods it affected in fiscal years 1998 and 1999.  That would 
have required Dollar General to restate those pe riods, a material event avoided by spreading the  
amount over fiscal year 2000. 
 
               g.     Respondent knew or was reckless  in not knowing that Dollar General’s   
external auditors would disagree with the hand    ling of these freight expenses.  Respondent, 
knowing that it was wrong to do so, did not bring the issue to the attention of the auditors. 
        
       2.      Overstatement of Cash Accounts  
        
        a.            From approximately November       1997 until March 2000,  Dollar General 
failed to properly or timely reconcile its consolidated retail store bank accounts to its general  
ledger.   Dollar General’s management was aware   of this practice for years.  Upon ultimate 
completion of the reconciliation process in Dollar  General’s fiscal year 2000, Dollar General’s 
accounting group discovered an unexplained overstatement of retail cash of at least $4.7 million.   
Dollar General’s Controller proposed that half of this amount be written off against sales expense  
and the other half be written off against shrink (an expense   relating to reduction in inventory) 
instead of an appropriate administrative expe  nse account.  These reco  mmendations were in   
contravention of GAAP.  Dollar General’s accounting staff, including Respondent, understood that  
no one outside of the Company’s accounting department was to know of this cash issue.    
        
               b.     In a later meeting, Respondent sugg ested to the Controller that the entire 
overstatement of cash could be written off to th  e “franchise purchase discount account.”  The   
Controller adopted Respondent’s proposal and s  ubsequently charged $3 million of the cash 
overstatement as an expense to the franchise purchase discount account over six months in fiscal  
year 2000.  This was not consistent with GAAP because the franchise purchase discount account  
bears no relation to cash accounts at Dollar General.  Respondent knew that this suggestion was 
not consistent with GAAP, but he believed it was an effective way to hide the cash problem.  The  
Controller charged the remaining  $1.9 million to Dollar General’s  “Rainy Day Fund”, an action 
also contrary to GAAP.  Because  this $1.9 million was not expens ed by Dollar General in the 
fourth quarter of fiscal year 2000, Dollar Gene   ral’s fourth quarter 2000 pre-tax income was    
overstated by that amount, or approximately 2% of Dollar General’s restated fourth quarter 2000 
pre-tax income. 
        
               c.     Dollar General filed registration st atements on August 1, 2000, August 9, 
2000, and March 9, 2001       in connection with securities offerings by Dollar General that      

                                                4  
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

incorporated the false financial statements contained in Dollar General’s Form 10-K for fiscal year 
1999. 
 
C. VIOLATIONS     
 
       1.      Section 17(a) of the Securities Act prohi bits misrepresentations or omissions of 
material facts in the offer or sale of securities.  Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 
thereunder prohibit fraud “in connection with the purchase or sale” of securities.  A person who 
“had knowledge of the fraud and assisted in its perpetration” violates Section 10(b) and Rule 10b-
5.  SEC v. U.S. Environmental, Inc., 155 F.3d 107, 112 (2d Cir. 1998) (Section 10(b) liability not  
limited to “supervisors or directors of securities fraud scheme” and includes “subordinates who   
also violated the securities laws”). 
 
       2.      To hold a person liable under Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, Section 10(b) of  
the Exchange Act, and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, the misrepresentation or omission must be material, 
meaning that a reasonable investor would have consid  ered the misrepresented or omitted fact   
important when deciding whether to buy, sell or hold the securities in question.  See Basic Inc. v.  
Levinson, 485 U.S. 224, 231-32 (1988).  In addition, the person must act with scienter, which can  
be shown by knowledge, or reckless disregard,   of the fraudulent scheme or the undisclosed 
information.  See Aaron v. SEC, 446 U.S. 680, 701-02 (1980).     
 
       3.      Respondent, through his conduct described above, willfully violated Section 17(a)  
of the Securities Act, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act, and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.  Respondent  
knowingly participated in and implemented a scheme to under-report Dollar General’s expenses in  
its Fiscal Year 1999, thus causing  Dollar General’s earnings to be  overstated.  Respondent also 
knowingly assisted Dollar General to overstate its cash accounts.      
 
       4.      Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act requires  issuers of registered securities to file  
with the Commission factually accurate reports.  Exchange Act Rule 13a-1 requires the filing of   
annual reports, and Exchange Act Rule 13a-13 requires the filing of quarterly reports on Form 10-
Q.  Rule 12b-20 requires disclosure of such additional information as may be necessary to make    
the required statements not misleading.  Implicit   in these provisions is the requirement that the   
information reported be true, correct and complete.  See United States v. Bilzerian, 926 F.2d 1285, 
1298 (2d Cir. 1991).  No showing of scienter is required to violate Section 13(a).  See, e.g., SEC v.   
Savoy Indus., Inc., 587 F.2d 1149, 1165 (D.C. Cir. 1978). 
 
       5.      As discussed above, Respondent caused Dollar General to file false and misleading 
quarterly and annual reports with the Commission   that misrepresented the financial results of 
Dollar General.  By his conduct described abov  e, Respondent willfully aided and abetted and 

                                                5  
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

caused Dollar General’s violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1  
and 13a-13 thereunder. 
 
       6.     Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange  Act requires reporting companies registered 
pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act to   “make and keep books, records, and accounts,   
which in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly refl ect the transactions . .  . of the issuer.”  No 
showing of scienter is required to establish a violation of Section 13(b)(2)(A).  See SEC v. World-
Wide Coin Invs., Ltd. , 567 F. Supp. 724, 751   (N.D. Ga. 1983).  Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the    
Exchange Act requires reporting companies to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting 
controls sufficient to reasonably assure that, among other things, transactions are recorded and 
financial statements are prepared in conformity with GAAP.  Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act  
provides that no person shall knowi ngly falsify any such book, record , or account or circumvent  
internal controls.   Rule 13b2-1 also prohibits th e falsification of any book, record, or account 
subject to Section 13(b)(2)(A). 
 
       7.     As described above, Respondent knowi ngly falsified Dollar General’s books and  
records by recording freight expenses in 2000 that related to prior periods, contrary to GAAP.  As 
a result, Respondent willfully violated Section 13(b)(5) and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder.  In addition,  
Respondent willfully aided and abetted and caused Dollar General’s violations of 
Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act.  
 
D.      FINDINGS  
 
       1.     Based on the foregoin  g, the Commission finds th      at Respondent engaged in 
improper professional conduct within the meaning of Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules  
of Practice and willfully violated and willfully aided and abetted the violation of provisions of the 
federal securities laws within th e meaning of Rule 102(e)(1)(iii)  of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice. 
 
       2.     Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent (a) willfully         
violated Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and  Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act  
and Rules 10b-5 and 13b2-1 prom  ulgated thereunder; and (b) willfully aided and abetted and 
caused Dollar General’s violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange 
Act, and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 promulgated thereunder. 
 
E. UNDERTAKINGS             
 
       1.     In connection with this proceeding     and any related judicial or administrative 
proceeding or investigation comm enced by the Commission or to which the Commission is a 
party, Respondent undertakes and agrees (i) to appear and be interviewed by Commission staff at 
such times and places as the staff requests upon reasonable notice; (ii) to accept service by mail or 
                                               6  
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

facsimile transmission of notices or subpoena  s issued by the Commiss  ion for documents or   
testimony at depositions, hearings,  or trials, or in connection w ith any related investigation by 
Commission staff; (iii) to appoint Respondent's attorney Therese D. Pritchard, Esq. of Bryan Cave  
LLP, 700 Thirteenth Street, NW, Washington D.C. 20005-3960, as agent to receive service of such 
notices and subpoenas; (iv) with respect to such  notices and subpoenas, to waive the territorial 
limits on service contained in Rule 45 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and any applicable  
local rules; and (v) to consent to personal ju risdiction over Respondent in any United States   
District Court for purposes of enforcing any such subpoena. 
  
                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
       A.      Respondent shall cease and desist from committing or causing an y violations and 
any future violations  of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the   
Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5      and 13b2-1 promulgated thereu nder; and from causing any   
violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange  
Act, and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 promulgated thereunder.  
        
       B.      Respondent is denied the privilege      of appearing or practicing before the       
Commission as an accountant. 
 
       C.       After three years from the date of this    Order, Respondent may request that the   
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief 
Accountant) to resume appearing or  practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                                1. a  preparer  or reviewer, or a person respons  ible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statemen ts that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that   Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the inde pendent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptabl     e manner, as long as he practices before the     
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
      
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission 
that: 
      

                                                7  
                                                  
                                                  
                                                  
                                                  
                                                  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

                            (a)  Respondent,  or  the  public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Co       mpany Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                         (b)     Respondent, or the registered     public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms   
of or potential defects in the     Respondent’s or the firm’s quali  ty control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision;   

                             (c) Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of a  ny sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                         (d)     Respondent acknowledges            his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices   before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections , concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 
 
        D.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that  his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary  issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinst       atement by the Commission, the Commission will                
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters      referenced above, any other ma  tters relating to Respondent’s 
character, integrity, professional   conduct, or qualifications to a  ppear or practice before the 
Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Jonathan                                                        G. Katz
       Secretary                                                      

                                                     8
  
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
