---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED STATES                                               OF AMERICA 
 before the 
                                            SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 57165 / January 17, 2008 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2768 / January 17, 2008 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12932 
                                                      
                                                       :  
 :  
 :   
        In the Matter of                                         :             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                                                     :             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
                            MARK E. SULLIVAN,         :             102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                                                     :             PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
            Respondent.                  :     IMPO                   SING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                               :      
                                               :      
____________________________________ :              
   
                                                         I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Mark E. 
Sullivan (“Respondent” or “Sullivan”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice. 1
              
                                                           
                                                        II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III (3) below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
                     1.           Sullivan, age 46, was a certified public accountant licensed to practice in the 
Commonwealth of Massachusetts from 1986 to 1993.  He served as Director of World-Wide 
operations for Applix , Inc. (“Applix”) from 2001 to 2006.  
        
                     2.           Applix was, at all relevant times, a Massachusetts corporation with its 
principal place of business in Westborough, Massachusetts.  Applix was engaged in the business of 
developing and distributing enterprise management software.  At all relevant times, Applix’s 
common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and traded on the NASDAQ SmallCap Market. 
 
                     3.           On January 9, 2008, a final judgment was entered against Sullivan, 
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, 
Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5 and 13b2-1 thereunder, and 
aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act 
and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder, in the civil action entitled Securities and 
Exchange Commission v. Alan C. Goldsworthy et. al, Civil Action Number 06 CV 10012 JGD, in 
the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts.  Sullivan was also ordered to pay 
a $25,000 civil money penalty. 
 
                            4.           The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Sullivan, 
 with the former CEO and former CFO of Applix, engaged in a fraudulent scheme which resulted 
 in Applix filing materially false and misleading financial statements in the company’s annual 
 report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001, in the company’s quarterly 
 reports on Form 10-Q for the first three quarters of fiscal year 2002, in an S-8 registration 
 statement filed on July 25, 2002 and a Form 8-K filed February 5, 2003.  The Complaint alleged 
 that Sullivan engaged in improper accounting practices that materially increased Applix’s annual 
 and quarterly revenue and decreased its net loss in a departure from generally accepted 
 accounting principles (“GAAP”).  These practices included, among other things, prematurely 
 recognizing revenue on the sale of a not-yet available products and prematurely recognizing 
 revenue on a sale as to which there was a right of return.   
                                                  
 
 

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                 IV. 
                                                    
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Sullivan’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
              A.          Sullivan is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
              B.          After three years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                                         (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Respondent, or the registered                           public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

   (c) Respondent has resolved all di                          sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
   (d) Respondent acknowledges                              his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
      
       C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
                                                  3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

                                                                              4 
