---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                              STATES OF AMERICA 
 before                                       the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 52481 / September 21, 2005 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2316 / September 21, 2005 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12049  
                                             
 
                                             
                                             
                                             
In the Matter of                            ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                            ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS, 
      DAVID J. CAMMARATA, CPA               MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                            REMEDIAL SANCTIONS PURSUANT TO 
Respondent.                                 RULE 102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S 
                                            RULES OF PRACTICE 
 
 
 
                                             
                                           I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against David J. 
Cammarata (“Cammarata” or “Respondent”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1
                                           II. 
 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides in pertinent part as follows: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III. paragraph 3 below, which are admitted, 
Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings, 
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
                     1.           Cammarata, age 40, is a certified public accountant.  He was Chief Financial 
Officer (“CFO”) at IMPATH Inc. (“Impath”) from November 1999 until his termination in May 
2002, and worked as Impath’s Controller and Vice President-Finance from 1992-1999. 
 
                    2.           Impath, a Delaware corporation that had its headquarters in New York City, 
provided diagnostic and prognostic services to health care providers engaged in the treatment of 
cancer and sold human tissue specimens to biopharmaceutical companies engaged in the 
development of gene-based cancer treatments.  Its common stock was   registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and was traded on the Nasdaq 
National Market.   Impath filed for bankruptcy protection in September 2003.   Its common stock 
has been deregistered and it is being liquidated under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code.     
 
  3. On March 29, 2005                    , the Commission filed a complaint against Cammarata 
in SEC v. Saad, et al., 05 Civ. 3308 (JSR) (S.D.N.Y.).  On July 26, 2005, the court entered an 
amended partial final judgment enjoining Cammarata, by consent, from violating Section 17(a) of 
the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and 
Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder, and from controlling any person who violates Section 
13(a), 13(b)(2) and 14(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-13, 14a-3 and 14a-9 
thereunder.  The court also barred Cammarata from acting as an officer or director of a public 
company. 
 
                            4.           The Commission’s complaint alleges, among other things, that during 
Cammarata’s tenure as CFO of Impath, he engaged in a fraudulent scheme to inflate Impath’s 
reported financial results.  As part of the fraudulent scheme, Cammarata and others employed 
improper accounting practices that violated generally accepted accounting principles and resulted in 
material overstatements of the revenue, net income and assets that Impath reported for annual and 
quarterly periods.  As a result of this scheme, Impath filed materially false and misleading periodic 
reports.  Cammarata signed periodic reports even though he knew that they were false and 
misleading. 
 

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                        IV. 
                                                                                            
             In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Cammarata’s Offer. 
 
              Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that Cammarata is suspended 
from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant.   
   
 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Jonathan G. Katz 
       Secretary 

                                                                                          3 
