---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                 STATES OF AMERICA 
 before                                           the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  55622 / April 12, 2007 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2595 / April 12, 2007 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12615
                                             
      :  
 :                                                   
 :                                                    
              In the Matter of              :             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                   :             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
             JIMMY LYNN BRADLEY (CPA), :            102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                   :             PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
             Respondent.                        :             IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                          :      
                                          :      
____________________________________ :              
                                                     
                                               I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Jimmy 
Lynn Bradley (“Respondent” or “Bradley”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1
                     
 
 
                                                 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3. below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
        
       1.           Bradley, age 44, is a resident of Katy, Texas.  At all relevant times, he was a 
certified public accountant (“CPA”) licensed in Arkansas.  Bradley served as chief financial officer 
of UCAP, Inc. (“UCAP”) from approximately March 2001 through May 2003 and again from 
October 2003 through April 2004.  Bradley also served as a UCAP director from October 30, 2003 
through April 20, 2004.     
               
       2.           At all relevant times, UCAP was a Colorado corporation with its principal place of 
business in Aurora, Colorado.  UCAP operated a mortgage banking business until it ceased 
operations on approximately April 30, 2004.  UCAP's common stock was registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) 
from 1996 through August 23, 2005, and the company was required to file reports with the 
Commission on Forms 10-KSB and 10-QSB.  At all relevant times, UCAP’s common stock traded 
in the Pink Sheets (on www.pinksheets.com, a service of Pink Sheets LLC).  On August 23, 2005, 
the Commission revoked UCAP’s securities registration pursuant to Section 12(j) of the Exchange 
Act.   
 
       3.     On ______, 2006, the Commission filed a complaint against Bradley in SEC v. 
Jimmy Lynn Bradley, et al., Civil Action No. 06-____, United States District Court for the District 
of Colorado.  On ______, 2006, the court entered an order permanently enjoining Bradley, by 
consent, from future violations of Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-
5, 13a-14 and 13b2-1 thereunder, and from aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a) and 
13(b)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-1 thereunder.  The court further ordered 
that Bradley be barred from acting as an officer or director of any issuer that has a class of 
securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act or that is required to file reports 
pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. 
 
       4.     The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Bradley knowingly 
allowed UCAP fraudulently to overstate revenue by recording only half of a revenue adjustment 
necessary to make UCAP’s financial statements comply with generally accepted accounting 

                                               2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

principles (“GAAP”) and to overstate the value of real estate.  Together, these machinations 
enabled UCAP to meet falsely a key financial covenant required to save the company’s sole line of 
credit.  Additionally, Bradley knowingly allowed UCAP to record revenue from a real estate 
transaction with a related party and fail to record an expense for a settlement agreement between 
UCAP and a third party.  Moreover, on January 15, 2003, Bradley certified falsely UCAP’s 2002 
Form 10-KSB and filed it with the Commission.  As a result, UCAP’s financial statements for the 
annual period ended September 30, 2002 understated the company’s pre-tax net loss by over $1.8 
million, or 26 percent, and were therefore false and misleading. 
 
                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Bradley’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
        
       A.          Bradley is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant.   
 
              B.          After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such an 
application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company for 
which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
                                                                           
                                         (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Respondent, or the registered                         public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of 
or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

   (c) Respondent has resolved all di                         sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                                                  3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

   (d) Respondent acknowledges his re                                       sponsibility, as long as Respondent 
appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
 
             C.          The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current 
and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependant on reinstatement by the Commission, 
the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review 
may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters 
relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear 
or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 
 

                                                           4 
