---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                               

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                         Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No.  54666 / October 30, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No.  2501 / October 30, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No.  3-12464 
 
In the Matter of                       ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
                                       PROCEEDINGS, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
        STUART DOYLE,                  IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
                                       PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF THE 
Respondent.                            SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
                                                                  
 
                                             I. 

       The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), against Stuart Doyle (“Doyle” or the 
“Respondent”). 

                                             II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting 
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order 
Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.1

                                                 
       1
              In a separate civil action filed simultaneously with this proceeding, Doyle has separately 
consented to the entry of a judgment by the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan pursuant to 
Section 21(d) of the Exchange Act ordering him to pay a civil penalty of $40,000.  SEC v. Delphi Corporation, et 
al., Civil Action No. 2:06-cv-14891 (AC) (E.D. Mich. Oct. 30, 2006). 

 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 2

       A.     Respondent and Delphi Corporation (“Delphi”) 

              1.     Respondent 

       Doyle, 49, is a resident of Rochester Hills, Michigan.  At all relevant times, he was a 
client executive at a Texas information technology company (the “IT Company”) supporting the 
IT Company’s relationship with Delphi.   

              2.     Delphi 

       Delphi is an auto parts supplier headquartered in Troy, Michigan.  At all relevant times, 
Delphi’s common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the 
Exchange Act and was listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the symbol 
“DPH.”  On October 8, 2005, Delphi filed for bankruptcy in the Southern District of New York.  
On November 11, 2005, Delphi was delisted from the NYSE.  Delphi’s common stock is now 
registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and trades in the 
over the counter market and is quoted in the pink sheets under the symbol “DPHIQ.” 

       B.     Facts 

              1. Introduction 
       Prior to December 2001, Delphi had entered agreements with the IT Company under 
which the IT Company provided information technology (“IT”) services to Delphi (the “Existing 
IT Agreements”).  In December 2001, Delphi and the IT Company entered into a new five-year 
IT contract, pursuant to which Delphi agreed to pay the IT Company approximately $207 million 
over the course of five years in return for IT services (the “New IT Contract”).   As additional 
consideration, the IT Company agreed to pay Delphi $20 million at the time the New IT Contract 
was signed.  Delphi agreed to repay the $20 million to the IT Company over five years.  
Although the $20 million was to be repaid and related to a new contract, Delphi improperly 
accounted for the payment as income (reduction of recorded IT expenses) in the fourth quarter of 
2001.   
       Doyle was the lead client executive at the IT Company responsible for negotiating the 
terms of the New IT Contract, including the $20 million payment.  He also signed an inaccurate 
and incomplete side letter on behalf of the IT Company, that allowed Delphi to mislead its 
auditors about the true nature of the $20 million payment. 

                                                 
2
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                               2 
                                                 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

               2.           Doyle’s Understanding of Delphi’s Scheme 

       From early in his discussions with Delphi concerning the New IT Contract, Doyle 
understood that Delphi sought a payment of $20 million that it could book as income in the 
fourth quarter of 2001.  Doyle understood that because the payment was to be repaid and tied to 
the New IT Contract, it would be improper for Delphi to immediately record the $20 million as 
income.   

               3.      Doyle’s Role in Signing the Inaccurate and Incomplete Side Letter 

       Delphi asked the IT Company to enter into a side letter documenting the $20 million 
payment.  Doyle, on behalf of the IT Company, signed a side letter with Delphi that described 
the terms of the $20 million payment in an inaccurate and incomplete way.  In order to account 
for the $20 million as income, Delphi wanted to mislead its auditors into believing that it was 
receiving the $20 million as a nonrefundable rebate on payments it had previously made to the IT 
Company, in connection with the Existing IT Agreements.  Conversely, to support its own 
accounting for the $20 million payment, the IT Company wanted its own auditors to understand 
the true terms of the payment: that it was to be repaid over five years and that it was linked 
directly to the New IT Contract.  Doyle came to understand, from others, that in order for both 
companies to accomplish their accounting goals, they would need to draft a vague side letter.  
The side letter that Doyle ultimately signed on behalf of the IT Company deliberately omitted 
any reference to the New IT Contract.  Instead it stated that the payment was related to the 
companies’ “ongoing business relationship.”  The letter also omitted any reference to the fact 
that Delphi had to repay the $20 million. 

               4.      Delphi’s improper accounting 

       Delphi improperly accounted for the $20 million payment as a reduction of recorded IT 
expenses (effectively income) in the fourth quarter of 2001.  Based on the intent of the parties 
and substance of the agreements, GAAP required that Delphi record the transaction as a liability 
to the IT Company at the time the companies executed the New IT Contract and the side letter.  3
                                                                                                  
As a result of its improper accounting, Delphi overstated its fourth quarter 2001 earnings per 
share, as reported in its Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2001, by approximately 2 
cents or 24%. 

       C.     Conclusion 

       As a result of the conduct described above, Doyle was a cause of Delphi’s violations of 
Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-1 promulgated thereunder, which 
require reporting companies to file accurate annual reports with the Commission. 

       Also, as a result of the conduct described above, Doyle was a cause of Delphi’s violations 
of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to make and 
                                                 
3
       Statement of Financial Accounting Concept Statement No.6 – Elements of Financial Statements, ¶¶ 35 – 
40. 

                                                3 
                                                 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

keep books, records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their 
transactions and dispositions of their assets.  

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Doyle’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that Respondent Doyle cease and desist from 
causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-1 promulgated thereunder.  

       By the Commission. 

 
 
 
                                            Nancy M. Morris  
                                            Secretary  

                                               4 
                                                 
