---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 
 UNITED                                  STATES OF AMERICA 
 before                                            the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 55359 / February 27, 2007 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2566 / February 27, 2007 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12575 
                                              
      :  
 :                                                    
 :                                                     
       In the Matter of                      :             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                   :             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
                            Robert A. Ness, Jr.,                 :             102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                   :             PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
            Respondent.                  :     IMPO         SING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                          :      
                                          :      
____________________________________ :              
                                                      
 
                                                I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Robert 
A. Ness, Jr., (“Respondent” or “Ness”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1
            
                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                  
                                               II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in paragraph 3 of Section III below, which are admitted, 
Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to 
Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
        
                     1.           Ness, age 42, passed the Certified Public Accountant (“CPA”) examination 
in the State of Washington, and received a certificate allowing him to use the title CPA-Inactive, but 
has never been a licensed CPA.  He served as Controller of Metropolitan Mortgage & Securities 
Co., Inc. (“Metropolitan”) from 2001 until his termination in April 2004. 
        
                     2.           Metropolitan was, at all relevant times, a closely-held Washington 
corporation with its principal place of business in Spokane, Washington that was engaged in the 
business of originating high-risk commercial real estate loans and selling real estate.  While all of 
Metropolitan’s common stock was held by former CEO C. Paul Sandifur, Jr. (“Sandifur”) or his 
family, Metropolitan registered debt securities and preferred stock with the Commission pursuant to 
Sections 12(b) and 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”).  Metropolitan 
listed its securities on the Pacific Exchange and the American Stock Exchange until both exchanges 
delisted the securities in December 2003.  Metropolitan had its registrations revoked pursuant to 
Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act on January 27, 2006.  On February 4, 2004, Metropolitan filed 
for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in United States Bankruptcy Court in the Eastern District of Washington.  
Metropolitan’s assets are currently being liquidated. 
 
                     3.           On September 26, 2005, the Commission filed a complaint against Ness in 
SEC v. Robert A. Ness, et al. (Civil Action No. 2:05-CV-1631).  On February 2, 2007, the court 
entered an order permanently enjoining Ness, by consent, from future violations of Section 17(a) of 
the Securities Act of 1933, Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 13a-
14, 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder, and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder.    
        
                         4.           The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Ness, at the 
direction of Metropolitan’s former President and Chief Executive Officer, approved the use of an 
accounting treatment that did not comply with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
(“GAAP”).  The inappropriate accounting treatment recognized the full gain on several sales of 

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

real estate immediately, when one or more of the criteria required by GAAP had not been met.  
To facilitate the real estate sales Metropolitan had financed all or nearly all of the sales prices to 
the buyers.  Under GAAP, recognition of the full gain on these real estate sales was not permitted 
until various criteria were met including, that the buyers make their own substantial initial down 
payments demonstrating their commitments to pay for the properties.  Despite this, Ness approved 
the immediate recognition of the full gain for the transactions even though he knew, or was 
reckless in not knowing, that such accounting treatment was a departure from GAAP and contrary 
to the advice Metropolitan had received from its auditor.  The fraudulently recorded income from 
the transactions allowed Metropolitan to report a net profit for the third fiscal quarter of 2002 and 
the 2002 fiscal year instead of a net loss. 
  
        
                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
              A.          Ness is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
              B.          After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                                         (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight      Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Respondent, or the registered                          public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                                                  3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

   (c) Respondent has resolved all di                                sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
   (d) Respondent acknowledges                                   his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
 
      
        C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant provided that his state 
CPA license is current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable 
state boards of accountancy.  The Commission will consider an application by Respondent 
to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer, or a 
person responsible for the preparation or review, of any public company’s financial 
statements that are filed with the Commission provided that his state CPA license or 
certificate is current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable 
state boards of accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by 
the Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

                                                       4 
