---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                            STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                     the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  55416 / March 7, 2007 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2573 / March 7, 2007 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12585 

                                            ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
In the Matter of                            DESIST PROCEEDINGS, MAKING 
                                            FINDINGS AND IMPOSING A CEASE-
      NORTHWESTERN                          AND-DESIST ORDER PURSUANT TO 
      CORPORATION,                          SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                            EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Respondent. 

                                          I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against NorthWestern Corporation 
(“NorthWestern” or “Respondent”).  

                                         II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to 
Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1
                                                                                that: 

                                           Summary 

       During the first three quarters of 2002, NorthWestern filed quarterly and current reports 
with the Commission that materially misstated NorthWestern’s financial position and 
misrepresented or did not disclose required information about its non-utility businesses, Expanets, 
Inc. (“Expanets”) and Blue Dot Services, Inc. (“Blue Dot”).  In its filings, after the effect of taxes, 
NorthWestern overstated its income from continuing operations for the first three quarters of 2002 
by approximately 176%, 618%, and 109%, respectively, due to the company’s improper accounting 
for accounts receivable, adjustments to customers’ bills, and allocation of losses to minority 
interests.  NorthWestern also misrepresented or did not disclose, among other things, the effects of 
significant problems with Expanets’ new information technology system, the material impact of 
Expanets’ reserve reductions and its receipt of non-compete payments on Expanets’ income, large 
intercompany advances NorthWestern made to support Expanets and Blue Dot, and the timing of 
anticipated payments from the sale of certain utility assets.  Through its financial misstatements, 
misrepresentations, and omissions, NorthWestern obscured the continuing poor performance of its 
subsidiaries at a time when it was publicly relying on these subsidiaries’ operations to strengthen its 
financial condition. 

                                        Respondent 

       1.     NorthWestern, a Delaware corporation with its principal executive offices in Sioux 
Falls, South Dakota, operates a regulated utility business in South Dakota, Nebraska, and Montana.  
During the period of conduct discussed herein, NorthWestern consolidated the financial results of 
two non-utility entities, Expanets and Blue Dot.  NorthWestern’s common stock was registered 
with the Commission under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and traded on the New York Stock 
Exchange until it was delisted shortly before NorthWestern declared bankruptcy in September 
2003.  In November 2004, NorthWestern emerged from bankruptcy.  Its common stock is now 
registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and trades on the 
NASDAQ Global Select Market. 

                                    Other Relevant Entities 

       2.     Expanets, formerly headquartered in Englewood, Colorado, was formed by 
NorthWestern in 1997 and provided networked telecommunications equipment and services to 
medium-sized businesses nationwide.  NorthWestern wrote off substantially all of its investment in 
Expanets during the fourth quarter of 2002 as disclosed in the company’s 2002 Form 10-K and 
announced its intention to sell Expanets in April 2003.  In the second quarter of 2003, Expanets’ 

       1 
        The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding 
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                               2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

operations were discontinued, and in May 2004, Expanets (n/k/a Netexit) filed for Chapter 11 
bankruptcy protection. Proceeds from the sale of Expanets’ assets were distributed in bankruptcy.  

       3.     Blue Dot, formerly headquartered in Sunrise, Florida, and Sioux Falls, South 
Dakota, was formed by NorthWestern in 1997 and provided heating, ventilation and air 
conditioning (“HVAC”) services nationwide.  NorthWestern wrote off substantially all of its 
investment in Blue Dot during the fourth quarter of 2002 as disclosed in the company’s 2002 Form 
10-K and announced its intention to sell Blue Dot in April 2003.  In the second quarter of 2003, 
Blue Dot’s operations were discontinued, and NorthWestern thereafter sold or closed each of Blue 
Dot’s HVAC businesses. 

                                         Background 

       4.   For more than seventy years, NorthWestern operated a public utility business, 
providing electricity and natural gas to customers in South Dakota and Nebraska.  In the late 
1990s, NorthWestern formed Expanets and Blue Dot (the “non-utility businesses”) to diversify into 
the telecommunications and HVAC sectors.  NorthWestern’s business plan was to acquire small 
telecommunications and HVAC companies and make them more profitable through central 
management, national branding and other economies of scale. 

       5.   From 1998 through the end of 2001, Expanets acquired twenty-six small 
telecommunications companies and a sales division of a large competitor.  From 1997 through the 
end of 2001, Blue Dot acquired over ninety different HVAC and plumbing companies.  By the end 
of 2001, NorthWestern had invested hundreds of millions of dollars in Expanets and Blue Dot to 
make these acquisitions and build those subsidiaries’ central management.  However, Expanets and 
Blue Dot incurred losses during most years and posted only small profits in other years.  Because 
of their performance, Expanets and Blue Dot required investments of substantial amounts of cash 
by NorthWestern. 

       6.   In February 2002, NorthWestern effectively quadrupled its utility customer base by 
acquiring Montana Power Company (“Montana Power”) for approximately $1.1 billion.  
NorthWestern originally financed its acquisition of Montana Power by utilizing, among other 
things, a $720 million acquisition loan.  In March 2002, as part of a debt offering to retire the 
acquisition loan, NorthWestern issued $720 million in the form of senior notes.   

       7.   The magnitude of NorthWestern’s increased debt as a result of the Montana Power 
acquisition threatened the company’s credit ratings.  As a result, NorthWestern announced its 
intention to conduct an equity offering during 2002 to raise approximately $200 million to pay 
down its debt and improve its debt/equity ratios. 

       8.     NorthWestern recognized that improvement in the performance of both Expanets 
and Blue Dot was critical to its planned equity offering.  NorthWestern made public statements that 
both Expanets and Blue Dot would achieve 2002 targeted earnings and begin providing cash to the 
NorthWestern consolidated entity in 2002. 

                                               3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

       9.   NorthWestern conducted its equity offering during the third quarter of 2002, and 
raised approximately $87 million.  Also during the third quarter of 2002, NorthWestern completed 
its registration and exchange of new notes for $720 million of debt it incurred to purchase Montana 
Power. 

       10.  In December 2002, NorthWestern disclosed that significant operational problems at 
Expanets and Blue Dot would materially impact the company’s consolidated year-end financial 
results.  In April 2003, NorthWestern filed its 2002 Form 10-K and simultaneously restated each of 
its Forms 10-Q for the first three quarters of 2002.  NorthWestern’s restated Forms 10-Q corrected 
material misstatements of previously reported financial results relating to Expanets and Blue Dot, 
and disclosed various operational difficulties these subsidiaries experienced throughout 2002.  
NorthWestern’s 2002 Form 10-K further disclosed that the company did not anticipate recovering 
its past investments of hundreds of millions of dollars in Expanets and Blue Dot, and that neither 
entity would generate cash flows in sufficient amounts to provide meaningful contributions to 
service NorthWestern’s debt load.  NorthWestern’s liquidity situation continued to deteriorate until 
the company filed for bankruptcy in September 2003.  NorthWestern stock, which had traded for 
more than $20 per share in early 2002, was trading for less than a dollar by the time NorthWestern 
filed bankruptcy. 

                     Problems Relating to Expanets’ Computer System 

Functionality of the EXPERT System 

       11.  During 2000 and 2001, Expanets developed an information technology system, called 
the “EXPERT” system, to serve as a platform for virtually all of its operations, including sales, 
inventory, project management, billing, collections and financial statement preparation.  Because 
of its planned scope and impact across operations, the functionality of the EXPERT system was 
critical to Expanets. 

       12.  However, following its implementation in November 2001, the EXPERT system was 
unable to perform many of the basic tasks for which it had been designed.  For example, for 
approximately a month after it was implemented, EXPERT could not generate any customer bills.  
From January through May 2002, many customer bills EXPERT generated were incomplete and 
inaccurate. Until approximately September 2002, the EXPERT system also could not properly 
apply cash collected to customer accounts or track the aging of accounts receivable balances.  
These problems materially affected Expanets’ results from operations throughout 2002. 

       13.  NorthWestern’s Forms 10-Q for the first and second quarters of 2002 and associated 
press releases attached to Forms 8-K mischaracterized EXPERT’s billing activities as “fully 
operational” or “operational” and failed to adequately disclose the magnitude of the system’s 
problems and the material impact of those problems on Expanets’ operations.  In its Form 10-Q for 
the third quarter of 2002, NorthWestern disclosed that EXPERT had encountered some problems, 
particularly as to billings and collections, but did not disclose the extent to which these system 
problems had impacted Expanets’ operations.  NorthWestern did not fully and adequately disclose 
the severity of the problems with the EXPERT system and the impact of those problems on 

                                               4

---------------------Page 5---------------------

Expanets’ operations until April 2003 when it filed its 2002 Form 10-K and restated its Forms 10-
Q for the first three quarters of 2002. 

Aged Accounts Receivable 

       14.    In anticipation that some customer accounts might prove uncollectible, Expanets 
maintained a “bad debt” reserve, which had the effect of reducing Expanets’ operating income.  
Prior to its implementation of EXPERT, Expanets calculated its bad debt reserve based on the age 
of uncollected receivables outstanding in a given period.  However, during the first and second 
quarters of 2002, the EXPERT system could not properly apply cash collected from customers to 
their accounts or accurately track the aging of Expanets’ accounts receivable.  As a result, rather 
than considering the age of all of its receivables, Expanets estimated its bad debt reserve based on 
the percentage of revenue that had typically resulted in uncollectible accounts receivable. 

       15.  Expanets’ bad debt reserve in 2002 was inadequate.  As an initial matter, Expanets 
did not make appropriate adjustments for known aged receivables that pre-dated implementation of 
the EXPERT system.   

       16.  Expanets also failed to increase its bad debt reserve despite the markedly increased 
difficulties with collections that resulted from the EXPERT system’s problems.  For example, 
since EXPERT could not apply cash collected to the proper accounts, Expanets could not 
determine from which customers to seek payment, causing uncollected receivables to age further. 

       17.  Beginning in the third quarter of 2002, for the first time, the EXPERT system was able 
to generate accurate accounts receivable aging reports.  These reports demonstrated that Expanets’ 
uncollectible accounts receivable exceeded its existing bad debt reserve by tens of millions of 
dollars. Despite such data, Expanets did not increase its bad debt reserve or directly write off 
uncollectible accounts receivable. 

       18.  In its first and second quarter Forms 10-Q, NorthWestern did not disclose 
information indicating that a loss as a result of its uncollectible accounts receivable was probable 
or reasonably possible.  In its third quarter Form 10-Q, NorthWestern disclosed that the EXPERT 
system’s problems might lead to an increase in Expanets’ bad debt reserve.  However, this 
disclosure was inadequate since NorthWestern knew at that time that Expanets’ bad debt reserve 
was materially insufficient. 

       19.  In December 2002, NorthWestern announced that it anticipated that Expanets would 
take substantial charges in the fourth quarter relating to Expanets’ uncollectible accounts 
receivable. In April 2003, NorthWestern restated its Forms 10-Q for the first three quarters of 
2002 and increased Expanets’ bad debt reserve for each of these periods by approximately $5.2 
million, $5.1 million, and $6.3 million, respectively.   

       20.  As a result of its improper accounting for uncollectible accounts receivable, 
NorthWestern overstated its income from continuing operations by approximately 16%, 19%, and 
39% for the first three quarters of 2002, respectively, as reported in its Forms 10-Q and press 

                                                5

---------------------Page 6---------------------

releases attached to Forms 8-K.  Moreover, in its segment reporting for Expanets, NorthWestern 
understated Expanets’ operating loss by approximately 66% for the first quarter of 2002, and 
overstated Expanets’ operating income by approximately 86% and 270%, respectively, for the 
second and third quarters of 2002. 

Adjustments to Customer Bills 

       21.  As a result of the inaccurate customer bills generated by the EXPERT system, 
Expanets issued partial credits to affected customers.  Expanets recorded these credits as “billing 
adjustments,” which reduced both its revenue and income in the current period.  Since Expanets 
credited customer accounts in periods after it initially recognized revenue from a transaction, 
Expanets maintained a “billing adjustment reserve” for anticipated credits to customer accounts.  
Expanets calculated its billing adjustment reserve based on the revenue it billed, its actual billing 
adjustments during the reporting period, and its evaluation of the aggregate accuracy of its 
customer bills.   

       22.  Because EXPERT generated a significant number of inaccurate and incomplete 
customer bills in the first quarter of 2002, Expanets’ billing adjustments in the first quarter of 2002 
surpassed projected levels of approximately $2 million per month and reached more than $3 
million for March 2002. During the first quarter of 2002, Expanets also internally forecasted that 
EXPERT’s billing accuracy problems would continue for several months.  Still, Expanets 
increased its billing adjustment reserve by a net of only approximately $1.5 million in the first 
quarter of 2002. 

       23.  As EXPERT billings problems persisted during the second quarter of 2002, 
Expanets’ billing adjustments significantly exceeded originally-projected levels and reached 
approximately $6 million for the month of June 2002.  Expanets estimated that its billing 
adjustments would be $13 million higher than it had originally forecasted for the remainder of the 
year.  However, Expanets did not increase its billing adjustment reserve to comport with these 
internal forecasts.  Instead, Expanets reduced its billing adjustment reserve by $2.3 million during 
the second quarter, thereby increasing its operating income by the same amount. 

       24.  For the third quarter of 2002, Expanets’ billing adjustments totaled more than $22 
million, which again significantly exceeded its original and revised projections.  Expanets further 
estimated that, due to a planned correction of a certain category of customer bills, its billing 
adjustments for the fourth quarter would exceed its revised estimates by an additional $3.4 million.  
However, Expanets again did not increase its billing adjustment reserve.  Instead, it reduced this 
reserve by $4 million during the third quarter, which increased Expanets’ operating income by the 
same amount. 

       25.  In December 2002, NorthWestern announced that it anticipated that Expanets would 
take substantial charges in the fourth quarter relating to Expanets’ billing adjustments.  In its April 
2003 restatements for the first three quarters of 2002, NorthWestern acknowledged that it had 
understated its billing adjustment reserve in each of these quarters, and as a result, the company 

                                                6

---------------------Page 7---------------------

reduced reported revenues and income by approximately $18.3 million, $10.1 million, and $5.4 
million, respectively. 

       26.  As a result of its improper accounting for billing adjustments, NorthWestern 
overstated its income from continuing operations by approximately 98%, 46%, and 31% for the 
first three quarters of 2002, respectively, as reported in its Forms 10-Q and press releases attached 
to Forms 8-K.  In its segment reporting for Expanets, NorthWestern understated Expanets’ 
operating loss by approximately 87% for the first quarter of 2002, and overstated Expanets’ 
operating income by approximately 1094% and 164%, respectively, for the second and third 
quarters of 2002. NorthWestern also did not disclose in any of its filings for the first three quarters 
of 2002 that losses resulting from billing adjustments were probable or reasonably possible. 

                               The Quality of Expanets’ Income 

Reserve Reductions 

       27.  During the first three quarters of 2002, Expanets reduced amounts it had recorded in 
at least fourteen of the reserve accounts it maintained on its balance sheet, including the billing 
adjustments reserve account discussed above.  These reductions materially increased Expanets’ 
and NorthWestern’s income. 

       28.  In the first quarter of 2002, $2.6 million of Expanets’ income was derived from 
reserve reductions. This amount reduced by approximately 50% Expanets’ reported segment 
operating loss of approximately $2.7 million and represented approximately 7% of NorthWestern’s 
reported income from continuing operations for that quarter. 

       29.  In the second quarter of 2002, $8.8 million of Expanets’ income was derived from 
reserve reductions. This amount represented approximately 80% of Expanets’ reported segment 
operating income of $11 million and approximately 27% of NorthWestern’s income from 
continuing operations for that quarter. 

       30.    In the third quarter of 2002, $27 million of Expanets’ income was derived from 
reserve reductions. With this income, Expanets was able to report $8.7 million of operating 
income rather than a substantial operating loss. In addition, with this income, NorthWestern was 
able to report $14.6 million of income from continuing operations for that quarter rather than an 
operating loss. 

       31.  NorthWestern’s Forms 10-Q for the first three quarters of 2002 did not disclose the 
material impact that these reserve reductions had on the reported results of operations of 
Expanets and NorthWestern during these periods.  NorthWestern did not disclose the material 
impact of these reserve reductions until April 2003 when it restated its Forms 10-Q for the first 
three quarters of 2002. 

                                               7

---------------------Page 8---------------------

Unusual Transactions 

       32.  In conjunction with Expanets’ acquisition of certain assets of a competitor, Expanets 
agreed that, in exchange for payments from the competitor, Expanets would not solicit specific 
business of the competitor’s customers.  Expanets’ competitor was obligated to make these “non-
compete” type of payments to Expanets until March 2005.  These payments were not characteristic 
of Expanets’ regular operations and therefore represented unusual transactions. 

       33.  In the first quarter of 2002, NorthWestern reported in its segment disclosures that 
Expanets had an operating loss of approximately $2.7 million.  Approximately $9.3 million of 
Expanets’ income came from the non-compete payments.  The $9.3 million also represented 
approximately 25% of NorthWestern’s consolidated income from continuing operations for the 
quarter. 

       34.  In the second quarter of 2002, NorthWestern reported in its segment disclosures that 
Expanets had operating income of approximately $11 million.  Approximately $10 million of 
Expanets’ income came from the non-compete payments.  The $10 million also represented 
approximately 31% of NorthWestern’s consolidated income from continuing operations for the 
quarter. 

       35.  In the third quarter of 2002, NorthWestern reported in its segment disclosures that 
Expanets had operating income of approximately $8.7 million.  Approximately $15.3 million of 
Expanets’ income came from the non-compete payments.  The $15.3 million also represented 
approximately 68% of NorthWestern’s consolidated income from continuing operations for the 
quarter. 

       36.  NorthWestern’s Forms 10-Q for the first three quarters of 2002 did not disclose 
Expanets’ receipt of these unusual non-compete payments and their material effects on Expanets’ 
and NorthWestern’s income.  NorthWestern did not disclose the existence of these non-compete 
payments or their effect until it filed its 2002 Form 10-K and restated its 2002 Forms 10-Q in April 
2003. 

             NorthWestern’s Intercompany Advances to Expanets and Blue Dot 

       37.  EXPERT’s inability to generate any customer bills in late 2001 and early 2002 and 
other billing problems that followed caused Expanets’ cash flow from operations during the first 
quarter of 2002 to be a deficit of approximately $68.7 million.  As a result, NorthWestern provided 
Expanets with significant intercompany advances during the first quarter of 2002 to enable 
Expanets to pay operating and other expenses, including a scheduled amount on a third-party credit 
facility. By the end of the first quarter of 2002, NorthWestern’s intercompany advances to 
Expanets totaled $63.3 million. 

       38.  During the second quarter of 2002, EXPERT’s continuing billing and collections 
problems caused Expanets’ cash collections to lag significantly behind expected levels.  
NorthWestern therefore provided Expanets with additional intercompany advances of 

                                               8

---------------------Page 9---------------------

approximately $50 million to help Expanets pay operating expenses and another scheduled amount 
on a third-party credit facility.  By the end of the second quarter, NorthWestern’s intercompany 
advances to Expanets totaled $113.4 million. 

       39.  Similarly, during the first quarter of 2002, NorthWestern provided Blue Dot with 
approximately $21 million in intercompany advances so that Blue Dot could pay off a large credit 
facility and operating expenses when due.  NorthWestern’s outstanding intercompany advances to 
Blue Dot totaled approximately $37.1 million at the end of the first quarter of 2002.   

       40.  In the second quarter of 2002, Blue Dot paid back some of the cash advanced by 
NorthWestern with proceeds from a one-time sale and leaseback transaction.  Nevertheless, 
NorthWestern’s outstanding intercompany advances to Blue Dot still totaled approximately $22.8 
million at the end of that quarter.   

       41.  NorthWestern’s intercompany advances to Expanets and Blue Dot demonstrated that 
these businesses were continuing to require further investments from the parent company, rather 
than providing cash to the consolidated entity.  NorthWestern’s need to advance funds to Expanets 
and Blue Dot was information that was necessary to understand NorthWestern’s financial 
condition and was reasonably likely to impact NorthWestern’s liquidity.     

       42.  NorthWestern’s Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2002 did not disclose 
NorthWestern’s intercompany advances to Expanets or Blue Dot, or the significance of those 
advances.  NorthWestern disclosed in its Form 10-Q for the second quarter of 2002 that it made 
intercompany advances to Expanets.  However, NorthWestern still did not disclose its 
intercompany advances to Blue Dot or any information about the significance of the intercompany 
advances to either subsidiary.  NorthWestern did not disclose the existence and amount of its 
intercompany advances until September 2002. 

                      Allocation of Losses to Blue Dot Minority Interests 

       43.  When Blue Dot acquired other businesses, it paid the former owners in part with Blue 
Dot common stock.  As a result of these transactions, the former owners held minority interests in 
Blue Dot.  NorthWestern allocated a portion of Blue Dot’s losses to these minority interests, which 
had the effect of increasing NorthWestern’s consolidated income from continuing operations.  This 
accounting treatment was proper only to the extent that the losses applicable to the Blue Dot 
minority interest did not exceed the minority interest in the equity capital of Blue Dot. 

       44.  Before it filed its financial statements for the second quarter of 2002, NorthWestern 
received a third-party appraisal of Blue Dot for the purpose of assessing Blue Dot’s enterprise 
value.  Based on the total value of the Blue Dot entity as reflected in the appraisal, Blue Dot’s 
common stock was worthless.  

       45.  Despite this information, in its financial statements for the second quarter of 2002, 
NorthWestern allocated $8.1 million of Blue Dot’s losses to minority interests based on stock 
issued for acquisitions Blue Dot made that quarter.  In addition, NorthWestern failed to disclose in 

                                               9

---------------------Page 10---------------------

its second quarter Form 10-Q the material effects of the decrease in value of Blue Dot common 
stock, or any uncertainties about NorthWestern’s ability to allocate losses to Blue Dot minority 
interests. 

       46.  Because of its improper allocation of losses to minority interests, NorthWestern 
reported income from continuing operations of approximately $20.9 million rather than $12.8 
million, an overstatement of approximately 63%, in its Form 10-Q for the second quarter of 2002 
and a press release attached to a Form 8-K.  NorthWestern reversed its allocation of losses to Blue 
Dot’s minority interests when it restated its second quarter 2002 Form 10-Q in April 2003. 

                                The Colstrip Utility Asset Sale 

       47.  In February 2002, when NorthWestern purchased Montana Power, NorthWestern 
became the successor-in-interest to a contract for the sale of certain assets known as the “Colstrip” 
transmission assets (“Colstrip assets”).  The contract called for a payment of approximately $97 
million to NorthWestern upon the satisfaction of certain conditions.  During the second quarter of 
2002, NorthWestern announced that it expected to collect the proceeds from the sale of the Colstrip 
assets by June or July 2002.   

       48.  Throughout 2002, the sale of the Colstrip assets was significant to NorthWestern 
because it would have generated significant cash for the company and enhanced its liquidity 
position. Accordingly, analysts and rating agencies tracked the status of the sale. 

       49.  Between May and July 2002, the other party to the Colstrip assets sale contract 
repeatedly informed NorthWestern that it would not close the sale until the parties were able to 
resolve other claims.  On August 5, 2002, NorthWestern filed but did not serve a complaint against 
this party in a Montana State court.  

       50.  NorthWestern’s Form 10-Q for the second quarter of 2002 did not disclose the 
Colstrip asset sale dispute and its potential impact on NorthWestern’s financial condition, 
including its impact on NorthWestern’s liquidity.  On September 4, 2002, NorthWestern served its 
complaint on the other party to the Colstrip sale and subsequently disclosed the existence of its 
lawsuit in its third quarter Form 10-Q.  In May 2005, NorthWestern settled the lawsuit by agreeing 
to retain the Colstrip assets in exchange for, among other things, a $9 million payment from the 
other party. 

                                               Violations 

       51.  Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-11, and 
13a-13 require issuers to make and keep accurate books, records, and accounts, to file quarterly 
and current reports with the Commission, and to keep reported information current and not 
misleading.  As a result of the conduct described above, NorthWestern violated Sections 13(a) and 
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder. 

                                               10

---------------------Page 11---------------------

       52.  Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to devise and maintain a 
system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles.  As a result of the conduct described above, 
NorthWestern violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. 

                                              IV. 
       In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts 
promptly undertaken by Respondent and cooperation afforded the Commission staff. 

                                              V. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent NorthWestern’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that Respondent cease and desist from committing or 
causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of 
the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder.  

 By       the Commission. 

       N                                             ancy M. Morris
       S                                            ecretary 

                                              11

