---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                          Before the 

                     SECURITIES  AND EXCHANGE  COMMISSION 


 SECURITIES  EXCHANGE  ACT OF 1934 
 Release No.  53725 / April 26,2006 

 ACCOUNTING  AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
 Release No.  2421 / April 26,2006 

 ADMINISTRATIVE  PROCEEDING 
 File No.  3-12278 

                                                  ORDER  INSTITUTING  PUBLIC 
                                                  ADMINISTRATIVE  PROCEEDINGS 
In the Matter  of                                 PURSUANT TO RULE  102(e) OF THE 
                                                  COMMISSION'S  RULES OF 
CHAIM SCHWARTZBAKD,  CPA                          PRACTICE,  MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
(Israel),                                         IMPOSING  REMEDIAL  SANCTIONS 

Respondent. 
                                          I 

       The Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission")  deems it appropriate that 
public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Chaim Schwartzbard, 
CPA  ("Respondent"  or "Schwartzbard")  pursuant to Rule 102(e)(l)(ii)  of the Commission's  Rules 
of Practice.' 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the "Offer") which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission,  or to which the Commission  is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission's  jurisdiction  over him and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 

        I 
          Rule  102(e)(l)(ii)  provides,  in pertinent  part. that: 

 'I'he Commission  may . . . deny, temporarily  or permanently.  the privilege  of appearing  or practicing  before  it. . . to 
 any person who is found . . . to have engaged  in unethical or improper  professional  conduct. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Administrative  Proceedings Pursuant  to Rule  102(e) of the Commission's  Rules of Practice, 
Making Findings, and imposing  Remedial Sanctions ("Order"),  as set forth below. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent's  Offer, the Commission  finds2 that: 

A.     SUMMARY 

       This matter concerns improper professional conduct within the meaning of Rule 
102(e)(l)(ii)  of the Commission's  Rules of Practice by Schwartzbard in connection with two 
transactions  between Lumenis Ltd. ("Lumenis"),  an Israeli manufacturer,  and its largest U.S. 
distributor  ("the Distributor").  From 1999 to May 2004, Deloitte & Touche Brightman Almagor 
("Brightman  Almagor")  served as Lumenis'  outside auditor, and Schwartzbard was the audit 
engagement partner.  In late 2001 and during 2002, Schwartzbard engaged in repeated instances of 
unreasonable  conduct that resulted in violations of applicable professional  standards.  First, in 
connection with a transaction  in which Lumenis improperly recognized a total of $1.1 million in 
revenue in the quarters ended December 3 1,2001  and March 3 1,2002,  Schwartzbard,  among 
other things, failed to make the inquiries or employ the necessary procedures to determine 
whether Lumenis'  revenue recognition  comported with generally accepted accounting principles 
("GAAP"),  and as such violated the applicable generally accepted auditing standards ("GAAS"). 
Second, in connection with a transaction  in mid-2002 that resulted in Lumenis'  improper 
recognition  of $4 million in revenue, Schwartzbard, among other things, negligently failed to 
exercise due professional  care and professional  skepticism in reporting on Lumenis'  financial 
statements for the quarter ended June 30,2002.  As a result of his improper professional conduct, 
the Commission  is denying Schwartzbard the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission  as an accountant, provided that he may apply for reinstatement  after three years. 

B.     RESPONDENT 

       Chaim Schwartzbard, age 50, is an audit partner at Brightman Almagor, an Israeli member 
firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu.  Schwartzbard is a citizen of Israel and an Israeli certified 
public accountant ("CPA").  From  1999 to May 2004, Brightman Almagor was Lumenis'  outside 
auditor, and Schwartzbard was the audit engagement partner.  The services provided by 
Brightman Almagor included annual audits and quarterly reviews of the Lumenis financial 
statements to be conducted in accordance with GAAS. 

           The findings  herein  are made pursuant  to Respondent's  Offer of Settlement  and are not binding  on any 
 other person  or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

1           C.      FACTS 

                    1.     Background 

                           a.      Lumenis is an Israeli corporation with its headquarters in Yokneam, Israel 
            that designs and manufactures laser and light based systems for aesthetic, surgical and other 
            applications.  Lumenis maintains manufacturing facilities and other operations in the United 
            States.  During the relevant period, Lumenis'  stock was registered with the Commission pursuant 
            to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Lumenis'  fiscal year ends on December 
            31. 

                           b.      Brightman Almagor is the Israeli member firm of Deloitte Touche 
            Tohmatsu.  From  1999 to 2004, Brightman Almagor was engaged by Lumenis to audit Lumenis' 
            operations.  During the same time period, Brightman Almagor engaged Deloitte     & Touche LLP 
            ("Deloitte USA"), a subsidiary of Deloitte &  Touche USA LLP, to audit Lumenis'  U.S. 
            operations.  Deloitte & Touche USA LLP is the U.S. member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu. 

                           c.      During  1999 through May 2004, Brightman Almagor audited and reviewed 
            financial statements that were included in filings made with the Commission on Forms  10-K and 
            Forms  10-Q by Lumenis. 

                    2.     The  $1 Million  Transaction 

                           a.      Lumenis improperly recognized a total of $1.1 million in revenue in its 
            Form 10-K for the year ended December     31,200 1 filed with the Commission on April 17,2002 
            and its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 3 1,2002  filed with the Commission  on May 15, 
            2002, in connection with a transaction with the Distributor in late 2001. 

                           b.      Throughout  1998, 1999 and 2000, the Distributor amassed a large debt to 
            Lumenis.  By the beginning of 2001, the Distributor owed Lumenis over $3.5 million in overdue 
            accounts payable.  In February 2001, Lumenis began requiring the Distributor to pay for its orders 
            via credit card.  In connection with a new distribution agreement the parties entered "as of' 
            December   3 1, 2001, Lumenis forgave the entire amount the Distributor owed it.  As part of the 
            agreement, Lumenis required the Distributor to place a $1 million order for Lumenis products.  At 
            the same time, Lumenis also agreed to "loan" the Distributor $1.25 million. 

                           c.      The $1.25 million loan primarily was intended to serve two purposes: 
            $250,000 was to be used by the Distributor to pay for taxes resulting from the forgiveness of the 
            payables, and the remaining  $1 million permitted the Distributor to purchase $1 million of 
            Lumenis products in what amounted to a transaction lacking economic substance. 

                           d.      Schwartzbard was aware that only $250,000    of the $1.25 million loan 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

was to be used for taxes.  A December 20,2001  document sent to Schwartzbard  described the 
deal as a $1 million loan to the Distributor with the Distributor required to purchase not less than 
$1 million in equipment at closing, and a $250,000 loan for taxes.  In subsequent emails between 
Schwartzbard and Lumenis, Schwartzbard acknowledged that there was a connection between the 
loan and the expected $1 million purchase, and expressed concerns that this may cause a revenue 
recognition issue. 

               e.      Lumenis took steps in late December 2001 to hide the fact that $1 
million of the loan was provided in connection with the Distributor's  purchase of an identical 
amount of Lumenis products.  Lumenis deleted from the distribution agreement references to the 
requirement that the Distributor purchase $1 million in products, though the Distributor in fact 
placed such an order at the time that it entered the agreement.  Lumenis also began to claim that 
the entire $1.25 million loan, and not just  $250.000 of the loan, was for taxes the Distributor 
would incur as a result of the forgiveness  of the payables.  Schwartzbard accepted management's 
revised representation that the entire loan was to be used for taxes without further inquiry or 
testing.  Notwithstanding  the link between the loan and the Distributor order, Lumenis recognized 
a combined $1.1 million from this purchase as revenue in the fourth quarter of 2001 and the first 
quarter of 2002.  Schwartzbard did not raise any objection to the revenue recognition. 

               f.      Lumenis'  recognition of $1.1 million in revenue in connection with this 
transaction was not in conformity with GAAP because, among other things, the transaction lacked 
economic substance.  As a result, the Lumenis financial statements published in its Form  10-K for 
the year ended December   3 1,2001  filed with the Commission on April 17,2002  and its Form 10- 
Q for the quarter ended March  3 1,2002  filed with the Commission on May 15,2002  were 
materially misstated. 

       3.      The  $4 Million Transaction 

               a.      A $4 million transaction at the close of the quarter ended June 30, 2002 
resulted in revenue recognition in Lumenis7 Form 10-Q filed with the Commission on August  15, 
2002 that did not comport with GAAP. 

               b.      As the second quarter of 2002 was coming to a close, Lumenis contacted 
the Distributor and requested that it place a $4 million order under a special arrangement.  Instead 
of requiring the Distributor to pay for the products pursuant to the terms of the new distribution 
agreement, Lumenis offered the Distributor extended payment terms, including $2 million being 
due in 270 days, to facilitate the Distributor's  ability to resell the products to pay for the goods. 
The Distributor agreed to the terms.  It was the largest order the Distributor had ever placed with 
Lumenis, 

               c.      On August 2,2002,  prior to the filing of Lumenis'  second quarter 2002 
financial statements, Deloitte USA notified Schwartzbard that it needed to consult with the 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

Deloitte USA national office to determine if a clause in the Distributor's  distribution agreement 
constituted a revenue incentive that would require a reduction in the amount of reported 
Distributor revenue.  On August  3, Schwartzbard, without waiting to learn the results of the 
consultation between Deloitte USA and its national office, approved the Lumenis'  publication of a 
press release announcing the second quarter  2002  financial results.  The release announced 
revenue of $92.2  million, including $4 million from the Distributor transaction, and stated that 
Lumenis'  revenue was in line with previous revenue guidance of    $90-95 million.  Lumenis'  stock 
price, which had been declining steadily, more than doubled in the days following the release, 
jumping  from  $3.19 per share on August  5 to $6.55 per share on August  26, 2002. 

               d.      On August   12,2002,  Deloitte USA informed Schwartzbard of its 
conclusions that (1) Lumenis needed an independent third party valuation to determine if the 
clause in the Distributor's  distribution agreement constituted a revenue incentive requiring a 
reduction in revenue and  (2) recognition of revenue on sales to the Distributor should be deferred 
until the Distributor sold the products to end users.  With respect to the latter point, Deloitte USA 
stated that revenue should not be recognized when products were sold to the Distributor because 
Lumenis had forgiven the Distributor's  payables that had been earned in the normal course of 
business under the previous distribution agreement.  Deloitte USA also stated its conclusion to 
defer sales revenue was based on the fact that the Distributor did not appear to be a viable entity 
without Lumenis'  business. 

               e.      On August   13,2002,  Schwartzbard emailed a senior Lumenis executive 
and informed him that after discussions with Deloitte USA, both he and Deloitte USA had 
concerns with respect to the revenue incentive issue, the waiver of debt issue and the viability of 
the Distributor without Lumenis business.  Schwartzbard requested that Lumenis provide him 
with substantial information to resolve these outstanding issues, and also requested that the issues 
be discussed with the Lumenis audit committee.    By  August  15, Lumenis had not provided the 
requested information to Schwartzbard.  Despite this, Schwartzbard authorized the release of a 
review report signed by him for use in the Form   10-Q Lumenis filed with the Commission that 
day.  The financial statements included with the Form   10-Q  improperly recognized the entire  $4 
million order as revenue in the second quarter of 2002. 

               f.      Lumenis'  recognition of $4 million in revenue in connection with this 
transaction violated GAAP because, among other things, collectability from the Distributor was 
not reasonably assured, and as such Lumenis materially misstated its financial statements 
published in its Form 10-Q  filed with the Commission on August    15, 2002. 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       4. 	    Schwartzbard Engaged in Improper Professional 

               Conduct Within the Meaning of Rule 102(e) 


               a.     Rule  102(e)(l)(ii)  of the Commission's  Rules of Practice provides, in part, 
that the Commission may censure or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing 
or practicing before the Commission to any person who is found by the Commission to have 
engaged in improper professional conduct.  Rule 102(e)(l)(iv)  defines improper professional 
conduct with respect to persons licensed to practice as accountants.  As applicable here, improper 
professional conduct means "[rlepeated  instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a 
violation of applicable professional  standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice 
before the Commission."  Rule 102(e)(l)(iv)(B)(2).  As stated below, Schwartzbard acted 
unreasonably in failing to require Lumenis to comply with GAAP and in failing to comply with 
GAAS during Brightman Almagor's  audit and reviews of Lumenis'  2001 and first and second 
quarter 2002 financial statements. 

               b.     GAAS requires that auditors conducting an audit exercise due professional 
care and maintain a proper level of professional skepticism. Codification of Statements on 
Auditing Standards (2001) ("AU") AU     5 230.01; AU  5 230.07.  Auditing standards also require 
auditors to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to afford a reasonable basis for an 
opinion regarding the financial statements under audit. AU  5 326.01; AU  5  326.21; AU   5 
326.22.  Under GAAS, representations  from management are not a substitute for the application 
of auditing procedures necessary to afford a reasonable basis for the auditor's  opinion. AU 5 
333.02.  An auditor has a responsibility to perform an audit to obtain reasonable assurance that 
material misstatements in  financial statements due to fraud are detected.  AU 5 316.0 1. 

               c.     GAAS requires that auditors "state whether the financial statements are 
presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles." AU    5 41 0.01. 
"Generally accepted accounting principles recognize the importance of reporting transactions and 
events in accordance with their substance.  The auditor should consider whether the substance of 
transactions or events differs materially from their form." AU 5 41 1.06.  An auditor can issue an 
audit report with an unqualified opinion only if he has conducted the audit in accordance with 
GAAS.  AU    5 508.07. 

               d.     GAAS also requires an independent accountant to both consider matters 
that have required adjustments in prior years and quarters and the consistency of management's 
responses relative to other inquiries and procedures performed.  AU  5 722.13. 

               e.     In connection with interim reviews of financial statements, if "the 
accountant becomes aware of information that leads him or her to question whether the interim 
financial information to be reported conforms with generally accepted accounting principles, the 
accountant should make additional inquiries or employ other procedures he or she considers 
appropriate to provide the limited assurance for a review engagement." AU   5 722.1 8. 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

               f.      By accepting management's  representations  regarding the purpose of the 
$1 million loan described above without further inquiry, despite knowledge of seemingly 
contradictory information,  Schwartzbard failed to exercise due professional care and maintain a 
proper level of professional  skepticism.  Schwartzbard further violated GAAS by failing to make 
the inquiries or employ the necessary procedures to determine whether Lumenis'     $1.1 million in 
revenue recognition  in connection with this late 2001 transaction  comported with GAAP. 
Schwartzbard failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to afford a reasonable basis 
for his opinion regarding the financial statements at issue. 

               g.      Schwartzbard's  failure to obtain a complete understanding of the  $4 
million, end of second quarter of 2002 Distributor  sales transaction  and failure to properly assess 
the Distributor revenue incentive, viability and past debt forgiveness issues constituted  a failure to 
exercise due professional  care and maintain a proper level of professional  skepticism. 
Schwartzbard violated GAAS when he signed the Brightman Almagor review report and allowed 
the use of the firm's  name to be associated with Lumenis'  financial statements for the quarter 
ended June 30,2002.  Schwartzbard violated GAAS by not exercising due professional  care and 
professional  skepticism  in reporting on Lumenis'  June 30, 2002 financial statements.  Finally, 
Schwartzbard was negligent in not knowing that recognition of the    $4 million did not comport 
with GAAP and in not knowing that additional procedures were needed to determine whether 
Lumenis'  quarterly financial statements were materially misstated. 

       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Schwartzbard engaged in improper 
professional  conduct pursuant to Rule 102(e)(l)(ii)  of the Commission's  Rules of Practice by 
engaging in repeated instances of unreasonable  conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable 
professional  standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice before the Commission. 

                                                IV. 

A.     Ongoing  -Cooperation Undertakin~s 

       In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission  further considered the following 
efforts voluntarily undertaken by Respondent: 

       Respondent  shall cooperate fully with the Commission  in any and all investigation, 
litigation or other proceeding relating to or arising from the matters described in the Order.  In 
connection with such cooperation, Respondent has undertaken: 

               1.      To appear and be interviewed by Commission  staff, subject to the 
privileges and protections  available under the attorney-client privilege and attorney work-product 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

protections, at such reasonable times and places as the staff requests upon reasonable notice; 

               2.      To accept service by mail or facsimile transmission  of notices or 
subpoenas issued by the Commission for documents or testimony at depositions, hearings, or 
trials, or in connection with any related investigation by Commission staff; 

               3.      To appoint Stephen  M.  Sacks, Esq. as agent to receive service of 
such notices and subpoenas; 

               4.      With respect to such notices and subpoenas, to waive the territorial 
limits on service contained in Rule 45 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and any applicable 
local rules, provided that the party requesting the testimony reimburses Respondent's  travel, 
lodging, and subsistence expenses at the then-prevailing U.S. Government per diem rates; and 

               5.      To consent to personal jurisdiction  over Respondent in any United 
States District Court for purposes of enforcing any such subpoena. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent's  Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.      Schwartzbard is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant. 

       B.      After three years from the date of this Order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission as: 

               1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company's  financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such an 
application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent's  work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 

               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 

                       a.     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board ("Board") in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of    2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                       b.     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board or an equivalent Israeli organization acceptable to 
the Chief Accountant of the Commission and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of or 
potential defects in the respondent's  or the firm's  quality control system that would indicate that 
the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                       c.     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board or 
equivalent Israeli organization, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions 
imposed (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                       d.     Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Respondent 
appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards. 

       C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his CPA license is current and he has resolved 
all other disciplinary issues with the applicable boards of accountancy.  However, if CPA 
licensure is dependant on reinstatement  by the Commission, the Commission will consider an 
application on  its other merits.  The Commission's  review may include consideration of, in 
addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent's  character, 
integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

       By the Commission. 

                                                     Nancy  M.  Morris 
                                                     Secretary 
