---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                              STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                       the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 51946 / June 30, 2005 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2269 / June 30, 2005 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-11970 
                                              ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                              ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
                                              PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
In the Matter of                              COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                              MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
      KPMG LLP,                               REMEDIAL SANCTIONS  
            Gary Bentham, C.A. and 
            John Gordon, C.A., 
 
Respondents. 
 
 
 
 
                                          
                                            I. 
                                             
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against KPMG LLP, a limited 
liability partnership organized under the laws of Ontario, Canada, (“KPMG Canada”), Gary 
Bentham (“Bentham”) and John Gordon (“Gordon”) (collectively “the Respondents”) pursuant 
to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.1
                                             
                                           II. 
                                             
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, the Respondents have each 
submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  
Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of 
                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
      The Commission may censure a person or deny, temporarily or permanently, the 
      privilege of appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have 
      engaged in . . . improper professional conduct. 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, the Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                             III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds2
                                                                                 that: 
 
A. SUMMARY 
 
        KPMG Canada, Bentham and Gordon lacked professional independence when they 
audited Southwestern Water Exploration Co.’s (“Southwestern”) fiscal year 1999 through 2002 
financial statements.  Specifically, in each year, after KPMG Canada prepared certain of 
Southwestern’s basic accounting records and financial statements, it issued a purportedly 
independent audit report on those financial statements.  KPMG Canada’s audit reports were 
included in Southwestern’s public filings with the Commission.   
 
       Bentham, the audit engagement partner, authorized accountants employed by KPMG 
Canada to provide the bookkeeping services to Southwestern and supervised the work.  Gordon, 
the concurring and SEC reviewing partner, was informed that KPMG Canada was preparing 
certain of Southwestern’s basic accounting records and financial statements, yet he concurred in 
the issuance of the audit reports as concurring partner and did not require KPMG Canada to 
withhold its audit reports as SEC reviewing partner.  KPMG Canada issued purportedly 
independent audit reports in spite of the bookkeeping work it performed.  KPMG Canada, 
Bentham and Gordon thereby violated the auditor independence requirements imposed by the 
Commission’s rules and guidance and by generally accepted auditing standards (“GAAS”) in the 
United States.  Moreover, KPMG Canada lacked adequate policies and procedures to prevent 
and detect the independence problem that occurred with Southwestern.  Accordingly, KPMG 
Canada, Bentham and Gordon engaged in improper professional conduct within the meaning of 
Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
B. RESPONDENTS 
 
    1.  KPMG Canada is the Canadian member firm of KPMG International, a Swiss 
cooperative, and is a limited liability partnership headquartered in Toronto, Canada.  KPMG 
Canada is engaged in the business of providing, among other things, accounting and auditing 
services.  KPMG Canada audited Southwestern Water Exploration Co.’s fiscal year 1999 
through 2002 financial statements.  (Southwestern’s fiscal year ends on March 31.)  KPMG 
Canada’s Calgary office audit group also performed bookkeeping services for Southwestern.  
KPMG Canada received $60,148 in fees from the audit and bookkeeping services it performed 
for Southwestern for fiscal years 1999 through 2002.   

                                                 
2
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers and are not binding on any other 
person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                              2
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 2.    Gary Bentham, age 51, a Charted Accountant (“C.A.”) licensed in Saskatchewan and 
Alberta, Canada, was the engagement partner on the Southwestern audits.  Bentham was a 
partner in KPMG Canada’s Calgary office from 1984 to December 2004.  From 1997 to 1999, 
Bentham managed the service industries line of business in KPMG Canada’s Calgary office.  
Bentham managed KPMG Canada’s information, communications, and entertainment practice in 
KPMG Canada’s Calgary office from 2000 until 2004.  Bentham left KPMG Canada in 
December 2004. 
 
 3.      John Gordon, age 48, a C.A. licensed in Alberta, Canada, was the concurring partner 
and SEC reviewing partner on Southwestern’s fiscal year 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002 audits.  He 
has been a partner with KPMG Canada since 1993.   
 
C. RELEVANT  ENTITY 
  
   1.  Southwestern, d/b/a Aqua4, Inc., is a development stage Colorado corporation that 
purports to engage in exploring and producing potable water from deep aquifers in the American 
Southwest.  Southwestern filed for Chapter 7 Bankruptcy on November 20, 2003, and is in the 
process of being liquidated.  
 
D. FACT S 
 
    1.   KPMG Canada Prepared Southwestern’s Fiscal Year 1998 Books, Records and 
       Financial Statements 
 
       Bentham knew that during fiscal year 1998, Southwestern did not have an internal or 
outside accountant prepare its books and records.  Bentham authorized KPMG Canada to prepare 
Southwestern’s books, records and financial statements, and Bentham supervised this work.   
        
       The Business Review workpaper   3
                                        which Bentham initialed stated: 
        
       In previous years it was found that the accounting records of the company were poor.  No 
       records have been kept this year.  [Southwestern’s founder and president/CEO 
       (“Southwestern’s founder”)] is therefore to reconcile the bank and provide complete 
       listings to KPMG [Canada] of cheques issued, from this KPMG [Canada] will prepare the 
       [financial statements].4
                                
        
                                                 
3
 The purpose of the Business Review workpaper is to provide the audit engagement team with 
an understanding of the client’s business sufficient to develop strategies for performing the audit, 
risk management and client service.  This specific workpaper provides general background 
information on Southwestern and explains its business objectives and risks. 
 
4
 Bentham failed to have a concurring/SEC reviewing partner for the 1998 fiscal year audit, in 
violation of KPMG Canada’s policies.  A concurring/SEC reviewing partner typically reviews 
the Business Review workpaper.  A concurring/SEC reviewing partner generally would have 
uncovered the independence problems. 
 

                                              3
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       Specifically, Southwestern did not maintain accounting journals of original entry or a 
general ledger for fiscal year 1998.  Instead, Southwestern’s founder provided KPMG Canada 
with listings of Southwestern’s bank transactions from which the KPMG Canada audit 
engagement staff prepared Southwestern’s books, records and financial statements for the audit.   
        
       The audit engagement senior used the listings of bank transactions Southwestern 
provided to create two summary schedules:  one schedule for Southwestern’s United States 
dollar bank transactions and one schedule for Southwestern’s Canadian dollar bank transactions.  
The audit engagement senior also created a trial balance entitled “Cash Synoptic (in US$)” that 
classified all of the banking transactions and accrual entries for fiscal year 1998.  The auditors 
also recorded Southwestern’s accruals to bring the accounting from a cash to an accrual basis.    
 
    2.   KPMG Canada Prepared Southwestern’s 1999 Fiscal Year Books, Records and 
       Financial Statements 
  
       Bentham knew that Southwestern had no accountant to prepare its books and records in 
fiscal year 1999.  Under Bentham’s supervision and with his participation, KPMG Canada 
accounting staff or audit engagement staff prepared Southwestern’s books, records and quarterly 
and year-end financial statements for fiscal year 1999 from bank statements, summaries of bank 
statements and related party invoices (i.e., source documents) that Southwestern provided.  
KPMG Canada, in consultation with Southwestern’s founder, classified the transactions by 
category of asset, expense, revenue and liability.  For the first three quarters of fiscal year 1999, 
KPMG Canada accounting staff performed the work which KPMG Canada audit engagement 
staff then reviewed.  For the year-end financial statements, KPMG Canada audit engagement 
staff performed the work.   
                       
       Bentham also determined the accounting for, and recorded, certain of Southwestern’s 
stock issuances during the fiscal year 1999 audit.5
                                                   During the audit, based on discussions with 
Southwestern, KPMG Canada recorded 360,000 shares of stock (which Southwestern had failed 
to record) as having been issued for consulting services.  Then, after the financial statements had 
been issued, Southwestern’s founder and Southwestern’s counsel contacted Bentham and told 
him that 60,000 of the 360,000 shares had actually been issued to AIFE Ltd., an entity 
Southwestern’s founder controlled, to satisfy an amount Southwestern owed to AIFE Ltd.  As a 
result, KPMG  Canada prepared restated 1999 year-end financial statements and issued an audit 
report for Southwestern’s amended Form 10-KSB, which was filed with the Commission on 
January 10, 2000.6
                               
 

                                                 
5
 At least since 1997, Bentham was aware of Southwestern’s lack of records regarding stock 
issuances and that KPMG   Canada had to “piece together” the stock issuances.     
 
6
 Gordon was not involved with the audit of Southwestern’s restated financial statements. 
 

                                               4
---------------------Page 5---------------------

   3.  KPMG Canada, Bentham and Gordon Issued an Audit Report for Fiscal Year 1999 
       on the Bookkeeping Work KPMG Canada Performed in Fiscal Years 1998 and 1999 
 
        a.  Gordon becomes the concurring and SEC reviewing partner 
 
       From May 1999 until January 2000, Gordon worked in New York in the Department of 
Professional Practice of KPMG US, 7
                                    which was part of the National Office of KPMG US, in 
order to become a KPMG Canada SEC reviewing partner.  Gordon became one of the first four 
SEC reviewing partners at KPMG Canada.  Gordon had responsibility to perform SEC reviews 
on audits from various KPMG Canada offices.   
 
       In the summer of 1999, Bentham asked Gordon to perform a concurring partner review 
and an SEC review of KPMG Canada’s 1999 year-end audit of Southwestern.  Because Gordon 
had not yet been designated an SEC reviewing partner, he told Bentham that he would assist the 
audit in that role, but he may need to involve someone else prior to the completion of the work.  
However, Gordon did not involve anyone else and no one else at KPMG Canada acted as the 
SEC reviewing partner for Southwestern’s 1999 year-end audit.       
 
       Gordon was informed that KPMG Canada was preparing Southwestern’s financial 
statements from Southwestern’s bank records and invoices.  Bentham told Gordon that 
Southwestern’s accounting records were not in good shape, and that members of the audit 
engagement team were working extensively with bank documents and source invoices in order to 
complete the audit procedures.  Gordon also was aware that KPMG Canada was recording 
numerous journal entries or adjusting entries for Southwestern.  In addition, in July of 1999, 
Bentham e-mailed Gordon two documents.  The first document, the “Partner’s Audit Strategy” 
workpaper, stated, “KPMG [Canada] is to prepare the F/S using the first three quarter[ly] 
financial statements previously prepared from the bank statements and related party invoice 
supplied by the client.”  The second document, the “Business Review” workpaper, stated, “In 
previous years it was found that the accounting records of the company were poor.  KPMG 
[Canada] has prepared the quarterly financial statements (Notice to Reader) for the Company 
using information provided by [Southwestern’s founder] . . . .”  Gordon reviewed the Partner’s 
Audit Strategy and the Business Review workpapers.   
 
       b.  KPMG Canada, Bentham and Gordon failed to follow the Commission’s 
          independence guidance in conducting the 1999 fiscal year-end audit 
 
       KPMG Canada’s written policies in 1999 provided that:   
 
       Members of the management group who are responsible for engagements when the client 
       or its parent is an SEC registrant have an ongoing responsibility to be knowledgeable 
       about current independence rules and interpretations of the SEC and to ensure that we are 
       in compliance with such rules. 
                                                 
7
 KPMG US refers to KPMG LLP, the U.S. member firm of KPMG International, a Swiss 
cooperative.  KPMG US is a limited liability partnership headquartered in New York.  KPMG 
US is engaged in the business of providing audit, risk advisory and tax services.     
 

                                              5
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 
Contrary to this policy, KPMG Canada, Bentham and Gordon failed to follow the Commission’s 
independence guidance in conducting the 1999 fiscal year audit.  Section 602.02.c.i of the 
Commission’s Codification of Financial Reporting Policies states that an auditor is not 
independent if it has participated closely in maintenance of a company’s basic accounting 
records and preparation of the financial statements.   
  
       Bentham did not review the Codification of Financial Reporting Policies or any other 
SEC guidance relating to independence until after he completed his work on all of the 
Southwestern engagements in 2002.  In addition, no one on the engagement team consulted SEC 
guidance relating to independence for the 1999 fiscal year audit even though SEC rules and 
regulations were available in KPMG Canada’s Calgary office.   
 
       As part of Gordon’s SEC review for the fiscal year-end 1999 audit, Gordon gave the 
following written comment on Southwestern’s financial statements to the audit engagement 
team:  “Are we independent pursuant to SEC requirements”.  Gordon was familiar with SEC 
independence guidance because he had served as an engagement partner for SEC clients and had 
been trained at the National Office of KPMG US in New York.  Bentham discussed Gordon’s 
comment with the audit engagement manager.  The audit engagement manager responded to 
Gordon’s comment by writing “no consulting” and telling Gordon in a conversation regarding 
these written comments that KPMG Canada was not providing any prohibited services to 
Southwestern.  Despite the fact that Gordon had been informed that KPMG Canada was 
providing bookkeeping services, and notwithstanding Gordon’s responsibilities as an SEC 
reviewing partner to ensure the audit team’s familiarity with SEC independence standards, 
Gordon never specifically discussed this issue with the engagement team or asked Bentham if he 
had read the SEC independence rules.   
  
       Contrary to the Commission’s guidance, KPMG Canada, Bentham and Gordon audited 
KPMG Canada’s own work in preparing Southwestern’s fiscal year 1999 books, records and 
financial statements.  KPMG Canada’s audit report (dated July 15, 1999), which stated that 
KPMG Canada was independent, was filed with the Commission on November 12, 1999 with 
Southwestern’s Form 10-KSB for March 31, 1999.  In addition, the audit report stated that 
KPMG Canada audited Southwestern’s statements of loss and deficit and cash flows for the 
period from commencement of operations on April 1, 1992 to March 31, 1999.  This period 
included fiscal year 1998, a fiscal year for which KPMG Canada prepared Southwestern’s books, 
records and financial statements, as described above.  Bentham and Gordon both understood that 
KPMG Canada’s audits of Southwestern, a development stage company, would look back to 
Southwestern’s commencement of operations for the statements of loss and deficit and cash 
flows.  As a result, KPMG Canada, Bentham and Gordon issued an audit report for March 31, 
1999 in spite of the bookkeeping work that KPMG Canada performed for fiscal years 1998 and 
1999.    
        

                                              6
---------------------Page 7---------------------

    4.   KPMG Canada Prepared Certain of Southwestern’s Fiscal Year 2000 Books, 
       Records and Financial Statements, and KPMG Canada, Bentham and Gordon 
       Audited KPMG Canada’s Work    
           
       Southwestern hired an outside accounting firm, which compiled Southwestern’s quarterly 
financial statements until December 31, 1999 (the first three quarters of fiscal year 2000), and 
prepared a trial balance as of December 31, 1999 for the preceding nine-month period.  
However, Bentham knew that Southwestern did not have any internal or outside accountant for 
the fourth quarter and during that period KPMG Canada prepared certain of Southwestern’s 
books, records and financial statements.   
   
       Bentham also knew that KPMG Canada audit engagement staff prepared a trial balance 
(“Working Trial Balance”) for the 2000 fiscal year-end from, among other things, information 
provided by the client regarding Southwestern’s cash transactions.  The audit engagement senior 
created bank transaction summaries for Southwestern’s United States and Canadian bank 
accounts.  KPMG Canada then entered the information from the bank transaction summaries 
onto the Working Trial Balance in order “[t]o record the Canadian Cash Transactions for the 
year” and “[t]o record the US Cash Transactions for the year.”  The Working Trial Balance 
created by KPMG Canada is the only record to summarize all of the journal entries by account 
classification.  The Working Trial Balance functioned as the company’s general ledger, which is 
a basic accounting record.    
   
       Gordon was informed that KPMG Canada continued to prepare Southwestern’s financial 
statements from Southwestern’s bank records and invoices.  The Partner’s Audit Strategy, a 
workpaper used to help plan the audit, stated, “KPMG [Canada] is to prepare the F/S from the 
bank statements and related party invoices supplied by the client.”  Bentham initialed and 
Gordon reviewed this workpaper.   
 
       KPMG Canada’s written policies require SEC reviewing partners to discuss with the 
audit engagement partner the engagement team’s familiarity with U.S. independence standards.  
Notwithstanding this requirement, Gordon failed to ask Bentham to demonstrate his general 
knowledge of independence requirements and failed to ask whether Bentham had read the SEC 
independence rules.  If Gordon had asked Bentham this, he would have learned that Bentham 
had not read the rules.  KPMG Canada’s written policies also require SEC reviewing partners to 
discuss with the audit engagement partner any significant independence matters that come to the 
attention of the filing reviewer in the course of his review.  Nevertheless, Gordon failed to 
discuss with Bentham KPMG Canada’s lack of independence as a result of its providing 
bookkeeping services to Southwestern.   
        
       When KPMG Canada, Bentham and Gordon audited Southwestern’s fiscal year 2000 
financial statements, they audited KPMG Canada’s work in preparing Southwestern’s 2000 fiscal 
year books, records and financial statements.  In addition, because Southwestern was a 
development stage company, KPMG Canada, Bentham and Gordon audited Southwestern’s 
statements of loss and deficit and cash flows for the period April 1, 1992 to March 31, 2000.  
Accordingly, KPMG Canada, Bentham and Gordon issued an audit report for fiscal year 2000 in 
spite of the bookkeeping work KPMG Canada had performed in the current and prior fiscal 

                                              7
---------------------Page 8---------------------

years.  KPMG Canada’s audit report (dated June 23, 2000), which stated that KPMG Canada was 
independent, was filed with the Commission on July 17, 2002 with Southwestern’s March 31, 
2000 Form 10-KSB.   
 
   5.   KPMG Canada Prepared Certain of Southwestern’s Fiscal Year 2001 Books, 
       Records and Financial Statements, and KPMG Canada, Bentham and Gordon 
       Audited KPMG Canada’s Work 
 
       Bentham knew that for the first quarter of fiscal year 2001, Southwestern did not have 
any accounting staff and KPMG Canada prepared Southwestern’s financial statements from 
information Southwestern provided.   
           
  In     addition, KPMG Canada prepared certain first quarter books and records that enabled 
KPMG Canada to prepare the financial statements.  In particular, KPMG Canada prepared an 
adjusted trial balance with supporting schedules for the three months ended June 30, 2000.  Two 
of the supporting schedules classify Southwestern’s Canadian and United States bank account 
transactions.  Southwestern provided KPMG Canada with the bank transactions from which 
KPMG Canada prepared these schedules.   
        
       In late 2000 or early 2001, Bentham began to have concerns that KPMG Canada could 
not audit Southwestern and be independent unless Southwestern hired an in-house or outside 
accountant to prepare its books and records and financial statements.  KPMG Canada employees 
began receiving more information regarding permitted and prohibited services for SEC clients, 
and Bentham attended a training course on U.S. generally accepted accounting principles 
(“GAAP”) and GAAS.  Bentham recommended to Southwestern’s founder that Southwestern 
hire in-house accounting staff and introduced a contract accountant as a potential hire.  He also 
discussed with the audit manager that KPMG Canada could not be doing accounting work or 
preparing financial statements for Southwestern.8
                                                 Although Bentham informed Southwestern 
that KPMG Canada could not continue providing certain bookkeeping services, Bentham failed 
to document this issue in the workpapers or prepare a Significant Issues and Decisions 
Document, even though KPMG Canada policies required such a document.     9
                                                                            
        
       Effective February 2001, the Commission adopted Rule 2-01(c)(4)(i)(A) of Regulation S-
X, which incorporated previous requirements and provides that “[a]n accountant is not 
independent, if, at any point during the audit and professional engagement period, the accountant 
provides . . . [b]ookkeeping . . . services” to an audit client related to that client’s accounting 
records or financial statements.  KPMG Canada and Bentham, nevertheless, continued to provide 
prohibited services.  Specifically, during the audit, Bentham participated in deciding how to 
record stock issuances which Southwestern had not recorded in the third and fourth quarters of 

                                                 
8
 The contract accountant (the first of two) began preparing accounting records for Southwestern 
as of the second quarter of fiscal year 2001 (beginning July 1, 2000). 
 
9
 The following year, bookkeeping services that KPMG Canada provided Southwestern were 
detailed in a Significant Issues and Decisions Document. 
 

                                              8
---------------------Page 9---------------------

fiscal year 2001.  Southwestern’s founder had originally informed KPMG Canada that certain 
shares had been issued for cash.  KPMG Canada, however, was having difficulty reconciling the 
amount of shares Southwestern had issued with the cash it received.  KPMG Canada also was 
unable to reconcile Southwestern’s records with the transfer agent’s confirmation regarding the 
amount of shares issued.  Bentham told Southwestern’s founder that KPMG Canada could not 
determine where the cash had been deposited.  Southwestern’s founder did not provide any 
explanation for the lack of funds for the issued shares.  In early-February 2002, Bentham asked 
Southwestern’s founder whether certain explanations could account for the lack of funds, such as 
if these shares had been issued for services provided rather than having been issued for cash.  
Southwestern’s founder then confirmed that the shares had been issued for services provided.  
KPMG Canada’s audit fees for fiscal year 2001 tripled primarily because of the amount of work 
KPMG Canada did to record and reconcile the stock transactions.   
   
       When Gordon reviewed the workpapers for fiscal year 2001, they did not include a 
Significant Issues and Decisions Document.10
                                              According to KPMG Canada policy, a Significant 
Issues and Decisions Document must be prepared for each audit.  Gordon failed to ask anyone on 
the audit engagement team for the missing workpaper.  Additionally, Gordon did not discuss 
with Bentham SEC independence requirements related to bookkeeping services, even though 
Gordon had previously been advised that Southwestern’s records were poor and KPMG Canada 
was preparing Southwestern’s financial statements.  Gordon understood there was no change in 
these circumstances in fiscal year 2001. 
 
       When KPMG Canada, Bentham and Gordon audited Southwestern’s fiscal year 2001 
financial statements, they audited KPMG Canada’s work in preparing the fiscal year 2001 first 
quarter financial statements and recording stock issuances for the third and fourth quarters of 
fiscal year 2001.  Moreover, KPMG Canada, Bentham and Gordon audited Southwestern’s 
statements of loss and deficit and cash flows for the period April 1, 1992 to March 31, 2001.  As 
a result, KPMG Canada, Bentham and Gordon issued an audit report for fiscal year 2001 in spite 
of the bookkeeping work KPMG Canada had performed in the current and prior fiscal years.  
KPMG Canada’s audit report (dated February 19, 2002), which stated that KPMG Canada was 
independent, was filed with the Commission on August 8, 2002 with Southwestern’s Form 10-
KSB for March 31, 2001.   
  
   6.   For Fiscal Year 2002, KPMG Canada, Bentham and Gordon Audited KPMG 
       Canada’s Work in Recording 2002 Stock Transactions, Drilling Costs and Other 
       Liabilities and Expenses 
           
 KPMG         Canada again provided bookkeeping services to Southwestern in fiscal year 2002.  
Southwestern’s first outside accountant transferred the company’s accounting records to a 
second outside accountant in early to mid-2002.  The second outside accountant was involved in 
preparing Southwestern’s books and records for fiscal year 2002.  The outside accountant’s 
work, however, centered on recording cash transactions.  Bentham knew that, during the audit, a 

                                                 
10
  Because the March 31, 2001 year-end filing was delayed, Gordon reviewed the fiscal year 
2001 workpapers at about the same time he reviewed the fiscal year 2002 workpapers.   
 

                                              9
---------------------Page 10---------------------

member of KPMG Canada’s audit engagement team made nineteen journal entries, many of 
which were to record non-cash stock transactions and to accrue various liabilities and to record 
various expenses, including the drilling costs on Southwestern’s first and only well, which 
activity Southwestern had failed to record as of fiscal year-end 2002.   
        
       Gordon knew that KPMG Canada was recording Southwestern’s stock transactions for 
fiscal year 2002.  The Significant Issues and Decisions Document for fiscal year 2002, which 
Bentham initialed and Gordon reviewed, stated that “KPMG [Canada] booked [adjusting journal 
entries] to account for the expense [o]f issuing shares and warrants for services.”  This 
Significant Issues and Decisions Document also described several other instances where KPMG 
Canada recorded accounting transactions for Southwestern for fiscal year 2002.  For example, 
the Significant Issues and Decisions Document stated that “no amount has been accrued [by 
Southwestern] for the drilled well,” KPMG Canada’s planned audit procedure was to “review the 
invoices from [the drilling company] to determine the amount to be accrued in the financial 
statements” and that an accrual for the well was then “booked as an [adjusting journal entry].”  
The Significant Issues and Decisions Document also noted that “KPMG [Canada] posted an 
[adjusting journal entry] to accrue for the costs of [a] contract” that Southwestern had not 
recorded.  The same document explained that KPMG Canada “booked” an adjusting journal 
entry to record depreciation on assets Southwestern purchased during the year when 
Southwestern had taken no depreciation on those assets.  Because Southwestern had not booked 
these items, KPMG Canada’s adjusting journal entries functioned as Southwestern’s journal 
entries.  Thus, KPMG Canada determined the accounting for, and recorded, the stock and 
warrant issuances and certain liabilities and expenses for the year.   
        
       When KPMG Canada, Bentham and Gordon audited Southwestern’s fiscal year-end 2002 
financial statements, they audited KPMG Canada’s work in recording fiscal year 2002 stock 
transactions, drilling costs and certain liabilities and expenses.  Furthermore, KPMG Canada, 
Bentham and Gordon audited Southwestern’s statements of loss and deficit and cash flows for 
the period April 1, 1992 to March 31, 2002.  As a result, KPMG Canada, Bentham and Gordon 
issued an audit report for fiscal year 2002 in spite of the bookkeeping work KPMG Canada also 
had performed in prior fiscal years.  KPMG Canada’s audit report (dated July 19, 2002), which 
stated that KPMG Canada was independent, was filed with the Commission on August 28, 2002 
with Southwestern’s Form 10-KSB for March 31, 2002.   
     
   7.  KPMG Canada Lacked Adequate Policies and Procedures to Prevent and Detect the 
       Independence Problem that Occurred with Southwestern 
     
       While KPMG Canada was providing bookkeeping services to Southwestern, it had no 
policy or procedure requiring audit engagement partners to consult with anyone at KPMG 
Canada in deciding whether to provide bookkeeping services to audit clients.  Indeed, Bentham 
did not seek approval from anyone before authorizing the bookkeeping services for 
Southwestern.    
 
       In December 2000, KPMG Canada designated an Ethics and Independence Partner 
(“Independence Partner”) in its National Office with responsibility for ensuring the firm’s 
compliance with the rules of Professional Conduct of the Provincial Institutes/Ordre of Chartered 
Accountants and the Commission.  Although KPMG Canada began to set new policies, it still 

                                             10
---------------------Page 11---------------------

lacked effective monitoring procedures to detect and prevent the continuing independence 
problems with the Southwestern audits in fiscal years 2001 and 2002.    
        
  Additionally,     KPMG Canada had no formal independence training for its staff until after 
the last of the Southwestern audits were completed in 2002.  KPMG Canada also did not have 
any requirements to document threats to independence and related safeguards until 2004, after 
Canadian independence standards had been proposed addressing analysis of, and documentation 
relating to, such threats and safeguards.   
 
       Moreover, KPMG Canada’s quality control procedures relating to client continuance 
were insufficient.  KPMG Canada policies required client continuance forms to be completed 
yearly by the engagement team and reviewed by a professional practice partner.  Client 
continuance forms included a consideration of KPMG Canada’s compliance with independence 
requirements and an assessment of the risks associated with auditing clients, including the 
adequacy of the client’s accounting records.  However, Bentham failed to complete client 
continuance forms for Southwestern every year from 1999 through 2002, and KPMG Canada 
failed to detect this failure.  Since no forms had been completed, no reviews by a professional 
practice partner could occur. 
 
  Furtherm      ore, KPMG Canada failed to conduct appropriate reviews of its engagement 
partners’ audit files to determine compliance with KPMG Canada policies and procedures related 
to, among other things, independence.  The risk management group in KPMG Canada’s National 
Office oversees the Quality Performance Review (“QPR”) program.  Partners were subject to a 
QPR once every three years.  Several client files were examined for each partner, and the files 
selected were to be weighted towards higher risk clients.  Nonetheless, the audit files for 
Southwestern were never subject to a QPR review.   
 
       Southwestern was a high risk client.  KPMG Canada policies provided that all public 
companies, like Southwestern, must have a concurring review and that such clients are high risk.  
Additionally, according to KPMG Canada’s risk criteria in its client continuance forms, 
Southwestern should have been identified as a high risk client because, among other things, 
Southwestern’s accounting records and internal controls were inadequate; Southwestern had no 
audit committee; Southwestern faced financing difficulties; each year, KPMG Canada’s audit 
report disclosed that Southwestern’s ability to continue to operate was dependent upon its raising 
additional financing; Southwestern had significant related party transactions; and Southwestern’s 
founder was a particularly dominant CEO.   
        

                                              11
---------------------Page 12---------------------

       Despite all of these factors, neither Bentham nor Gordon11
                                                                  considered Southwestern to be 
a high risk client.  Moreover, Southwestern was not selected in Bentham’s partner QPRs in 1998 
and 2001 notwithstanding the fact that it clearly fit KPMG Canada’s definition of a high risk 
client, and even though Southwestern was Bentham’s only SEC engagement client in 1998.     
 
       KPMG Canada’s QPRs include reviewing compliance with policies in key risk 
management areas, including independence.  QPR objectives include assessing the engagement 
team’s compliance with firm and professional standards and assessing adherence to relevant 
statutory requirements.  Professional standards and statutory requirements would include SEC 
independence standards.  As a result, had KPMG Canada performed QPRs of Southwestern in 
1998 or 2001, it should have discovered that KPMG Canada’s independence was compromised 
because the firm provided prohibited bookkeeping services.   
 
E. LEGAL  ANALYSIS 
 
       An independent auditor “assumes a public responsibility transcending any employment 
relationship with the client [and] owes ultimate allegiance to the corporation’s creditors and 
stockholders, as well as to the investing public.  This ‘public watchdog’ function demands that 
the accountant maintain total independence from the client at all times and requires complete 
fidelity to the public trust.”  United States v. Arthur Young & Co., 465 U.S. 805, 817-18 (1984). 
 
   “Because of the importance of an accountant’s independence to the integrity of the financial 
reporting system, the Commission has concluded that circumstances that raise questions about an 
accountant’s independence always merit heightened scrutiny.”  Section III.C.I. of Amendment to 
Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Release No. 33-7593 (October 19, 1998).   
 
       Section 602.02.c.i of the Commission’s Codification of Financial Reporting Policies 
provides:  “It is the Commission’s position that an accounting firm cannot be deemed 
independent with regard to auditing financial statements of a client if it has participated closely, 
either manually or through its computer services, in maintenance of the basic accounting records 
and preparation of the financial statements.”   
 
  Rule      2-01(c)(4)(i)(A) of Regulation S-X, which became effective in February 2001, 
similarly provides that “[a]n accountant is not independent, if, at any point during the audit and 
professional engagement period, the accountant provides . . . [b]ookkeeping or other services” to 
an audit client related to that client’s accounting records or financial statements, including:  “(1) 
Maintaining or preparing the audit client’s accounting records; (2) Preparing the audit client’s 
financial statements that are filed with the Commission or form the basis of financial statements 
                                                 
11
  In December 2000, KPMG Canada required concurring partners to review a planning 
memorandum prior to the commencement of significant fieldwork for the audit of an SEC 
registrant engagement or other engagements identified as “high risk.”  Because Gordon did not 
consider Southwestern to be a high risk client, he did not review planning memoranda prior to 
the commencement of significant fieldwork for Southwestern.  KPMG Canada’s quality control 
policies and procedures failed to surface these deficiencies.  KPMG Canada likewise did not 
detect that Gordon, in certain years, had failed to sign off on Southwestern’s audit workpapers as 
concurring and/or SEC reviewing partner.  

                                               12
---------------------Page 13---------------------

filed with the Commission; or (3) Preparing or originating source data underlying the audit 
client’s financial statements.”   
 
       Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X also requires the accountant’s report to “state whether 
the audit was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.”  17 C.F.R. ' 
210.2-02 (1998).  Codification of Statements on Auditing Standards (“SAS”), AU Section 220, 
provides that an auditor “should administer his practice within the spirit of [the Commission’s] 
precepts and rules” in order to be independent.  SAS, AU Section 150.02, states that the audit 
“report should contain a clear-cut indication of the character of the auditor’s work, if any, and the 
degree of responsibility the auditor is taking.”   
 
       As described above, KPMG Canada participated closely in the maintenance of certain of 
Southwestern’s basic accounting records and prepared Southwestern’s financial statements for 
the fiscal years ended March 31, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002.  Each fiscal year from 1999 
through 2002 included operating results from prior fiscal year(s) that were audited by Bentham 
and Gordon during which time KPMG Canada also provided bookkeeping services.  As the 
engagement partner, Bentham was primarily responsible for the audits.  Bentham also supervised 
the bookkeeping services and participated in some of that work.  Gordon, the concurring and 
SEC reviewing partner, was informed that KPMG Canada was preparing certain of 
Southwestern’s basic accounting records and financial statements, yet he concurred in the 
issuance of the audit reports as concurring partner and did not require KPMG Canada to 
withhold its audit reports as SEC reviewing partner.  Therefore, KPMG Canada, Bentham and 
Gordon lacked independence from Southwestern when KPMG Canada issued its audit reports on 
Southwestern’s financial statements for its 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002 fiscal years, all of which 
were included in the company’s public filings with the Commission.  
 
  Additionally,     KPMG Canada’s audit reports stated that the audits were conducted in 
accordance with GAAS when they were not.  As set forth above, KPMG Canada, Bentham and 
Gordon violated AU Section 220 by lacking independence under the Commission’s rules and 
guidance.  KPMG Canada also violated AU Section 150.02 because its audit reports did not 
accurately describe the character of KPMG Canada’s work.  These reports stated that KPMG 
Canada was independent when it was not and failed to disclose the bookkeeping services it 
provided Southwestern.  KPMG Canada, Bentham and Gordon thereby violated the auditor 
independence requirements imposed by the Commission’s rules and guidance and by GAAS.   
 
       The Respondents engaged in improper professional conduct under the negligence 
standards of Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, as defined in Rule 
102(e)(1)(iv)(B).  Specifically, KPMG Canada, Bentham and Gordon engaged in:  1) highly 
unreasonable conduct that resulted in a violation of applicable professional standards in 
circumstances in which KPMG Canada, Bentham and Gordon knew or should have known 
heightened scrutiny was warranted; and 2) repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each 
resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards that indicate a lack of competence to 
practice before the Commission.   
 

                                              13
---------------------Page 14---------------------

F.  FINDINGS 
 
       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that KPMG Canada, Bentham and Gordon 
engaged in improper professional conduct pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice. 
 
G.  CERTAIN STEPS KPMG CANADA HAS TAKEN SINCE ITS AUDITS OF  
      SOUTHWESTERN   
 
  KPMG        Canada introduced a mandatory annual independence training course in 
November 2002.  The course content includes SEC independence rules and Canadian 
independence standards.  All client service professionals are required to take this training once 
each year and pass a mastery exam at the end of the course.  The results are centrally monitored 
by KPMG Canada’s National Office to confirm that all client service professionals have taken 
the course. 
 
       In 2003, KPMG Canada implemented a new electronic system (“the Sentinel system”) 
that helps to detect when non-audit services are provided to SEC registrants.  Individuals who 
propose new engagements/projects for SEC registrant audit clients must describe the 
engagement/project in the Sentinel system.  The Sentinel system automatically sends the request 
to the lead audit engagement partner, who determines whether the engagement/project is a 
permissible service under auditor independence rules and determines whether the 
engagement/project requires separate pre-approval from the client’s audit committee.  Once the 
lead audit engagement partner approves the engagement/project, the Sentinel system assigns the 
engagement/project a Sentinel Approval Number, which is necessary in order to open a new 
engagement/project in KPMG Canada’s Time and Billing system.   
 
       In April 2003, KPMG Canada imposed the following requirements for all high risk 
clients, including SEC registrants, on an annual basis:  1) the engagement team must complete a 
client retention workpaper, WP-100, which contains a more detailed assessment of client risk 
factors than previous workpapers; and 2) the engagement partner and a professional practice 
partner or risk management partner must approve WP-100.  WP-100 also requires the 
engagement team to list non-audit services that are being, or are expected to be, provided to the 
client, including bookkeeping services. 
 
       In addition, in October 2004, KPMG Canada implemented the workpaper, Evaluation of 
Threats to Independence and Safeguards – Canada (“Threats and Safeguards”), as a result of 
recent Canadian independence standards that require each audit engagement team to document 
all of the actual and perceived threats to independence, as well as the safeguards that have been 
implemented to address those threats.  The Threats and Safeguards workpaper, which is the basis 
for preparing the annual independence letter to the audit committee (U.S. Independence 
Standards Board #1 Letter (“ISB #1 Letter”)), is reviewed by the concurring partner after it has 
been completed.  The concurring partner also reviews the ISB #1 Letter. 
 

                                              14
---------------------Page 15---------------------

                     Furthermore, since 2004, KPMG Canada now requires publicly listed entities to be 
              subject to a QPR once every five years.  Beginning with the 2004 QPR program, KPMG Canada 
              required retention of documentation from SEC engagement reviews for seven years.   
               
              H.  UNDERTAKINGS BY KPMG CANADA 
               
              Respondent KPMG Canada undertakes the following: 
               
              1.     Within 10 days of the date of this Order, KPMG Canada shall pay $73,682 to the United 
              States Treasury, which represents $60,148 in KPMG Canada’s fees from the audit and 
              bookkeeping services it performed for Southwestern for fiscal year 1999 through 2002, and 
              $13,534 in prejudgment interest.  Such payment shall be:  (A) made by United States postal 
              money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check or bank money order; (B) made payable to 
              the Securities and Exchange Commission; (C) hand-delivered or mailed to the Office of 
              Financial Management, Securities and Exchange Commission, Operations Center, 6432 General 
              Green Way, Alexandria, Stop 0-3, VA 22312; and (D) submitted under cover letter that identifies 
              KPMG Canada as a Respondent in these proceedings, the file number of these proceedings, a 
              copy of which cover letter and money order or check shall be sent to Antonia Chion, Division of 
              Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 
              20549-8549-A. 
               
              2.     Firm-Wide Auditor Independence Training:  KPMG Canada shall continue to require all 
              audit professionals to annually undergo training regarding auditor independence requirements 
              and guidance. 
                   
              3.     Maintenance of Independence Partner:  KPMG Canada shall maintain at least one 
              partner in its National Office with responsibility for ensuring the firm’s compliance with auditor 
              independence requirements and guidance, including, without limitation, the adoption, 
              implementation and oversight of firm policies and procedures designed to ensure such 
              compliance (“Independence Partner”).   
               
              4.     Implementation of Policies Preventing Prohibited Bookkeeping Services from Being 
              Provided to SEC Registrant Audit Clients:  KPMG Canada shall adopt and implement within 90 
              days of this Order written procedures to provide reasonable assurance that prohibited 
              bookkeeping services will not be provided to SEC registrant audit clients, including:   
                
                      i.      Procedures requiring that client continuance forms (containing an assessment of 
                     risks and a listing of non-audit services being provided) for all SEC registrant audit 
                     clients to be completed and reviewed annually; and further requiring KPMG Canada’s 
                     National Office to monitor the annual completion and review of client continuance forms 
                     for all SEC registrant audit clients. 
        
 ii.                         Procedures requiring an Independence Partner to annually review such 
                     documents, forms and other information relating to all SEC registrant audit clients 
                     (including, but not limited to, client continuance forms and information in the Sentinel 

                                                            15
---------------------Page 16---------------------

                      system) sufficient to determine whether any prohibited bookkeeping services are being 
                      provided to SEC registrant audit clients. 
 
              5.     Documentation of Concurring Partner Review for SEC Registrant Audit Clients:  KPMG 
              Canada shall adopt and implement written procedures within 90 days of this Order requiring 
              concurring partners to sign and date workpapers (including planning memoranda) for all SEC 
              registrant audit clients on the date they review such workpapers. 
                   
              6.     Retention of QPR Documentation for SEC Registrant Audit Clients:  KPMG Canada shall 
              maintain its policy requiring retention of all documentation from QPRs of SEC registrant audit 
              engagements for at least seven years.  
               
              7.     Distribution of Order:  KPMG Canada shall distribute a copy of this Order to all of its 
              audit professionals within 10 business days after entry of the Order. 
                   
              8.     Report on Compliance:  Within 120 days from the entry of this Order, KPMG Canada 
              shall certify in writing to Commission staff that it is in compliance with the undertakings set 
              forth in paragraphs H.1 through H.7. 
               
                      In determining to accept the Offer of KPMG Canada, the Commission considered 
              remedial acts promptly undertaken by KPMG Canada, cooperation afforded the Commission 
              staff and the undertakings set forth above. 
               
              I.  UNDERTAKINGS BY GORDON  
               
              Gordon undertakes that: 
                    
              1.         As long as he practices before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer, or a person 
              responsible for the preparation or review, of any public company’s financial statements that are 
              filed with the Commission, Gordon’s work in his practice before the Commission will be 
              reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company for which he works 
              or in some other acceptable manner; and/or 
                
              2.         As long as he appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant: 
                              
                      (a)        Gordon, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is and will 
              remain registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
              accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and 
               
                      (b)        Gordon will comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, 
              including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring 
              partner reviews and quality control standards.   
               
                      In determining to accept the Offer of Gordon, the Commission considered the 
              undertakings set forth above. 
               

                                                             16
---------------------Page 17---------------------

                                              IV. 
 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in the Respondents’ Offers. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
KPMG Canada 
 
 A.           KPMG Canada is censured pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii).     
 
Bentham 
 
       B.     Bentham is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission 
as an accountant.   
  
       C.     After two years from the date of this Order, Bentham may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Bentham’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                      (a)    Bentham, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)    Bentham, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, has been inspected by the Board or equivalent Canadian organization and that 
inspection did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in Bentham’s or the firm’s 
quality control system that would indicate that Bentham will not receive appropriate supervision 
or, if the Board has not conducted an inspection, has received an unqualified report relating to 
his, or the firm’s, most recent peer review conducted in accordance with the guidelines adopted 
by the former SEC Practice Section of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants 
Division for CPA Firms or an organization providing equivalent oversight and quality control 
functions; 

                      (c)    Bentham has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board or 
equivalent Canadian organization, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any 
sanctions imposed (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                                               17
---------------------Page 18---------------------

 
                      (d)     Bentham acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Bentham 
appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
      
       D.      The Commission will consider an application by Bentham to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his chartered accountant license is current and 
he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable Canadian institute of chartered 
accountants.  However, if licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the 
Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may 
include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating 
to Bentham’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice 
before the Commission. 
 
Gordon  
 
       E.      Gordon is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission 
as an accountant for nine months from the date of this Order. 
 
               By the Commission. 
 
 
 
              J                                              onathan G. Katz 
               S                                                     ecretary 

                                               18
