---------------------Page 1---------------------

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
                                     Washington, D.C. 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Rel. No.  55987 / June 29, 2007 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Rel. No. 2627 / June 29, 2007 

Admin. Proc. File No. 3-12208 

               In the Matter of                CORRECTED ORDER DENYING 
                                               RESPONDENTS’ MOTIONS FOR 
          KEVIN HALL, CPA and                  SUMMARY DISPOSITION 
         ROSEMARY MEYER, CPA                   AND ORAL ARGUMENT 

       Kevin Hall and Rosemary Meyer move for summary disposition.  Respondents assert that 
the Commission should dismiss this proceeding without prejudice because they did not have 
effective representation of counsel during the investigation and Wells process and that, in part as 
a result, the Division overlooked exculpatory evidence in recommending that we institute this 
proceeding.  Respondents also complain that the Division was tardy in producing to them certain 
portions of its investigatory file.  They further ask for an extension of time to review these late-
produced documents. 

       Summary disposition does not lie.  Rule of Practice 250(b) provides that a “hearing 
officer may grant the motion for summary disposition if there is no genuine issue with regard to 
any material fact and the party making the motion is entitled to a summary disposition as a 
matter of law.” 1/  Rule of Practice 250(a) further provides that “[i]f the interested division has 
not completed presentation of its case in chief, a motion for summary disposition shall be made 
only with leave of the hearing officer.” 2/  Respondents have failed to demonstrate that there is 
no genuine dispute with respect to any material fact alleged in the Order Instituting Proceedings 
or that they are entitled to an order as a matter of law. 

       Moreover, a motion for summary disposition generally should be made to the hearing 
officer, and, in any event, cannot be made before the Division finishes its case in chief, absent 
leave of the hearing officer.  Respondents have not sought such leave.  Respondents suggest that 

1/     17 C.F.R. § 201.250(b). 

2/     17 C.F.R. § 201.250(a). 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                2


the law judge stated in a pre-hearing conference that they would have to file this motion with the 
Commission.  However, our review of the transcript indicates the law judge observed that she 
did not have the power to dismiss the proceeding prior to a hearing.  

       Most critically, Rule of Practice 400(a) states that the “exclusive remedy for review of a 
hearing officer’s ruling prior to Commission consideration of the entire proceeding” is a petition 
for interlocutory review. 3/  Rule 400(a) further states that “[p]etitions by parties for 
interlocutory review are disfavored, and the Commission ordinarily will grant a petition to 
review a hearing officer ruling prior to its consideration of an initial decision only in 
extraordinary circumstances.” 4/  Rule of Practice 400(c) requires that a “ruling submitted to the 
Commission for interlocutory review must be certified in writing by the hearing officer.” 5/ 

       Respondents did not seek or obtain certification of any of the law judge’s rulings.  Nor 
have they demonstrated extraordinary circumstances warranting acceptance of their petition. 
Moreover, we see no basis for the Commission to take the matter up on its own motion. 
Respondents’ motions with respect to efficacy of counsel during the investigation and their 
complaints about production of documents do not warrant our interference with the orderly 
hearing process.  We believe that it would be inappropriate to separate these issues from any 
future consideration of the entire proceeding. 6/ 

       In particular, once we have exercised our prosecutorial discretion to institute a 
proceeding, the appropriate remedy for any challenge to that exercise of discretion is to litigate 
the proceeding to a final decision.  None of the authorities cited by Respondents contradicts that 
view; they affirm the unremarkable principle that agency decisions to institute enforcement 
proceedings may be subject to review without conceding that any such review may be sought 
prior to the issuance of a final order by the agency in that proceeding.  

       Beverly Health & Rehab. Servs., Inc. v. Feinstein, 7/ cited by Respondents, supports our 
determination here.  In that case, plaintiff brought an action in district court challenging the 
decision of the General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board (“NLRB”) to institute an 
administrative proceeding against the plaintiff while that proceeding was still pending before the 

3/     17 C.F.R. § 201.400(a). 

4/     Ibid. 

5/     17 C.F.R. § 201.400(c). 

6/     See Trautman Wasserman & Co., Inc., Order Denying Petition for Interlocutory Review, 
       Exchange Act Rel. No. 55989 (June 29, 2007), __ SEC Docket __ (with respect to 
       representation by counsel during investigations). 

7/     103 F.3d 151 (D.C. Cir. 1996). 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                3


NLRB.  In affirming the district court’s dismissal of the action, the court stated that the issuance 
of the complaint at issue 

               is a quintessential example of a prosecutorial decision.  It involves a balancing of 
               culpability, evidence, prosecutorial resources, and the public interest.  The 
               weighing of all those considerations factors into the issuance of a complaint.  The 
               formulation of the proper contours of a complaint is a critical first step in the 
               prosecutorial journey and Beverly’s attempt to segregate the framing of the 
               complaint from the enforcement process does not wash. 8/ 

The court ultimately concluded that plaintiff would be entitled to challenge the decision to bring 
the complaint in the course of defending against it, and in any ensuing appeal to a Court of 
Appeals, observing that the plaintiff would, if necessary, “have its day in court on the charging 
issue, but not today.” 9/ 

       We further do not believe that review of the law judge’s decision not to postpone the 
proceeding is appropriate.  Rule of Practice 111(d) grants the hearing officer broad authority to 
“regulate the proceeding.” 10/  The law judge has concluded that no postponement of the hearing 
date is warranted, a determination that a hearing officer must make as part of the regulation of 
the course of the proceeding.  We do not believe that Respondents have shown extraordinary 
circumstances justifying review of this decision. 11/ 

       We believe that Commission review benefits from having the entire record developed 
before the law judge.  We stress that, absent extraordinary circumstances, we will not entertain 
motions, no matter how styled, for interlocutory review. 

       Respondents have requested oral argument.  Our Rule of Practice 154(a) states that “[n]o 
oral argument shall be heard on any motion unless the Commission or the hearing officer 

8/     Id. at 153. 

9/     Id. at 156. 

10/    17 C.F.R. § 201.111(d). 

11/    Respondents have further asked that, pursuant to Rule of Practice 322,                           
       17 C.F.R. § 201.322, their motion and the accompanying submissions be kept under seal. 
       We will consider this request by separate order.  Pending a determination of this motion, 
       the documents will be kept under seal pursuant to Rule of Practice 322(d).  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                               4


otherwise directs.” 12/  We have determined that the presentation in the briefs and the decisional 
process would not be significantly aided by oral argument. 13/ 

       Accordingly, it is ORDERED that Respondents’ Motion for Summary Disposition be, 
and it hereby is, denied; and it is further 

       ORDERED that Respondents’ Motion for Oral Argument be, and it hereby is, denied. 

       By the Commission. 

                                                   Nancy M. Morris
                                                        Secretary 

12/	   17 C.F.R. § 201.154(a). 

13/	   See 17 C.F.R. § 201.451(a) (stating that “[t]he Commission will consider appeals, 
       motions and other matters properly before it on the basis of the papers filed by the parties 
       without oral argument unless the Commission determines that the presentation of facts 
       and legal arguments in the briefs and record and the decisional process would be 
       significantly aided by oral argument”). 
