---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                      the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  51995 / July 8, 2005 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2273 / July 8, 2005 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.   3-11974 
                                               
In the Matter of                             ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
                                             PROCEEDINGS, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
      DUKE ENERGY                            IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
      CORPORATION,                           PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF THE 
                                             SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Respondent. 
 
 
 
 
                                                
 
                                           I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Duke Energy Corporation (“Duke” or 
“Respondent”).   
                                            
                                          II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over Respondent and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to 
Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                            
                                            
                                            
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1
                                                                                   that:  
 
               1.      Duke, a North Carolina corporation with its principal executive offices in 
Charlotte, North Carolina, is an integrated provider of energy and energy services.  Duke’s 
common stock is registered with the Commission under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and 
trades on the NYSE under the symbol DUK. 

               2.           From at least June 1997 through at least November 2002, Duke traded 
electricity and natural gas products with other energy companies.  The trading unit that is the focus 
of this matter was located in Houston, Texas.   

               3.           Duke engaged in trading electricity and natural gas products for two 
principal purposes:  (a) to hedge against Duke’s exposure to the risk of unanticipated swings in the 
price of electricity and natural gas; and (b) to profit through speculative trading. 

               4.           Duke maintained separate “books” for the company’s hedging and 
speculative trading activities and, in conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
(“GAAP”), the books were treated differently for accounting purposes.  Under GAAP, only if a 
transaction was properly designated as a hedging transaction would it qualify for accrual 
accounting treatment in which at least a portion of the gain or loss on the transaction could be 
deferred until a later period.  Conversely, in conformity with GAAP, the gain or loss on all 
speculative transactions should have been recognized currently in earnings, on a mark-to-market 
basis.  

               5. From approximately 199        7 to 2002, Duke’s internal accounting controls 
were insufficient to ensure that its traders properly recorded their trading activities in Duke’s books 
and records.  As a result, certain traders manipulated those books and records in order to maximize 
the size of their year-end bonuses and other performance-based compensation. 

               6.           Duke’s internal accounting controls deficiencies included the following:  
First, while Duke awarded year-end bonuses and other performance-based compensation primarily 
on the basis of traders’ profitability for the past year, Duke allowed certain traders to have control 
over both accrual and mark-to-market accounted trading books, thereby giving these traders an 
opportunity improperly to shift losses into their accrual books where at least a portion of the losses 
would not be recognized until a later period, after the traders’ annual bonus determinations already 
had been made.  Second, although Duke’s policies and procedures required traders to enter their 
trades promptly into Duke’s systems, Duke failed to monitor traders to ensure that, in practice, the 
traders actually assigned each trade to a particular book at the time that the trader entered into the 
trade.  This failure allowed traders to assign trades based upon whether the trades resulted in gains 

                                                 
       1
         The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding 
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

 
                                                 2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

(in which case, the trades could be assigned to a trader’s mark-to-market book where the gains 
would be recognized in full in the current period), or losses (in which case, the trades could be 
assigned to a trader’s accrual book where at least a portion of the losses could be deferred until 
later periods).  Third, Duke did not require traders to maintain time-stamped trading tickets that 
recorded the time at which each trade was entered into, making it more difficult for Respondent to 
detect misclassifications of trading transactions because of the lack of an audit trail Duke could 
follow to determine the time at which a trade was entered into, relative to the time when the trader 
actually assigned the trade to a particular book.  Fourth, Duke failed to establish a system whereby 
internal compliance personnel would monitor a trader’s individual decision to move a trade from 
one book to another, which allowed traders to move losing positions from a mark-to-market book 
to an accrual book.   

               7.           As a result of Duke’s internal accounting controls deficiencies, between 
approximately January 1, 2001 and June 30, 2002, three individuals in Duke’s trading operation 
misclassified approximately $56.2 million of trading losses as hedge trading losses, to be 
accounted for in Respondent’s books and records on an accrual basis, when, in fact, those trading 
losses were speculative trading losses that, under GAAP, should have been accounted for in 
Respondent’s books and records on a mark-to-market basis.  Further, as a result of these 
misclassifications, these three traders were awarded bonuses by Duke, for the year ended 
December 31, 2001, in amounts that the traders would not otherwise have been awarded. 

               8.           Although the misclassifications detailed above did not have a material 
impact on Duke’s financial statements, as a result of the conduct described above, Duke committed 
violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, which requires issuers to make and keep 
books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the issuer. 

               9.           Also as a result of the conduct described above, Duke committed violations 
of Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, which requires issuers to devise and maintain a 
system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions 
are executed in accordance with management’s general or specific authorization, transactions are 
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP, and 
to maintain accountability for assets, access to assets is permitted only in accordance with 
management’s general or specific authorization, and the recorded accountability for assets is 
compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with 
respect to any differences. 

                                    Duke’s Remedial Efforts 

       In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts promptly 
undertaken by Respondent and the cooperation Respondent afforded the Commission staff. 
 
                                                  
 
 

                                                3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                                                                     IV. 
                                                                                         
             In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Duke’s Offer. 
 
             Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that Respondent Duke cease and desist from 
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. 
 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Jonathan G. Katz 
       Secretary 
 

                                                                                       4 
