---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

                                        before the

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Rel. No. 56242 / August 13, 2007 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Rel. No. 2668 / August 13, 2007 

Admin. Proc. File No. 3-12208 

                      In the Matter of 


                    KEVIN HALL, CPA

                            and

                ROSEMARY MEYER, CPA


ORDER GRANTING PARTIAL PROTECTIVE ORDER 

      On July 3, 2007, Kevin Hall, CPA, and Rosemary Meyer, CPA, submitted a Motion 
seeking a protective order under Rule of Practice 322 1/ limiting disclosure of the motion, the 
accompanying memorandum, certain attachments and affidavits with accompanying exhibits, as 
well as all future briefing, filed in support of a motion for summary disposition filed by Hall and 
Meyer.  Under Rule 322, any party "may file a motion requesting a protective order to limit from 
disclosure to other parties or to the public documents or testimony that contain confidential 
information." 2/  "A motion for a protective order shall be granted only upon a finding that the 
harm resulting from disclosure would outweigh the benefits of disclosure." 3/  The Commission's 
staff has not opposed the Respondents' request for a protective order. 

      The Commission recognizes that the documents Respondents submitted contain sensitive 
information.  At this stage in the proceeding, we believe that the harm resulting from complete 
disclosure outweighs the benefits.  On June 29, 2007, the Commission issued an order denying 

1/    17 C.F.R. ยง 201.322. 

2/    17 C.F.R. ยง 201.322(a). 

3/    17 C.F.R. ยง 201.322(b). 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               2


Respondents' motion for summary disposition. 4/  We do not anticipate any further filings with 
respect to that matter.  

       We have determined that disclosure of certain information included in the documents 
now filed with us may be necessary to the resolution of the issues before the Commission and the 
Hearing Officer. 

       Accordingly, IT IS ORDERED that: 

       1.  Except as otherwise provided in this Order, the documents Hall and Meyer provided 
shall be disclosed only to the parties to this action, their counsel, the Hearing Officer, the 
Commission, any staff advising the Commission in its deliberative processes with respect to this 
proceeding, and in the event of an appeal of the Commission's determination, any staff acting for 
the Commission in connection with that appeal. 

       2.  All persons who receive access to these documents or the information contained in 
these documents shall keep them confidential and, except as provided in this Order, shall not 
divulge the documents or information to any person. 

       3.  No person to whom the documents or information covered by this Order is disclosed 
shall make any copies or otherwise use such documents or information, except in connection 
with this proceeding or any appeal thereof. 

       4.  The Office of the Secretary shall place the documents in sealed envelopes or other 
sealed containers marked with the title of this action, identifying each document and marked 
"CONFIDENTIAL." 

       5.  The requirements of sealing and confidentiality shall not apply to any reference to the 
existence of the documents or to citation of particular information contained therein in 
testimony, oral argument, briefs, opinions, or in any other similar use directly connected with 
this action or any appeal thereof. 

4/     Kevin Hall, Securities Exchange Act Rel. No. 55987 (Jun2 29, 2007), __ SEC Docket 
       ____. 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                               3 

       6.  The Commission expressly reserves the authority to reach a different conclusion 
regarding the confidentiality of the documents or information covered by this Order at any time 
before it determines the issues raised in the proceeding. 

       By the Commission. 

                                                    Nancy M. Morris
                                                          Secretary 
