---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                      the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 52539 / September 30, 2005 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2327 / September 30, 2005 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12066 
 
                                             ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
In the Matter of                             ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-
                                       AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS 
      Ronald Lee Hoyt, CPA,                  PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF THE 
                                             SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Respondent.                                  AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                             COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                             MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                             REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-
                                             AND-DESIST ORDER 
                                       
                                       
                                            
                                          I.  
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Rule 
102(e)(1) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice1
                                            and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Ronald Lee Hoyt, CPA (“Hoyt”). 
 
                                          II.  
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Hoyt has submitted an Offer of  
Settlement (“Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of  
these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are  

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
               The Commission may…deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
appearing or practicing before it…to any person who is found…to have engaged in…improper 
professional conduct. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative and 
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and 
Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and the Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:2
                                                                                         
 
 A.            RESPONDENT  
                
               Ronald Lee Hoyt, age 46, began his employment  at Lattice Semiconductor Corp.  
(“Lattice”) in 1990.  He became Lattice’s Controller on April 5, 1999, and assumed the additional 
title of Director of Finance on July 30, 2000.  Although Hoyt continued to hold the title of 
Controller and Director of Finance until March 19, 2004, Lattice suspended his responsibility for 
the general ledger on January 20, 2004.  During his tenure as Controller and Director of Finance,  
he also held officer positions for two of Lattice’s wholly-owned foreign subsidiaries:  statutory 
auditor for Lattice KK (Japan) and secretary for Lattice Semiconductor UK Ltd. (United 
Kingdom).  Hoyt supervised approximately 16 people in Lattice’s accounting department.  He 
worked as a consultant for Lattice from March 22, 2004 to July 14, 2004. Hoyt is, and at all 
relevant times was, licensed in Oregon as a Certified Public Accountant.  Before joining Lattice, 
Hoyt worked for six years as a senior auditor at a large public accounting firm.   
 
       B.      RELATED ENTITY  
        
               Lattice Semiconductor Corp., a Delaware corporation headquartered in Hillsboro, 
Oregon, designs, manufactures, and sells semiconductor products.  Lattice’s stock is registered 
under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and trades on the Nasdaq National Market. 
        
       C.      SUMMARY  
 
               1.     Hoyt was primarily responsible for Lattice’s material overstatement of  
revenue and understatement of deferred income and net loss in its Forms 10-Q for the second and  
third quarters of 2003.  Hoyt contributed to Lattice’s inaccurate reporting for the second and 
third quarters of 2003 by making unsupported journal entries totaling $5.5 million to offset 
apparent understated balances in Lattice’s deferred revenue account.  Hoyt failed to tell anyone 
at Lattice about the material discrepancies in the deferred revenue account or his unsupported 
journal entries.  He also misrepresented to Lattice’s auditor that there were no unusual or non-
recurring journal entries. 
 
               2.     In mid-January 2004, Hoyt reported his actions to Lattice’s Vice President 
of Finance.  Lattice began an internal investigation.  Upon completion of its internal 

                                                 
2
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding 
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
                                                2
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       investigation in April 2004, Lattice acknowledged that it had                                          internal controls weaknesses, 
       including a failure to have a sufficient check on Hoyt’s ability to make entries to the general 
       ledger, had prematurely recognized revenue, and had restated its financial statements for the first 
       three quarters of 2003.3
                                 As a result of the restatements, Lattice’s previously reported revenue for 
       the first nine months of 2003 decreased by $10.6 million (an approximate 6% decrease) and its 
       previously reported loss for the period increased by $8.9 million (an approximate 15% increase). 
        
               D. 	   FACTS  
                               
                      1.       Lattice’s Business and Deferred Revenue Accounting  
        
               Lattice manufactures semiconductor products and sells them to end users directly and 
       through distributors.  Sales to distributors account for nearly half of Lattice’s revenue.  Lattice 
       delays revenue recognition on sales to distributors until the distributors report product resale to 
       Lattice.  Lattice uses deferred income accounting to reflect the anticipated revenue and 
       corresponding costs for its products shipped to distributors but not yet sold to end users.  For 
       example, when Lattice ships a product to a distributor, it records in its general ledger the product’s 
       list price as deferred revenue and the cost as deferred cost.  Deferred income is the balance sheet 
       account that reflects deferred revenue less deferred cost.  
 
                      2. 	    Hoyt’s Cross-Check    of the Deferred Revenue Account in the General  
                              Ledger        
 
                At the close of each quarter, Hoyt performed an account reconciliation to cross-check the 
       accuracy of Lattice’s estimate of deferred revenue as reflected in the general ledger.  This test was 
       based on the carrying value of the Lattice inventory sitting on distributors’ shelves and provided an 
       estimate of the minimum deferred revenue balance required to reflect sales of this inventory. 
       Lattice’s accounting polices provided that if there was no material discrepancy between the 
       estimate of deferred revenue and the amount of deferred revenue reflected in Lattice’s general 
       ledger, Hoyt could conclude that the general ledger was accurate and close the books for the 
       quarter. 
                
                      3.      The Discrepancies and Unsupported Journal Entries  
        
                              (a)	      The Second Quarter Discrepancy of $1.3 Million and Hoyt’s  
                                      Unsupported Journal Entries to Reconcile the Discrepancy  
 
               In July 2003, while preparing Lattice’s financial statements for the second quarter, Hoyt  
       performed his usual reconciliation of the deferred revenue account.  The reconciliation showed that  
       the estimate of deferred revenue was $1.3 million higher than the deferred revenue balance on the 
       general ledger, indicating an understatement  of Lattice’s deferred revenue account.  He  
       recalculated the reconciliation but found no mechanical error.  He then considered possible reasons 

                                                        
       3
         Although Lattice restated its financial statements for the first quarter of 2003, that first quarter 
       restatement is not a part of this Order. 
                                                        3
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

for the discrepancy and theorized, incorrectly, that there were two sources of future (deferred)  
revenue that should have been accounted for in the general ledger.  To account for these 
“previously unidentified” sources of deferred revenue, Hoyt wrote and caused the entry of two 
unsupported journal entries totaling $1.3 million to  offset the imbalance between the general ledger  
and the deferred revenue estimate.  Hoyt made  these journal entries without telling anyone at 
Lattice, and without investigating further to determine whether these suspected sources of deferred 
revenue actually caused the discrepancy, and if so, in what amounts.  After making the 
unsupported journal entries, Hoyt closed the books for the second quarter.   
        
       Hoyt failed to realize that the company’s method of calculating revenue from sales to  
distributors had become inaccurate.  This in turn caused Lattice to recognize revenue prematurely  
and overstate its reported revenue and understate its reported deferred revenue.  Instead of creating 
journal entries that decreased revenue and increased deferred revenue, Hoyt created the  
unsupported journal entries that inappropriately allowed Lattice to recognize revenue prematurely. 
                
                      (b) 	   The Third Quarter Discrepancy of $5.5 Million and Hoyt’s 
                              Unsupported Journal Entries to Reconcile the Discrepancy  
 
       At the end of the third quarter, Hoyt again performed his customary reconciliation to cross-
check the amount of deferred revenue recorded in the general ledger.  This time, the discrepancy 
was $5.5 million. Hoyt theorized that the reasons for the imbalance were the same as in the 
previous quarter.  Based on his erroneous theory, Hoyt wrote and caused the entry of several 
unsupported journal entries, totaling $5.5 million (inclusive of the $1.3 million of unsupported 
journal entries from the second quarter), to offset the imbalance and close the books for the quarter.  
These journal entries increased deferred revenue and decreased unrelated accounts including 
accrued engineering cost and subsidiary accrued payroll.  Hoyt spread out the journal entries in this 
manner to avoid taking the accrued liabilities accounts below zero.  Had any of the liability 
accounts fallen below zero, the negative balance may have signaled a problem to the auditor.   
 
       Hoyt’s use of unsupported journal entries in the second and third quarters of 2003 
contributed to recognition of revenue  contrary to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
(GAAP).  Statement of  Financial Accounting Concepts No. 5, “Recognition and Measurement in 
Financial Statements of Business Enterprises” (CON 5), provides that “revenues are considered to  
be earned when the entity has substantially accomplished what it must do to be entitled to the 
benefits represented by the revenue.”  CON 5 Para. 83.  Hoyt knew there was a shortfall in 
deferred revenue that he could not explain.  Rather than bringing the issue to his superiors or the 
auditor (which was on-site at Lattice to review quarterly financial records), Hoyt told no one, 
concealed the imbalance, and prepared unsupported journal entries that contributed to Lattice’s 
overstatement of revenue and understatement of net loss.  

                                                4
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 
               4. 	   Hoyt’s Representations to Lattice’s Auditor That There Had Been No 
                      Unusual or Nonrecurring Journal Entries  
 
       Hoyt had significant responsibility for the preparation of  quarterly reports, including 
meeting with its outside auditor, completing disclosure checklists and management representation 
letters, and supplying some of the content for the quarterly reports.  At the end of the second and 
third quarters, in connection with the auditor’s quarterly review of Lattice’s financial statements, 
Hoyt and Lattice’s Vice President of Finance met with the auditor and discussed whether there had 
been any unusual transactions.  Hoyt represented that there had been no unusual transactions.  
Separately the auditor asked Hoyt whether there had been any unusual or non-recurring journal 
entries and Hoyt falsely represented that there had not.  
 
       Each quarter, Hoyt completed a detailed checklist provided to the auditor to ensure that 
Lattice’s finance department considered all required disclosures.  Hoyt falsely represented in these  
checklists for the second and third quarters of 2003, which he submitted to the auditor, that there 
were no unusual or nonrecurring journal entries.   
 
       For the second and third quarters of 2003, Hoyt signed management representation letters 
that falsely represented to the auditor that Lattice’s financial statements contained no unusual or 
nonrecurring journal entries.  Hoyt understood that Lattice’s auditor would rely on these  
representations in its review of Lattice’s financial statements for the Forms 10-Q.   
 
       Finally, Hoyt drafted the first footnote to the financial statements in Lattice’s Forms 10-Q 
for the second and third quarters of 2003, which falsely stated that the financial statements  
“. . . include all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments,” (emphasis added) 
necessary for the fair statement of results for the interim period.   
 
               5.     Hoyt’s Disclosure of    the Unsupported Journal Entries   
 
       On January 12, 2004, Hoyt disclosed to the Vice President of Finance the second and third 
quarter general ledger imbalances of $1.3 million and $5.5 million, respectively.  He also explained 
his theories for the causes of the imbalances and provided the unsupported journal entries used to 
“correct” the imbalances.    
  
       When Lattice learned of Hoyt’s incorrect actions, it relieved Hoyt of responsibility for 
journal entries and the general ledger and began an  internal investigation.   As a result of the 
investigation, Lattice  changed the method of estimating deferred revenue and restated all three 
2003 Forms 10-Q on April 19, 2004, reducing previously reported revenue by $10.6 million (an 
approximate 6% decrease) and increasing previously reported net loss by $8.9 million (an 
approximate 15% increase).  

                                                5
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 E.	          VIOLATIONS  
        
              1. 	    Reporting Violations:  Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule  
                      13a-13 Thereunder  
        
       Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-13 thereunder require issuers with 
securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act to file quarterly reports with the 
Commission and to keep this information current.  The obligation to file such reports embodies 
the requirement that they  be true and correct.  See, e.g., SEC v. Savoy Indus., Inc., 587 F.2d 
1149, 1165 (D.C. Cir. 1978). 

       For the second and third quarters of 2003, Hoyt caused Lattice to file false and 
misleading quarterly reports with the Commission that misrepresented Lattice’s financial 
condition by overstating revenue and understating net loss.  Hoyt caused Lattice’s violations of 
Section 13(a) and Rule 13a-13 thereunder for the second and third quarters when he wrote 
unsupported journal entries, caused them to be entered in the general ledger, and helped prepare 
quarterly reports using the inaccurate general ledger balances. 

              2. 	    Record-Keeping Provisions:  Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act 
                      and Rule 13b2-1 Thereunder   
 
       Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires Section 12 registrants to make and 
keep books, records, and accounts that accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of their assets.  Rule 13b2-1 prohibits the falsification of any book, record, or 
account subject to Section 13(b)(2)(A). 

       As a result of Hoyt’s incorrect and unsupported accounting entries, Lattice’s books and 
records inaccurately reflected transactions and dispositions of assets for the second and third 
quarters of 2003.  Hoyt therefore caused Lattice to violate Section 13(b)(2)(A) and he violated  
Rule 13b2-1.   

              3. 	    Internal Controls Provision:  Sections 13(b)(2)(B) and 13(b)(5) of the 
                      Exchange Act  
 
       Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires issuers with securities registered 
pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act to devise and maintain a system of internal 
accounting controls sufficient to reasonably assure, among other things, that transactions are 
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP. 
Section 13(b)(5) prohibits any person from knowingly circumventing a system of internal 
accounting controls or knowingly failing to implement a system of internal accounting controls.      

       Hoyt caused Lattice’s violation of Section 13(b)(2)(B).  As Director of Finance and 
Controller, Hoyt was responsible for ensuring that all journal entries were accurate and complete, 
and that he followed and properly used Lattice’s system of internal controls.  By causing 
unsupported journal entries to be recorded in Lattice’s general ledger, Hoyt failed to assure that 
Lattice maintained adequate internal controls in violation of Section 13(b)(2)(B).  Hoyt violated 
                                                6

---------------------Page 7---------------------

Section 13(b)(5) by knowingly creating unsupported journal entries and causing their entry in 
Lattice’s general ledger.              

               4.     False Statements to the Accountants:  Exchange Act Rule 13b2-2  
  
       Exchange Act Rule 13b2-2 prohibits an officer or director of an issuer from, among other 
things, misstating or omitting any material fact to an accountant in connection with the preparation 
of a report to be filed with the Commission.  Exchange Act Rule 3b-2 defines the term “officer” to 
include “… comptroller or principal accounting officer, and any person routinely performing 
corresponding functions with respect to any organization whether incorporated or unincorporated.”   
        
       Hoyt, as Lattice’s Director of Finance and Controller, is deemed an “officer” for purposes of 
Rule 3b-2, and violated Rule 13b2-2 by providing the auditor with oral representations, checklists, 
and management representation letters that incorrectly stated there were no unusual or nonrecurring 
journal entries.  He also violated Rule 13b2-2 by providing the auditor with financial statements that 
contained the unsupported journal entries.  As a result, Hoyt misled the auditor regarding material 
components of the second and third quarter 2003 financial statements. 
        
               5.     Improper Professional Conduct      
 
       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides, in part, that the 
Commission may censure or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before the Commission to any person who is found by the Commission to have 
engaged in improper professional conduct.  Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) defines improper 
professional conduct by licensed accountants as, among other things, “repeated instances of 
unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards, that 
indicate a lack of competence to practice before the Commission.” 
 
       As Lattice’s Director of Finance, Controller, and as a CPA, Hoyt failed in his 
responsibilities for Lattice’s proper financial reporting.  Hoyt engaged in improper professional 
conduct under Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) when he made unsupported journal entries and caused 
their entry in the general ledger, repeatedly misstated and omitted material facts to Lattice’s 
auditor, and then concealed his misconduct.  Hoyt’s actions also violated the Code of 
Professional Conduct of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.   
 
       F.      FINDINGS  
 
       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Hoyt caused Lattice’s violations of 
Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-13 thereunder and 
violated Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13b2-1 and 13b2-2, and that Hoyt 
engaged in improper professional conduct pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) and (iv). 
 

                                                7
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the cease-and-
desist order and sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Hoyt shall cease and desist from causing any violations and any future violations of 
Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-13 thereunder, and 
from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 13(b)(5) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder. 
 
       B.      Hoyt is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
       C.      After three years from the date of this Order, Hoyt may request that the Commission 
consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief Accountant)  
to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
 
                    1.  a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Hoyt’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
 
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
 
                                  (a)  Hoyt, or the public accounting firm  with which he is associated, is 
registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with 
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                       (b)    Hoyt, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of 
or potential defects in Hoyt’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that Hoyt 
will not receive appropriate supervision;  

                       (c)    Hoyt has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has 
complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                       (d)    Hoyt acknowledges his responsibility, as long as he appears or 
practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to co                                  mply with all requirements 
of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to 
registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews, and quality control standards.   
                                                8
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

      
         D.        The Commission will consider an application by Hoyt to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependant on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Hoyt’s character, 
integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
       Jonathan                                                                  G. Katz
       Secretary                                                                

                                                             9
 
