---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                         Before The  

                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 52878 / December 2, 2005 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 2350 / December 2, 2005  

ADMINISTRATIVE  PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-12120 

                       
                        : 
                        : ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC  
 In the Matter of       : ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS, MAKING   
                        : 
                          FINDINGS AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL  
 Joseph T. Boyle, CPA,  : 
                        : SANCTIONS PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e)  
                        : OF THE COMMISSION'S RULES OF PRACTICE
  
 Respondent.            : 

                       

                                                I.   

The Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission") deems it appropriate and in the public 
interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
Respondent Joseph T. Boyle (CPA) ("Boyle" or "Respondent") pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of 
the Commission's Rules of Practice. 1 
                                      

                                               II.   

 In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Boyle has submitted an Offer of         
 Settlement ("Offer"), which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
 purpose of these proceedings and any other proceeding brought by or on behalf of the 
 Commission or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
 findings, except as to the Commission's jurisdiction over the subject matter of these 
 proceedings and as to the entry of the injunction set forth in Section III, which are admitted,  

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
  
     The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by order  
. . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who . . . has been by name      
. . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent ju risdiction by reason of his or her misconduct in an 
action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of   
the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations thereunder.  
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 Boyle consents to the entry of this the Order  Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings,
  
 Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the
  
 Commission's Rules of Practice ("Order"), as set forth below. 
 

                                              III.   

On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  

A. Boyle, age 62, is a certified public accountant licensed in New York and was, during the                         
relevant period covered by this Order, a partner at KPMG LLP (“KPMG”).  Boyle was the  
relationship partner for Xerox Corporation (“Xerox” or the “Company”) for the years 1999 and  
2000. Boyle retired from KPMG in 2003.  

B. KPMG is a national public accounting firm an  d, during the relevant period covered by this 
Order, served as the independent public accountant for Xerox.  

C. Xerox was, during the relevant   period covered by this Order, a New York corporation with its 
principal place of business in Stamford, Connecticut.  At all times pertinent to the period  
covered by this Order, the common stock of Xerox was registered with the Commission 
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of  1934 ("Exchange Act") and traded                   
on the New York Stock Exchange.  

D. On January 29, 2003, the Commission filed   a complaint against Boyle and others in the 
United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. SEC v. KPMG LLP, et al. , No. 
03-0671 (DLC).  On October 14, 2005, the Court entered a final judgment permanently 
enjoining Boyle from violating Section 10A of the Exchange Act.  Boyle consented to the entry of 
the final judgment without admitting or denying the allegations of the Commission's complaint. 

E. The Commission’s complaint a lleged, among other things, that Boyle violated Section 10A of 
the Exchange Act.    The complaint alleged that in the course of serving as the relationship    
partner for Xerox, Boyle became aware of information indicating that Xerox was preparing and 
filing quarterly and annual financial statements and other reports which likely contained 
material misrepresentations and omissions in violation of the antifraud provisions of the federal  
securities laws.  According to the complaint, Boyle did not report these likely violations to the  
Xerox Audit Committee or take other steps required by Section 10A of the Exchange Act when  
Xerox management and its board did not correct the violations. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

                                          2 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                 IV.
   

In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to  
accept Boyle’s Offer of Settlement.  
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  

            A.       Boyle is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 

                       B. After one (1) year from the date of this order, Boyle may request that the                       
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as:                     
      
                                    1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Boyle’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company         
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
      
                  2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                             (a) Boyle, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is  
registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with 
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                                   (b) Boyle, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is  
associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in Boyle’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that  
Boyle will not receive appropriate supervision or, if the Board has not conducted an inspection, 
has received an unqualified report relating to    his, or the firm’s, most recent peer review 
conducted in accordance with the guidelines adopted by the former SEC Practice Section of the 
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Division for CPA Firm  s or an organization 
providing equivalent oversight and quality control functions;  

                                   (c) Boyle has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has 
complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than       
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                                                           (d) Boyle acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Boyle appears or 
practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all requirements  
of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to    
registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards. 
      
       C.      The Commission will consider an application by Boyle to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he 
has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  
However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the  
Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may  
include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters 

                                            3 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

relating to Boyle’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or  
practice before the Commission. 

 

          By the Commission. 

                                                                                    Jonathan G. Katz 
       Secretary                                                                           
 
      
      
      
 
 
 

                                                                4 
 
 
 
