---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                              STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                       the 

                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  57381 / February 26, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2792 / February 26, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12971 

In the Matter of                              ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                              ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
      NICHOLAS DIFAZIO, CPA,                  PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                              COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
Respondent.                                   MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                              REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 

                                            I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Nicholas Difazio, CPA 
(“Respondent” or “Difazio”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.1 

                                           II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 

1 
 Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 

      The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before 
it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds2
                                                                                that: 

A.     SUMMARY 

       This Order concerns the conduct of Nicholas Difazio, an audit partner at Deloitte & Touche 
LLP (“D&T”), in connection with fiscal year 2000 and 2001 audits of the financial statements of 
Delphi Corporation (“Delphi”).  On October 30, 2006, the Commission brought actions against 
Delphi and 13 individuals in connection with their role in widespread accounting violations at 
Delphi.  Difazio, then the lead engagement partner on the Delphi audits, engaged in improper 
professional conduct, as detailed below. 

B.     RESPONDENT 

       Nicholas Difazio, 44, a resident of Bloomfield, Michigan, has been an audit partner at 
D&T since 1995 and served as lead client service partner on the Delphi engagement for the fiscal 
year 1999 through 2002 audits of Delphi’s financial statements.  In that role, Difazio was directly 
responsible for providing audit services, and oversaw the provision of tax, mergers and 
acquisitions and consulting services, to Delphi.  He currently serves in D&T’s New York office. 
Difazio has been licensed as a CPA in the State of Michigan since 1987 and in the State of New 
York since 2003. 

C.    FACTS 
      1.      Difazio’s Review and Audit of Delphi Warranty Costs Charged to Equity 
       In the second quarter of 2000, Delphi misclassified a $112 million increase in its warranty 
reserves as a charge to stockholders’ equity, rather than to current-period warranty expenses, as 
required by Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”).  The misclassification was 
reflected in Delphi’s second quarter 2000 Form 10-Q and in its fiscal year 2000 Form 10-K.  
Delphi’s improper treatment of the warranty reserve allowed it to increase the reserve and avoid a 
material increase in expenses.  Later, Delphi restated the accounting for this transaction and D&T 
signed off on the restatement. 

       Delphi was spun-off from its former parent effective January 1, 1999.  By May 2000, 
Delphi’s former parent company had asserted as much as $800 million in warranty claims under 
Delphi’s supply agreement with the former parent company.  Many claims related to parts that 
Delphi had manufactured and the former parent company had incorporated into its products prior 
to Delphi’s spin-off from the former parent company in 1999.  Delphi disputed the former parent 
company’s right to recover these warranty costs, but ultimately determined during the second 

2 
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
                                               2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

quarter of 2000 that it would likely offer the former parent company $100 million to settle the 
claims.  Delphi incorrectly accounted for the warranty claims using an accounting method afforded 
to certain post-employment benefit liabilities that received special treatment under the agreement 
governing the spin-off of Delphi from the former parent company.  Payments from Delphi to the 
former parent company made within one year of the spin-off to offset the “true up” of those post-
employment benefit liabilities were accounted for as a direct charge to Delphi’s shareholders’ 
equity, rather than as a charge to income, and certain other adjustments were similarly charged 
directly to equity because they were considered to be the resolution of open items in accordance 
with the original intent of the agreement between Delphi and its former parent.  Delphi treated the 
warranty claims by the former parent company the same way: Delphi recorded an increase to its 
warranty reserve of approximately $112 million, and improperly accounted for the accrual as a 
charge to stockholders’ equity of $69 million, which was $112 million net of taxes.   

       Difazio should not have accepted Delphi’s view that it could use these special accounting 
rules and not the accounting rules that apply broadly to contingencies and changes in estimates on 
this warranty matter.  Although Difazio provided a memorandum regarding the transaction to the 
Concurring Review Partner with regard to this warranty matter, he did not consult with D&T’s 
national office concerning Delphi’s application of the special spin-off accounting treatment to the 
former parent company’s warranty claims.  Delphi’s warranty liability did not qualify for such 
special treatment.  Although the warranty claims related to parts produced by Delphi prior to the 
spin-off, and were referred to as such by the parties, they arose in the normal course of the 
customer-supplier relationship between Delphi and the former parent company.  The spin-off 
agreement expressly provided that Delphi was liable for warranty defects, regardless of a part’s 
date of manufacture, and did not include provisions comparable to the true-up mechanism for post-
employment benefits.  Under these circumstances, changes in the estimated warranty liability 
should have been accounted for through the income statement of the current period, in accord with 
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 5, “Accounting for Contingencies.” 
Difazio did not correctly identify the appropriate accounting guidance for the warranty accrual and 
unreasonably accepted Delphi’s method which avoided recognition of the warranty expense.  For 
these reasons, Difazio’s audit did not conform to Generally Accepted Auditing Standards 
(“GAAS”). 

       2.     Difazio’s Review and Audit of the September 2000 Settlement Agreement 

       In the third quarter of 2000, Delphi paid the former parent company $237 million to resolve 
its warranty claims.  Delphi misclassified $202 million of the $237 million payment to the former 
parent company as relating to pension and other post-employment benefits rather than warranty 
expense.  This enabled Delphi to avoid recognizing the warranty expense in the third quarter and 
instead to defer that charge over many years.  By accounting for only $35 million of the payment 
as settlement of warranty issues and the remaining $202 million as a pension “actuarial loss” that 
would be amortized as a charge to earnings over the next decade or more, Delphi did not comply 
with GAAP. 

       By September 2000, Delphi determined to pay the former parent company to settle 27 
identified warranty claims, and it drafted a settlement agreement according to which Delphi would 

                                               3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

pay the former parent company $237 million, which, unknown to Difazio, was the parties’ estimate 
of the present value of Delphi’s share of the former parent company’s anticipated warranty outlays.  
Although the agreement negotiated orally between the parties covered only warranty claims, 
Delphi’s management drafted and the former parent company signed a written settlement 
agreement, dated September 22, 2000, that mischaracterized the $237 million settlement as 
resolving two issues – warranty claims and increased pension and other post-employment benefit 
costs due to changes in healthcare assumptions – instead of just warranty claims.  Three weeks 
before the agreement was executed, Delphi management discussed with Difazio a request by its 
former parent for adjustments to offset certain healthcare and other cost trends.  Prior to the 
consultation, a Delphi manager had mentioned to Difazio that the former parent was expected to 
raise such an issue. Difazio did not know, however, that the former parent company had never 
asserted a claim involving changes in healthcare assumptions.  In fact, the former parent company 
believed the separation agreements governing Delphi’s spin-off from the former parent company 
would not allow such a claim.  Delphi management told Difazio that it intended to attribute 
$202 million of the $237 million to the release of true-up assumption claims. 3
                                                                              As support for its 
valuation of the other post-employment benefit claims, Delphi furnished Difazio with the deceptive 
written agreement and a September 6, 2000, letter from an actuarial consultant stating that $202 
million was a “rough estimate of the impact” of using certain updated and forecasted assumptions 
for healthcare claims and health care trend rates in the calculation of the true-up between Delphi 
and the former parent company. 

       When Delphi presented the executed agreement as simultaneously settling two issues, 
Difazio should have made greater inquiry into Delphi’s representations supporting the allocation 
which was now necessary.  Difazio should have known that the separation agreements provided 
that the 1998 assumptions should be used for the true-up calculations.  Difazio did not request or 
receive any documentation of the former parent company’s purported claim or any legal 
assessment of its merits, and instead relied on the representations of members of Delphi 
management whom he believed were knowledgeable about the negotiations.  Difazio should have 
known that updating the assumptions would result in Delphi’s paying that incremental cost for 
employees assigned to the former parent company, even though the spin-off agreement limited 
Delphi’s responsibility to benefits earned by its own employees who were active at the spin-off 
date and had not retired during a brief period following the spin-off.  

       Difazio also placed undue reliance on Delphi’s actuarial consultant in support of the 
reasonableness of the other post-employment benefit claim.  Although he had oral discussions with 
the actuary in which the actuary explained the calculation and his understanding of the agreement, 
Difazio should have known that the actuary did not participate in any negotiations with the former 
parent company and therefore could only be relaying information received from Delphi, and that 
the actuary was not interpreting Delphi’s agreements with the former parent company, but merely 
performing a requested calculation using inputs provided by Delphi.  Moreover, D&T requested a 
separate letter from the actuary during its year-end audit to confirm the valuation in the settlement 
agreement and the approach used in determining the amount.  In response, the actuary faxed a copy 

3 
       True-up calculations were designed to restore Delphi to its initially agreed-upon capitalization as of 
January 1, 1999, after adjustments for the post-employment liabilities recorded for employees that returned to 
Delphi’s former parent company or retired as former parent company employees during a window period. 
                                                4

---------------------Page 5---------------------

of its original September 6 letter with a cover sheet noting:  “Attached is a note we prepared in 
September regarding the impact of alternative actuarial assumptions on certain true-up amounts.  
Please see [Delphi] for further information regarding the September agreement.”  In accordance 
with Delphi’s instruction, the actuary included the amount Delphi attributed to resolution of the 
post-employment assumptions within the deferred pension balances in his year-end valuation.  
Difazio unreasonably concluded that the actuary’s sending a copy of the original September 6 letter 
and the year-end valuation was sufficient confirmation. 

       Additionally, in connection with the $237 million payment, Difazio unreasonably did not 
object to Delphi’s method of allocating the settlement, and Difazio did not gather evidence as to 
whether the $202 million allocation reflected the fair value of the release in the settlement 
agreement.  Further, Difazio unreasonably relied on Delphi’s warranty cost experience as a wholly 
owned subsidiary as evidence supporting the residual attribution of $35 million to the 27 settled 
warranty claims, despite his awareness that the parent company’s claims against Delphi as an 
independent company could be different. 

       In addition, Difazio failed to apply adequate professional skepticism in light of indications 
that the former parent company could be accounting for a much greater portion of the $237 million 
as payment for the former parent company’s warranty claims against Delphi.  First, Difazio did not 
sufficiently scrutinize a “clawback” provision in the settlement agreement under which, if the 
former parent company’s warranty expense turned out to be less than anticipated, Delphi might be 
able to recover from the former parent company amounts in excess of the $35 million it supposedly 
paid for warranty.  Difazio also failed to recognize the implications of a side letter to the agreement 
which was necessary only because the former parent company and Delphi both understood that the 
former parent company would be treating the $237 million as a warranty payment and that this 
would have certain tax implications relating to the spin-off. 4
                                                               Finally, Difazio did not perform any 
additional procedures in response to a call from the lead D&T engagement partner on the audit of 
the former parent company that he received after the opinion on Delphi’s fiscal year 2000 financial 
statements had been issued.  The engagement partner told Difazio to make sure he had 
documentation for the accounting position taken by Delphi.  In light of this call, Difazio should 
have made further inquiries prior to the subsequent reissuance of D&T’s audit report for fiscal year 
2000 in Delphi’s May 2001 prospectus offering debt securities. 

       In sum, Difazio’s performance on the Delphi audit was deficient because he did not 
challenge sufficiently Delphi’s unreasonable approach to the allocation of the settlement amount or 
gather sufficient evidence supporting the allocation.  Difazio mistakenly assured the Delphi audit 
committee regarding the completeness of D&T’s review of the settlement agreement and that D&T 

4 
       For liquidity reasons, Delphi could not pay $237 million in addition to a previously agreed $800 million for 
true-up.  The former parent company was willing to defer part of the amount due from Delphi, but the tax-free status of 
the spin-off would have been jeopardized if the amount deferred related to warranty reimbursement rather than the true-
up agreement.  Therefore, the former parent company and Delphi executed a separate agreement in conjunction with 
the settlement agreement specifying that $237 million of the $800 million true-up payment would be deferred, and that 
Delphi would immediately pay the $237 million due under the settlement agreement.  Difazio should have recognized 
that this side agreement would not have been necessary had the former parent company also intended to account for the 
bulk of the settlement payment as relating to true-up. 
                                                 5

---------------------Page 6---------------------

believed it had obtained sufficient evidence to conclude that “the accounting is reasonable.”  In 
reality, for the reasons given above, Difazio’s audit did not conform to GAAS. 

       3.	    Difazio’s Response to New Information Concerning the 
              Repurchase of Generator Cores and Batteries from the Consulting Company 

       In a December 27, 2000 transaction, Delphi purported to sell $70 million of bulk 
inventories consisting of substantially all of Delphi’s inventories of generator cores and finished 
automotive batteries to a company that was primarily engaged in providing consulting assistance to 
troubled automotive industry suppliers and automotive companies engaged in turnaround efforts 
(the “Consulting Company”). The written agreement between Delphi and the Consulting 
Company expressly stated that it constituted the entire agreement, and that any oral discussions in 
connection with the agreement were not enforceable.  The written agreement contained no 
commitment to repurchase the cores or batteries.  Nevertheless, pursuant to an oral side agreement 
made at the time of the original sale and not revealed to D&T or Difazio, Delphi purchased the 
identical inventory of cores and batteries back from the Consulting Company on January 5, 2001, 
at its original price, plus a transaction fee.  Because Delphi committed to repurchase the cores and 
batteries at a price that covered the Consulting Company’s costs and paid it a fee, GAAP 
required the arrangement to be accounted for as a product financing under SFAS No. 49, but 
Delphi improperly accounted for the transactions as a separate sale and purchase. Delphi did not 
recognize any revenue or direct profit on the sale, but nevertheless recognized $27 million in last 
in, first out (“LIFO”) inventory liquidation gains, which were included by Delphi as part of its 
year-end disclosure of $96 million in LIFO gains that Delphi attributed in part to “aggressive 
inventory management.” 

       A D&T partner other than Difazio performed and documented the year-end audit 
procedures in connection with this transaction. However, Difazio was aware of the transaction and 
his notes prepared for January and February 2001 audit committee meetings describe his 
understanding that the sale of the generator cores was in anticipation of a sale of the generator 
business with which the inventory was associated.  

       Later, however, in the course of D&T’s review of Delphi’s first quarter 2001 financial 
statements, in April or May 2001, Difazio became aware that at least a significant portion of the 
generator cores sold in the final days of 2000 had been repurchased during the first quarter.  As 
part of his quarterly review, Difazio asked senior members of Delphi’s management why a 
repurchase had occurred, and was told that Delphi had changed its view as to its need for 
possession of the cores in light of its plans regarding the sale of the generator business.  Delphi 
management also orally reaffirmed to Difazio that there had been no prior repurchase commitment 
to the Consulting Company.  Difazio accepted this explanation, based on the facts known to him, 
but did not document his consideration of this issue, and performed no additional procedures. 

       The response of Difazio to the discovery of inventory repurchased in the first quarter so 
soon after the year-end bulk sale, particularly in the face of a prior management representation that 
there was no obligation to repurchase the inventory, was inadequate.  It indicated insufficient 
concern about facts that could have contradicted important management representations or 
otherwise indicated the possible presence of fraud.  Difazio recalls knowing that “some” inventory 
                                               6

---------------------Page 7---------------------

was repurchased at some time in the first quarter, but had no recollection that the sale or repurchase 
also involved batteries.  Difazio had a duty in those circumstances to learn more about the 
unexpected repurchase so that the inquiries of management could be sufficiently probative, but he 
did not seek out additional facts.  D&T’s work papers showed that the repurchase comprised all, or 
substantially all, of the original bulk sale of both generator cores and batteries.  The invoice for the 
repurchase, which D&T neither requested nor received, showed that it occurred nine days after the 
sale.  The invoice price, compared to the original sale price, showed that the purported value of the 
inventory increased over those nine days (representing the fee to the Consulting Company).  In 
addition, Delphi’s records reveal that Delphi itself had provided the cash with which the 
Consulting Company purchased the inventories.  In light of facts which were known to him, 
GAAS required Difazio to make additional inquiries or conduct additional procedures. 

D.     VIOLATIONS 

       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides that the Commission may temporarily or permanently 
deny an accountant the privilege of appearing or practicing before it, if it finds, after notice 
and opportunity for hearing, that the accountant engaged in “improper professional 
conduct.” Such improper professional conduct includes, as applicable here, negligent 
conduct, defined as “repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a 
violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice 
before the Commission.”  Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(A)-(B).  Difazio failed (i) to obtain sufficient 
competent evidential matter to afford a reasonable basis for the opinion rendered, Auditing 
Standards §AU 326, (ii) to exercise due professional care in the planning and performance 
of the audit, Auditing Standards § AU 230, and (iii) in performing the audit to identify 
material departures from GAAP in the financial statements, Auditing Standards § AU 410.  
In addition, he wrongly stated that the audit conformed to GAAS, Auditing Standards § AU 
508.  As a result of the actions detailed above, for Delphi’s fiscal year 2000 and 2001, 
Difazio engaged in improper professional conduct on the second and third quarter 2000 
warranty and batteries/cores transactions. 

E.     FINDINGS 

       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Difazio engaged in improper 
professional conduct pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Difazio’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     Difazio is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant. 

                                               7

---------------------Page 8---------------------

       B.     After three (3) years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that 
the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of 
the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 

              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 

                      (a)    Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision;

               (c)           Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      (d)    Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 

       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 

                                               8

---------------------Page 9---------------------

if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 

 By        the Commission. 

       N                                              ancy M. Morris
       S                                              ecretary 

                                                9

