---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                          the 

 SECURITIES                         AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 52538 / September 30, 2005 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2326 / September 30, 2005 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12065 
 
______________________________ 
                                    :      ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC             
In the Matter of                    :      ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
                                    :      PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF 
       WILLIAM E. CASWELL,  :              THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF                 
 CPA,                               :      PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, 
                                    :      AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL             
Respondent.                         :      SANCTIONS  
                                    :    
______________________________ :            
                                            
                                            
                                          I. 
                                            
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate 
that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against William E. 
Caswell, CPA (“Caswell” or “Respondent”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the  
Commission’s Rules of Practice.1 
                                
 
                                          II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an 
Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely 
for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of 
the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying 
the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject 

                                                 
1 
       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that the “Commission may . . . deny, 
temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before it . . . to any 
person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct.” 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this 
Order Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                          III. 
                                             
       On the basis of this Order and the Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds2
                                                                                   that: 
 
A. SUMMARY 
 
       1.      This matter concerns improper professional conduct within the meaning of  
Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice by the Respondent in connection 
with the audit of the financial statements of Adelphia Communications Corporation 
(“Adelphia”) for the year ended December 31, 2000 (the “2000 Financial Statements”).   
 
       2.      Adelphia’s 2000 Financial Statements were materially false and misleading 
and failed to comply with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”).  In its 
Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31, 2000 (the “2000 Form 10-K”), Adelphia  
understated its co-borrowing debt by $1.6 billion, and improperly netted related party 
receivables and payables between Adelphia and the entities owned or controlled by 
Adelphia’s controlling shareholders, the Rigases (as defined below).  Adelphia also failed 
to disclose the nature and extent of thousands of related party transactions between 
Adelphia and the Rigases.   
 
       3.      Respondent reasonably should have known that Adelphia’s 2000 Financial  
Statements had not been prepared in conformity with GAAP.  Respondent nonetheless 
failed to object to the issuance by Deloitte & Touche LLP (“Deloitte”) of its audit report 
containing an unqualified opinion on Adelphia’s 2000 Financial Statements. 
 
       4.      Respondent did not adhere to Generally Accepted Auditing Standards 
(“GAAS”) when he participated in the audit of the 2000 Financial Statements (“2000 
Audit”) and engaged in improper professional conduct as described herein within the  
meaning of Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice through repeated 
instances of unreasonable conduct. 
 
 
B. RESPONDENT AND OTHE               R RELEVANT ENTITIES  
 
       5.      William E. Caswell, 48, of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, is licensed as a 
certified public accountant in Pennsylvania and joined Deloitte’s engagement team at 
Adelphia in 1994 as a Senior Manager.  Caswell was promoted the next year to Director— 
the most senior, non-partner position on Deloitte’s Adelphia engagement—and held that 

                                                 
2 
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are 
not binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                           2
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

position through Deloitte’s dismissal by Adelphia in June 2002.  Caswell did not serve as  
the audit partner on the Adelphia engagement. 
         
       6.     Deloitte & Touche LLP is a Delaware limited liability partnership that is 
headquartered in New York City.  Deloitte served as the independent auditor for Adelphia 
from at least 1986, the year when Adelphia’s securities became publicly traded, until May 
14, 2002, when Deloitte suspended its work on the audit for the year–ended December 31, 
2001, citing, among other concerns, that Adelphia’s books and records had been falsified. 
On April 26, 2005, the Commission issued its Order Instituting Public Administrative 
Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making 
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions against Deloitte, and the staff filed a settled 
action, entitled SEC v. Deloitte & Touche LLP, 05 Civ. 4119 (S.D.N.Y.).  In these actions, 
the Commission alleged that Deloitte failed to conduct its audit of Adelphia in accordance 
with GAAS.  Without admitting or denying the Commission’s allegations, Deloitte agreed 
to pay a total of $50 million and undertake certain remedial actions designed to strengthen 
its fraud detection program when auditing public companies.  
         
       7.     The “Audit Partner” had been a partner of Deloitte since June 1996.  He was 
assigned to the Adelphia engagement in the summer of 1999 and served as the audit partner 
responsible for Deloitte’s planning and performance of its audit of the 2000 Financial 
Statements. 
             In late March 2001, the Audit Partner approved the 2000 Audit and signed 
Deloitte’s audit report containing an unqualified opinion.  Thereafter, in September 2001, 
the Audit Partner resigned from Deloitte and, since that time, has served as the Chief 
Financial Officer and Vice President of Finance of a public company.  The Audit Partner is 
a certified public accountant, licensed in New York. 
 
       8.     Adelphia Communications Corporation, a Delaware corporation that was 
headquartered in Coudersport, Pennsylvania, is  the sixth largest cable television operator in 
the United States.  Prior to June 3, 2002, Adelphia’s Class A shares were listed on the 
NASDAQ’s National Market, while the Company’s Class B shares were never publicly 
traded.  Citing public interest concerns and Adelphia’s failure to comply with NASDAQ 
Rule 431(c)(14), which requires an issuer, among other things, to timely file its Form 10-K, 
a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel de-listed Adelphia stock, effective June 3, 2002.  
Adelphia shares are now quoted by Pink Sheets, LLC.  Since June 25, 2002, Adelphia and 
its subsidiaries have operated under the protection of Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy  
Code.  In April 2005, the Commission and the United States Attorney’s Office for the  
Southern District of New York (“USAO”) reached an agreement to settle the civil 
enforcement action and resolve criminal charges against Adelphia and Adelphia’s founder, 
John Rigas (“J. Rigas”), and his three sons, Timothy J. Rigas (“T. Rigas”), Michael J. 
Rigas (“M. Rigas”) and James P. Rigas (“J.P. Rigas”) (the “Rigas Defendants”).  The  
settlement agreements with the Rigas Defendants, each dated April 24, 2005, were  
approved by the District Court for the Southern District of New York on May 31, 2005, 
and the settlement agreement with Adelphia, dated April 25, 2005, was approved by the 
Bankruptcy Court on May 20, 2005.   Pursuant  to the settlement agreements, Adelphia will 
obtain title to certain cable properties forfeited by the Rigas family members, and will 
deposit $715 million into a victims’ fund to be established in the District Court in 

                                           3
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

accordance with the Non-Prosecution Agreement.  Adelphia will make such payment at or 
about the time of its emergence from Chapter 11.  
 
       9.      The Rigases include J. Rigas, his sons, T. Rigas, M. Rigas and J.P. Rigas, his 
daughter, Ellen Rigas Venetis (“E. Rigas”) and his spouse, Doris Nielsen Rigas (“D. 
Rigas”).  At all relevant times, J. Rigas and members of his immediate family held five of 
Adelphia’s nine Board of Directors positions, and exercised voting control of Adelphia  
stock.  Specifically, J. Rigas was Adelphia’s Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of its 
Board of Directors.  T. Rigas, M. Rigas, and J.P. Rigas each were directors of Adelphia and 
held the positions, respectively, of Chief Financial and Accounting Officer, Executive Vice 
President for Operations, and Executive Vice President for Strategic Planning.  J. Rigas and 
T. Rigas were found guilty, in  US v. John J. Rigas, et al., 02 Crim. 1236 (S.D.N.Y.)(LBS), 
of a total of eighteen counts of securities fraud, bank fraud and conspiracy to commit 
securities fraud, bank fraud, and making or causing to be made false statements in 
Commission filings.  Pursuant to the settlement agreements resolving the Adelphia and 
Rigas civil enforcement action and the criminal charges, the Rigas Defendants will forfeit 
in excess of $1.5 billion in assets that they derived from the fraud.  The Rigas Defendants 
have also agreed to entry of permanent injunctions enjoining them  from the antifraud, 
periodic reporting, and record keeping and internal control provisions of the securities laws.  
The Rigas Defendants further agreed to entry of an order barring them from acting as  
officers or directors of any public company. 
 
       10.     Rigas Entities consist of approximately 63 various partnerships, 
corporations, or limited liability companies exclusively owned or controlled by members of  
the Rigas family. While approximately fourteen of the Rigas Entities were engaged in the 
ownership and operation of cable television systems and other related ventures (the “Rigas 
Cable Entities”), the balance, or approximately forty-nine of the Rigas Entities, were 
involved in businesses completely unrelated to cable television (the “Rigas Non-Cable 
Entities”).  Adelphia managed and maintained virtually every aspect of the Rigas Cable 
Entities, including maintaining their books and records on a general ledger system (the  
“Millennium general ledger”) shared with Adelphia and its subsidiaries.  Adelphia and the 
Rigas Entities participated jointly in a cash management system (“CMS”) operated by 
Adelphia.  This resulted in the commingling of funds among the Adelphia CMS 
participants, including Adelphia subsidiaries and the Rigas Entities.  As detailed below, the 
sharing by Adelphia and the Rigas Entities of the same  management, general ledger 
system, and cash management system greatly facilitated the fraud at Adelphia.  
 
C. FACTS 
 
Background 
 
       11.     Adelphia had a long-standing, complex, and intertwined relationship with  
the Rigases and the entities owned or controlled by the Rigases.  Specifically, since at least 
1994, pursuant to written agreements, Adelphia managed virtually every aspect of the 
Rigas Cable Entities, including, but not limited to, conducting their cable operations and 

                                            4
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

maintaining their books and records on the Millennium general ledger accounting system 
overseen by Adelphia personnel.   
 
       12.     As part of Deloitte’s annual audit planning process, Caswell and others on 
the engagement team assessed the level of “audit risk” presented by Adelphia.  According 
to Deloitte’s Accounting and Audit Procedures Manual (the “AAPMS”),  a client’s level of  
audit risk represents a measure of the possibility that the financial statements as a whole 
may be subject to material misstatements due to errors or fraud during the period being 
audited.  From at least 1998, Caswell and Deloitte concluded that Adelphia presented 
“much greater than normal” audit risk, which was the highest level of risk that Deloitte 
could assign to any client under guidelines set forth in the AAPMS.  The specific risks 
were communicated to Deloitte’s National Office. 
 
       13.    Since at least 1996, Adelphia negotiated and established various commercial  
loans, credit facilities, and other credit arrangements for its benefit and the benefit of the 
Rigas Entities.  Among these credit facilities were four facilities, dated respectively, March 
29, 1996, May 6, 1999, April 14, 2000, and September  28, 2001, in which certain 
subsidiaries of Adelphia became co-borrowers with certain Rigas Cable Entities (hereafter, 
the “Rigas Co-Borrowers”).  As of December 31, 2000, the total borrowing capacity under 
the three Co-Borrowing Credit Facilities then in existence was $3.751 billion. 
 
       14.    Under the terms of the Co-Borrowing Credit Facilities, each co-borrower had 
the ability to borrow up to the entire amount of the available credit under the applicable 
Facility.  A key feature of the Co-Borrowing Credit Facilities was that each co-borrower 
was jointly and severally liable for the outstanding balance under that Facility.   
 
       15.    As of December 31, 2000, the Co-Borrowing Credit Facilities were  
completely drawn-down, making each co-borrower, including Adelphia, jointly and 
severally liable for the full $3.7 billion outstanding.  However, approximately $1.6 billion 
of co-borrowing debt was improperly excluded from Adelphia’s balance sheet for the year-
ended 2000 as an Adelphia liability.  Moreover, Adelphia’s 2000 Form 10-K included a 
footnote disclosure that was misleading in that it suggested that all of the debt for which 
Adelphia was liable, including the $1.6 billion owed by the Rigas Co-Borrowers, was 
properly reflected on Adelphia’s balance sheet when it was not.  This amount represented 
over 28% of Adelphia’s reported bank debt and nearly 10% of Adelphia’s reported total 
liabilities. 
 
Caswell Failed to Ensure that Adelphia’s Disclosure of Its Liabilities Was Sufficient 
 
       16.    Caswell reviewed copies of provisions of the loan agreements underlying the 
1996 Co-Borrowing Credit Facility, the 1999 Co-Borrowing Credit Facility, and the 2000 
Co-Borrowing Credit Facility, and knew that Adelphia’s liability under each Facility was 
described as “joint and several” with the Rigas Co-Borrowers.  Deloitte’s engagement team  
failed to take steps to understand the impact of joint and several liability.  In addition, 
Caswell and others on the engagement team knew that there was $1.6 billion of co-

                                            5
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

borrowing debt, which was not presented or adequately disclosed in the 2000 Financial 
Statements, and failed to ensure adequate disclosure of Adelphia’s liability.   
 
       17.    Caswell accepted Adelphia’s rationale for omitting Adelphia’s true debt 
obligations without ensuring that Adelphia’s rationale conformed to GAAP.  Adelphia  
justified excluding the Co-borrowing debt on the grounds that it was a mere “guarantor” of 
the Rigas Co-Borrowers, and therefore did not have to reflect such debt as a liability on its 
balance sheet.  Even under Adelphia’s characterization of the debt as a “guarantee,” 
Caswell knew or should have known that Adelphia did not perform the assessments 
required under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“FAS”) No. 5 to determine if 
its potential contingency for the amount of co-borrowing debt that it excluded from its 
balance sheet was “probable” or even “reasonably possible” under FAS 5 and would have 
had to be disclosed.3
                     Other than a cursory calculation, not documented in the work papers, 
and discussions with others at Deloitte, Caswell did nothing to determine whether the Rigas 
Entities had the financial wherewithal to repay the debt.   
 
       18.    During the 2000 Audit, Caswell and others on the engagement team  
repeatedly proposed to Adelphia that it disclose the full amount of the co-borrowing debt.  
Caswell and others on the engagement team inserted more explicit disclosure, including the 
amount of Rigas Co-Borrowing debt, in at least six drafts of Adelphia’s 2000 Form 10-K.  
But when Adelphia’s management resisted, and the Audit Partner accepted Adelphia’s  
explanation, Caswell abandoned his attempts to make the disclosure more accurate. 
 
Caswell Knew or Should Have Known That the $1.6 Billion Was Adelphia’s Liability 
and Should Have Been Reflected in its Financial Statements  
 
       19.    Adelphia’s exclusion of co-borrowing debt from its balance sheet was also 
improper because virtually all of the co-borrowing debt excluded was in fact Adelphia’s 
liability that had been improperly shifted from Adelphia’s books to the books of the Rigas 
Co-Borrowers.  Adelphia excluded co-borrowing debt from its balance sheet in a number 
of ways.  It (i) “reclassified” some debt to the books of the Rigas Co-Borrowers through the 
use of sham journal entries; (ii) improperly transferred debt in connection with direct 
                                                 
3 
       FAS 5, Accounting for Contingencies, requires a company to include a contingent 
amount in its financial statements when that contingency is “probable.”  Paragraphs 10 and 
11 of FAS 5 provide guidance on when a contingency needs only to be disclosed by a  
company in footnotes to its financial statements.  Paragraph 10 provides, in pertinent part, 
that:  “[d]isclosure of the contingency shall be made when there is at least a reasonable  
possibility that a loss or an additional loss may have been incurred.”  [Emphasis added].  
Under these principles, even if a loss contingency does not meet the threshold for inclusion 
in a company’s financial statements, disclosure of the contingency is still required where 
there is a reasonable possibility of having to incur a liability under the contingency.  
Paragraph 12 of FAS 5 goes further and states that when a contingency is a guarantee of 
indebtedness of others—which Adelphia claimed the Rigas Co-Borrowing debt was—a  
company should disclose the nature and amount of the guarantee even if the guarantee is 
assessed as “remote.”   
 

                                            6
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

placements of Adelphia securities to the Rigases (approximately $513 million in 2000); and 
(iii) recorded debt on the books of the Rigas Co-Borrowers without appropriate 
extinguishment of Adelphia’s liability, even though Adelphia remained ultimately liable for 
such debt. 
 
       20.    Adelphia’s practice of drawing down co-borrowing funds into CMS bank 
accounts used by Adelphia and the Rigas Co-Borrowers, but recording debt on the books of 
the Rigas Co-Borrowers, was improper, and did not conform to GAAP, which requires that 
certain requirements be met before a liability can be extinguished. 4
                                                                   Caswell knew or  
should have known that Adelphia’s 2000 Financial Statements did not accurately reflect the 
obligations of each co-borrower in conformity with GAAP. 
 
Caswell Improperly Failed to Object to Adelphia’s Netting of Related Party Payables 
and Receivables 
 
       21.    Adelphia was required by Regulation S-X, promulgated under Sections 13 
and 15(d) of the Exchange Act, to report related party receivables and payables as gross 
numbers on its balance sheet.  Generally, and except for limited circumstances and in the 
absence of an explicit and legal right of offset, Regulation S-X (Rule 5-02 of Regulation S-
X) requires (1) related party receivables and related party payables be separately stated line 
items; and (2) indebtedness not current be separately disclosed.  GAAP (Accounting 
Research Bulletin 43, Ch. 1, Para. 5) requires that notes or accounts receivable due from 
officers, employees, or affiliated companies must be shown separately. Accordingly, 
Adelphia was required both by GAAP and by Commission regulations to report related 
party transactions with the Rigas Entities in a gross presentation. 
 
       22.    Since at least 1986, Adelphia improperly netted, or offset, related party 
payables and related party receivables as of year-end, and presented only that net balance 
on its balance sheet in a line item called “Related-party Receivables—Net.”  This practice 
conformed to neither Regulation S-X nor GAAP.  It also obscured the extent and 
magnitude of self-dealing and assisted Adelphia in creating the appearance of de-
leveraging.  Paragraph 7 of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 10 (“APB 10”) states 
that “it is a general principle of accounting that the offsetting of assets and liabilities in the 
balance sheet is improper except where a right of setoff exists.”  Financial Accounting 
Standards Board Interpretation No. 39 (“FIN 39”), paragraph 5, in turn, defines a right of 
setoff as “a debtor’s legal right, by contract or otherwise, to discharge all or a portion of the 
debt owed to another party by applying against the debt an amount that the other party 

                                                 
4 
       FAS 125, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and 
Extinguishments of Liabilities, required that once Adelphia drew down on the Co-
Borrowing Credit Facilities, it had to either pay off the debt by the transfer of assets to the 
creditor or be legally released as primary obligor by the creditor, neither of which occurred.  
Attempting to “extinguish” debt by “assigning” it to a related party is not sufficient—the 
creditor must be paid or must legally release the borrower. (Although FAS 125 was  
superseded by FAS 140, effective March 31, 2001, the provisions discussed herein were 
carried over into FAS 140.) 

                                            7
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

owes to the debtor.”  FIN 39 sets forth four conditions that must be met for the right of set 
off to be proper: 
        
               (a)  Each of two parties owes the other determinable 
               amounts;  
               (b) 	The reporting party has the right to set off the amount    
                  owed with the amount owed by the other party;  
               (c) 	The reporting party intends to set off; and 
               (d) 	The right to set off is enforceable at law.   
                
(Emphasis in original.) 
 
       23.    Adelphia’s practice of set off (netting) was a fraudulent device used to 
conceal its liabilities.  No agreements, written or otherwise, existed that established any 
legal right by Adelphia to setoff amounts owed to it by the Rigas Entities or individual 
Rigases.  Adelphia netted non-mutual balances without any attempt to match affiliate 
receivables with affiliate payables to the appropriate entities.   
 
       24.    The acceptance by Caswell and others on the engagement team of 
Adelphia’s practice of netting permitted Adelphia to reflect a mere $3 million net 
receivable in its 2000 Form 10-K.  If Caswell and others on the engagement team had taken 
the appropriate action to require correction by Adelphia of its disclosure, however, 
Adelphia would have had to report that, as of the year-ended December 31, 2000, Adelphia 
had gross related party receivables of $1.351 billion and gross related party payables of 
$1.348 billion, much more relevant numbers. 
 
Caswell Failed to Ensure Adequate Disclosure of Adelphia’s CMS  
 
       25.     Apart from whether the related party transactions should have been netted 
against each other, Caswell and the Audit Partner should have ensured that the specifics of 
individual material related party transactions were disclosed.  Caswell knew that Adelphia 
and the Rigases used the CMS as a central “treasury function” for Adelphia, its 
subsidiaries, and the affiliated Rigas Entities.  Caswell knew that thousands of related party 
transactions went through the CMS.  The Millennium general ledger (which the auditors 
were aware of during their audit, but did not adequately review) was structured into cost 
centers that flowed into the CMS.  The general ledger recorded the thousands of 
intercompany transactions among and between Adelphia subsidiaries and Rigas Entities.  A 
review of bank statements would have shown that cash receipts for both public and private 
entities were deposited into Adelphia’s First Union CMS account and that disbursements 
on behalf of public and private entities were paid from  that same account.   
 
       26.     Caswell did not ensure adequate disclosure of Adelphia’s related party 
transactions under FAS 57, Related Party Disclosures.  FAS 57 states, among other things, 
that “[f]inancial statements shall include disclosures of material related party transactions” 
and specifies that such “disclosures shall include:  (a) the nature of the relationship(s)  
involved; (b) a description of the transactions, including transactions to which no amounts 

                                            8
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

or nominal amounts were ascribed . . . and such other information deemed necessary to an 
understanding of the effects of the transactions on the financial statements; (c) the dollar 
amounts of transactions . . . and the effects of any change in the method of establishing the 
terms from that used in the preceding period; and (d) amounts due from or to related parties 
as of the date of each balance sheet presented and, if not otherwise apparent, the terms and 
manner of settlement.”  While Adelphia disclosed that it “provide[d] management and 
consulting services to” Rigas Cable Entities, this disclosure was inadequate. 
 
D.	    CASWELL ENGAGED IN IMPROPER PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT 
       WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 102(e)(1)(ii) OF THE COMMISSION’S 
       RULES OF PRACTICE 
 
       27.     Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides, in part, 
that the Commission may censure or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
appearing or practicing before the Commission to any person who is found by the 
Commission to have engaged in improper professional conduct.  Rule 102(e)(1)(iv) defines 
improper professional conduct with respect to persons licensed to practice as accountants. 
 
       28.    As applicable here, improper professional conduct means “negligent 
conduct” consisting of “[r]epeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a 
violation of applicable professional standards,  that indicate a lack of competence to practice 
before the Commission.”  Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2).  As stated below, Caswell acted 
unreasonably in failing to require Adelphia to comply with GAAP and in failing to comply 
with GAAS during the audit of Adelphia’s 2000 Financial Statements. 
 
       29.    GAAS requires that auditors exercise due professional care in performing an  
audit and in preparing the audit report.  AU § 230.01.  Due professional care requires that 
the auditor exercise professional skepticism in performing audit procedures and gathering 
and analyzing audit evidence. AU § 230.07-.08. “In exercising professional skepticism, 
the auditor should not be satisfied with less than persuasive evidence because of a belief 
that management is honest.” AU § 230.09.  Moreover, GAAS requires that an auditor must 
obtain “sufficient competent evidential matter” to provide “a reasonable basis for forming 
an opinion.”  AU § 326.22. 
 
       30.    GAAS further requires that “representations from management are part of 
the evidential matter the independent auditor obtains, but they are not a substitute for the 
application of the auditing procedures necessary to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion 
regarding the financial statements under audit.”  AU § 333.02.  Heightened skepticism is 
especially warranted when a client has high audit risk, such as Adelphia.  In fact, GAAS 
requires that both due professional care and professional skepticism increase with the risk 
assessment.  See AU § 312.17.5 
                               

                                                 
5 
       For instance, AU § 312.17, “Audit Risk and Materiality in Conducting an Audit,” 
makes clear that, “[w]henever the auditor has concluded that there is significant risk of 
material misstatement of the financial statements, the auditor should consider this 
conclusion in determining the nature, timing or extent of procedures . . . .  Ordinarily, 

                                           9
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

 
       31.    Caswell departed from these GAAS standards in each of the areas set forth 
above in the 2000 Audit of Adelphia as he knew or should ha  ve known that Adelphia: (a) 
failed to record all co-borrowing debt on its balance sheet or otherwise adequately disclose 
that a portion had been excluded; and (b) failed to adequately disclose the nature and extent 
of related party transactions by improperly netting related party payables and receivables. 
 
       32.     GAAS dictates that after an auditor identifies related party transactions, he 
“should apply the procedures he considers necessary to obtain satisfaction concerning the 
purpose, nature, and extent of these transactions and their effect on the financial 
statements.”  AU § 334.09. “The procedures should be directed toward obtaining and 
evaluating sufficient competent evidential matter and should extend beyond inquiry of 
management.” Id.  The audit risk factors (which included both debt and related party 
transactions) that the engagement team identified, mandated that the auditors exercise 
heightened professional skepticism.  Instead, the audit testing that Caswell supervised with 
respect to Adelphia’s related party transactions was insufficient and did not fulfill the 
requirements of GAAS.   
 
E.     CONCLUSION AND UNDERTAKING  
 
       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Caswell engaged in improper 
professional conduct within the meaning of Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules 
of Practice.    
 
       Caswell undertakes to continue to provide cooperation to the Commission and its 
staff in its investigation and litigation related to the Adelphia matters described herein. 
Specifically, Caswell undertakes to:  upon reasonable request by the Commission or its 
staff, and on reasonable notice, and without service of a subpoena, he will provide 

                                                                                                                                                 
higher risk requires . . . more extensive supervision by the auditor with final responsibility 
for the engagement during both the planning and the conduct of the engagement.  Higher 
risk may cause the auditor to expand the extent of procedures applied, apply procedures 
closer to or as of year end, particularly in critical audit areas, or modify the nature of 
procedures to obtain more persuasive evidence.”  GAAS also requires that professional 
skepticism increase with the risk assessment.  As set forth in AU § 316, Fraud in a 
Financial Statement Audit, at paragraph 27 (AU § 316.27), "examples demonstrating the 
application of professional skepticism in response to the auditor's assessment of the risk of 
material misstatement due to fraud include (a) increased sensitivity in the selection of the 
nature and extent of documentation to be examined in support of material transactions, and 
(b) increased recognition of the need to corroborate management explanations or 
representations concerning material matters — such as further analytical procedures, 
examination of documentation, or discussion with others within or outside the entity."  (AU 
§ 316.27 has been superceded by AU § 316.46 which became effective for audits of 
financial statements for periods beginning on or after December 15, 2002, and requires 
more extensive fraud audit procedures than did AU § 316.27.) 
  

                                            10
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

documents or other information, and accept service and take all reasonable actions to make 
himself available to testify truthfully at any interview, investigative testimony, deposition, 
at any judicial proceeding related to this Order, and at any administrative proceeding 
arising as a result of the Commission’s investigation relating to Adelphia and the matters 
described herein. This provision shall not be construed to waive Caswell’s applicable 
attorney-client, work product or other privileges recognized under federal law, if asserted 
timely and in good faith.  In determining whether to accept Caswell’s Offer, the 
Commission has considered Caswell’s undertaking. 
 
                                            IV. 
 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the 
sanctions agreed to in Respondent Caswell’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby Ordered, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Respondent is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant. 
 
       B.      After two years from the date of this order, Respondent may request 
that the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application 
(attention: Office of the Chief Accountant)  to resume appearing or practicing before  
the Commission as: 
      
               1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or  
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  
Such an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice 
before the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the 
public company for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he 
practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy 
the Commission that: 
      
                            (a) Respondent, or the  public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) 
in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be 
effective; 
 
                       (b)    Respondent, or the register ed public accounting firm with 
which he is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify 
any criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control 
system that would indicate that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                             (c) Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the 
Board, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the 
Board (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                                            11
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

 
                 (d)             Respondent acknowledges      his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to  
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited 
to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews, and 
quality control standards. 
      
        C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the appli   cable state boards of  
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
         
 By the Commission. 
 
 
      Jonathan                                                G. Katz
                                          Secretary 
         
 

                                                12

