---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                            
 
 
 
 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                      the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 52359 / August 30, 2005 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2302 / August 30, 2005 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.   3-12023  
 
                                              ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
In the Matter of                              DESIST PROCEEDINGS, MAKING 
                                              FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE-
      Douglas J. Ely,                         AND-DESIST ORDER PURSUANT TO 
                                              SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
Respondent.                                   EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
 
 
                                                
 
                                           I.  
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Douglas J. Ely (“Ely” or “Respondent”).   
                                            
                                          II.  
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Ely has submitted an Offer of  
Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose 
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are  
admitted, Ely consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Making 
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.   
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                
 
                                                
                                             III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Ely’s Offer, the Commission finds1
                                                                       that: 

A. RELEVANT ENTITIES             

 1.           Kmart  

       Kmart Corporation (“Kmart” or the “company”) was a Michigan Corporation 
headquartered in Troy, Michigan, during the relevant period.  On January 22, 2002, Kmart filed a 
voluntary petition for reorganization relief under  Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code.  The 
company’s common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the 
Exchange Act and traded on the New York Stock Exchange until December 19, 2002, when 
trading was suspended.  Kmart’s fiscal year ends the last Wednesday in January. 

        2. Newell Rubbermaid           

       Newell Rubbermaid Inc. is a Delaware corporation headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia.   
Newell Rubbermaid Inc. is a Fortune 500 corporation and a major Kmart vendor.  Subdivisions 
include Rubbermaid Home Products which manufactures and distributes plastic products for home 
storage and organization.  Newell Rubbermaid Inc.’s common stock is registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and is listed on the New York Stock 
Exchange.  

B. RESPONDENT           

       Douglas J. Ely (“Ely”) was National Account Manager at Newell Rubbermaid Inc. for the 
Kmart account during the relevant period.     

C. FACTS        

       1.     Kmart Improperly Recognized Vendor Allowances  

       Kmart improperly recognized millions of dollars worth of vendor “allowances” prior to 
bankruptcy.  Kmart obtained allowances from its vendors for various promotional and marketing 
activities.  A significant number of allowances were recognized prematurely – or “pulled 
forward” – on the basis of false information provided to Kmart’s accounting department, while 
the true terms of the payments were set forth in undisclosed side agreements.                                        As a result of these 
accounting irregularities, Kmart’s cost of goods sold was understated, and earnings were 
                                                 
       1 
         The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and 
are not binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   
 
                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                                
materially overstated, for the fourth quarter of fiscal year ended January 31, 2001 (“fiscal year 
2000”). 
  
       2.     Kmart’s Vendor Allowance Tracking System (“VATS”) Forms  
 
       The principal document involved in the pulling forward of vendor allowances was Kmart’s 
Vendor Allowance Tracking System (“VATS”) form.  VATS forms summarized the basic terms of  
vendor allowances for the company’s accounting department.  Bookkeepers inputted information 
from the VATS form into the company’s computerized accounting system, where it was eventually 
posted to the general ledger.  To ensure proper accounting for an allowance, the VATS form  
should have reflected the true purpose of, and effective dates for, the payment.  To pull forward an  
allowance, this information was misrepresented on the VATS form to make it look like the 
payment was for past performance, when in truth it related to future obligations.   
 
       3.     Ely Executed Two Misstated VATS Forms  
   
       Towards the end of Kmart’s fiscal year 2000, Ely learned that Kmart needed Newell 
Rubbermaid Inc.’s help in overcoming a shortfall in allowances in the home storage division.  With 
Ely’s knowledge and assistance, Newell Rubbermaid Inc. agreed to advance allowances against 
future shipments of goods.  Ely understood that some of the advances related to sales and 
promotional activity that had not occurred during Kmart’s fiscal year 2000.  On or about January 
25, 2001, Ely executed VATS form Nos. 227901 and 227902 covering a $2.2 million portion of 
the advance.  Each of these two VATS forms misrepresented the effective dates of the allowances 
as falling within Kmart’s fiscal year 2000.  On or about February 20, 2001, Ely drafted a letter in 
which he made clear that “we did not identify the correct reasons for the VATS.”  Kmart’s  
accounting personnel entered the false or misleading VATS information into the company’s 
computerized accounting system, where it was eventually posted to the general ledger.  As a result, 
Kmart’s cost of goods sold was understated by $2.2 million in fiscal year 2000.     

       4.     Kmart’s Earnings Were Overstated  

       On March 13, 2001 Kmart filed its Form 10-K for fiscal year 2000.  According to the 
financial statements incorporated into the Form 10-K, Kmart reported net income for the fourth 
quarter of $249 million or $0.48 per share, exceeding Wall Street analyst expectations of $0.47 by 
a penny.  Ely’s accounting irregularities caused net income for the quarter to be overstated by 
slightly less than 1 percent. 
 
D. CONCLUSION             

       As a result of the foregoing, Ely committed violations of Rule 13b2-1 of the Exchange Act 
and caused Kmart’s violations of Sections 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-1  
promulgated thereunder. 

  

                                               3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                                                                                                                      
                                                                IV. 

                                                                   
          In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Ely’s Offer.       2 
                                  

          Accordingly, it is hereby ordered that Respondent Ely cease and desist from committing or 
causing any violations and any future violations Rule 13b2-1 of the Exchange Act and causing any 
violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 
13a-1 promulgated thereunder.                       
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Jonathan                                                                       G. Katz
       Secretary                                                                     

                                                 
2
   Ely has agreed to pay a $25,000 civil penalty in connection with a parallel civil action. 
                                                                 4
  
