---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                  STATES OF AMERICA 
 before                                            the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  55133 / January 19, 2007 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2543 / January 19, 2007 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12542
                                              
      :  
 :                                                    
 :                                                     
       In the Matter of                      :             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                   :             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
                   DOUGLAS WACHTEL                :             102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
  (CPA),                    : PRACTICE                            , MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                          :     IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
            Respondent.                  :      
                                          :      
____________________________________ :              
                                                      
                                                I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Douglas 
Wachtel (“Respondent” or “Wachtel”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1
            
                                                  
                                               II. 
 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.B.3. below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
                     1.           Wachtel, age 42, was at all relevant times prior to February 2004 a certified 
public accountant licensed to practice in the State of California.  He served as Controller of 
NextCard, Inc. (“NextCard” or the “Company”) from 1998 to 2003. 
        
                     2.           NextCard was, at all relevant times, a Delaware corporation with its principal 
place of business in San Francisco, California.  NextCard was engaged in the business of issuing 
credit cards over the Internet.  At all relevant times, NextCard’s common stock was registered with 
the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 
Act”), and traded on the NASDAQ National Market.  NextCard declared bankruptcy in November 
2002. 
 
                     3.           On September 28, 2004,  the Commission filed a complaint against Wachtel 
and others entitled SEC v. Lent, et al., (Civil Action No. 04-4088 (N.D. Cal.).  On October 27, 
2006, the court entered an order permanently enjoining Wachtel, by consent, from future violations 
of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Section 10(b) of the Exchange 
Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a) and 
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder.  Wachtel was 
also ordered to pay disgorgement, prejudgment interest and civil money penalties totaling $93,223. 
        
                           4.           The Commission’s Complaint alleged, among other things, that Wachtel 
 and the other defendants, all former officers of NextCard, engaged in a fraudulent scheme which 
 resulted in NextCard filing materially false and misleading financial statements in the 
 Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000, and in the 
 company’s quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the first two quarters of fiscal year 2001.  The 
 Complaint alleged that Wachtel and the other defendants failed to disclose several changes in 
 NextCard’s accounting policies, including:  (1) the reclassification of certain credit losses as 
 fraud losses; and (2) changes in NextCard’s policy for calculating its loan loss reserve.  
 According to the Complaint, as a result of these undisclosed accounting policy changes, 
 investors were misled and denied material information concerning the rising levels of losses on 
 NextCard’s credit card portfolio. 
 

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                 IV. 
                                                    
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Wachtel’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
                            A.          Wachtel is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission 
as an accountant.   
 
                            B.          After 5 years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that 
the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of 
the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he/she works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                                         (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight       Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Respondent, or the registered                           public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision;  

   (c) Respondent has resolved all di                          sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
   (d) Respondent acknowledges                              his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
 
               C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to 
resume appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license 
is current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards 
                                                  3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

of accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

                                                                             4 
