---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                 STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                           the 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  59648 / March 30, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2958 / March 30, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-13421 
                                             
                                            :        
                                            :         
  In the Matter of                          : 
                                            :       ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE                     
   DENNIS KAVELMAN, C.A.                    :       PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
   and ARCANGELO LOBERTO, C.A.,  :                  102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                            :       PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
  Respondents.                              :       IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                        : 
____________________________________ :                                           
 
                                               I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Dennis 
Kavelman, C.A. (“Kavelman”)  and Arcangelo Loberto, C.A. (commonly known as Angelo 
Loberto) (“Loberto”) (collectively “Respondents”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the  
Commission’s Rules of Practice. 1 
                                  
                                                 
                                               II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have each submitted an 
Offer of Settlement (the “Offers”) that the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these 
                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by  
order, … suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant  . . . who has been by name . . . 
permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an action  
brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the 
Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.4 below, which are admitted, Respondents 
consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of 
the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (the 
“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                             III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds that: 

       1.      Kavelman, age 38, is a chartered accountant  and worked as an auditor at KPMG in 
Canada before joining Research in Motion Limited (“RIM” or the “Company”).  He was RIM’s  
Vice President of Finance from 1995 through 1997 and its Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) from 
1997 through March 2007.  Kavelman also was RIM’s Corporate Secr   etary since 2004.  He  
currently serves as RIM’s Chief Operating Officer, Administration and Operations.                      

       2.      Loberto, age 37, is a chartered accountant and worked as an auditor at KPMG in 
Canada before joining RIM in 1997.  He was RIM’s Director of Finance from 1997 until 2001, 
when he was given the title of Vice President of Finance.  He was Vice President of Finance until 
March 2007.  He currently serves as RIM’s Vice President, Corporate Operations.   

       3.      Research in Motion Limited was, at all relevant times, an Ontario, Canada  
corporation headquartered in Waterloo, Ontario, Canada, and the designer, manufacturer, and 
marketer of the BlackBerry and other wireless handheld devices sold worldwide.  RIM’s stock is 
traded on the NASDAQ National Market under the symbol “RIMM” and the Toronto Stock 
Exchange under the symbol “RIM.”  Before July 31, 2006, RIM’s common shares were registered 
with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Exchange Act”) [15 U.S.C. § 78l(g)].  Since then, RIM’s common shares have been registered 
with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78l(b)].   

       4.      On March 25, 2009, a final judgment was entered against Kavelman and Loberto, 
permanently enjoining them from future violations       of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933,  
Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 13a-14 (Kavelman only), 
13b2-1, and 13b2-2 thereunder, and fr  om aiding and abetting any violation of Sections 13(a),  
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act  and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-16 thereunder,  
in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Research in Motion Limited,  
Civil Action No. 09-00301, in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia.  
Kavelman and Loberto were ordered to pay disgorgement of their ill-gotten gains plus prejudgment 
interest, which was deemed satisfied based on the prior payments to the Company made by 
Kavelman ($141,146.54, which included $132,914.60  in disgorgement plus $8,231.94 in              
prejudgment interest) and Loberto ($52,638.56, which included $47,950.56 in disgorgement plus  
$4,688 in prejudgment interest).  In addition, Kavelman was ordered to pay a $500,000 civil 
money penalty and Loberto was ordered to pay a $425,000 civil money penalty.  Kavelman and 
Loberto each were prohibited from acting as an officer or director for five years.  

       5.      The Commission’s Complaint alleged, among other things, that RIM, Kavelman, 
Loberto and RIM’s two co-Chief Executive Officers illegally granted undisclosed, in-the-money 
                                              2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

options to RIM executives and employees by backdating approximately 1,400 stock option grants, 
of nearly seven million shares, to coincide with historically low closing prices for the Company’s 
stock.  The Complaint alleged that Kavelman and Loberto received numerous documents 
explaining that the Company was required to record compensation expenses for in-the-money 
options, but ignored the information they received and failed to record compensation expenses for  
the millions of backdated in-the-money options RIM granted.  The Complaint alleged that from 
fiscal year 1999 to the first quarter of fiscal year 2007, RIM:  (i) falsely disclosed in its periodic 
reports, management information circulars, and registration statements that RIM’s options were 
granted at exercise prices equal to the fair market value of RIM’s common stock at the date of the  
grants; and (ii) filed materially false and misleading financial statements that understated RIM’s  
compensation expenses and overstated its quarterly and annual net income or understated its net  
losses.  The Complaint alleged that Kavelman and Loberto knew, or were reckless in not knowing, 
that the options disclosures and financial statements in RIM’s filings, which Kavelman and 
Loberto prepared, reviewed and/or signed and Kavelman certified, were materially false and 
misleading.  The Complaint alleged that Kavelman made false representations in letters to RIM’s 
independent auditors and that both men took steps to hide the backdating from the Company’s  
auditors, U.S. and Canadian regulators and RIM’s outside lawyer.  The Complaint further alleged 
that at RIM’s July 2006 annual general meeting, Kavelman denied that RIM was backdating 
options.  The Complaint alleged that Kavelman and Loberto circumvented internal accounting 
controls and falsified books and records with regard to the backdated option grants.  Finally, the 
Complaint alleged that as a result of the Company's internal review, Kavelman and Loberto 
stepped down from their positions  in RIM’s finance department.   

                                              IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
       A.     Kavelman and Loberto are suspended from appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as accountants.   
 
                    B. After five years from the date of this Order, Kavelman and/or Loberto each 
may request that the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application 
(attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the  
Commission as: 
      
                  1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, of 
any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such an 
application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
      

                                               3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 2.             an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission 
that: 
      
                (a)      Respondent, or the public acc    ounting firm with which he is associated, is 
registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the “Board”) in accordance 
with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                (b)      Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of 
or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
 
                (c)      Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board and has 
complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed (other than reinstatement by the 
Commission); and 
 
                (d)      Respondent acknowledges his re       sponsibility, as long as Respondent 
appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the Board including, but not limited to, all requirements 
relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
      
        C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume  
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his status as an accountant is 
current and he has resolved all other issues with the applicable board of accountancy.  
However, if his licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the 
Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The         Commission’s review  
may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters 
relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to 
appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                            M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                      

                                                      4
 
