---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                      the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
  
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 55933 / June 20, 2007 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2620 / June 20, 2007 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12662 
 
                                               
In the Matter of                              
                                             ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
      CAMBREX CORPORATION,                   PROCEEDINGS, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                             IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
Respondent.                                  PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF THE 
                                              SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   
 
 
 
                                                
 
                                           I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Cambrex Corporation (“Cambrex” or 
“Respondent”).    
                                            
                                          II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings   
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to 
Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.   

 
 
  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
 
                                              III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:   
 
                                          Respondent 
  
       1.     Cambrex is a Delaware corporation with headquarters in East Rutherford, New 
Jersey.  Cambrex supplies human health and bioscience products to the life sciences industry, 
produces feed additives and intermediates for the animal health/agriculture markets, and 
manufactures other specialty and fine chemicals.  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, 
Cambrex had net revenues of $455,097,000 and a net loss of $110,458,000.  Cambrex’s common 
stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and trades 
on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 
                                           Summary 
 
       2.     Between at least 1997 through 2001, Cambrex accrued an imbalance of 
approximately $17.1 million in its intercompany accounts.  Of that amount, approximately $3.5 
million was erroneously reflected as income when it in fact should have been accounted for as an 
operating expense, and Cambrex could not ascertain whether another $2.6 million was similarly 
booked improperly, though it also treated this figure as if it had been reflected as income.  As a 
result, Cambrex issued erroneous periodic and annual reports.    
 
       3.     The erroneous filings occurred because Cambrex failed to reconcile its 
intercompany accounts on a monthly basis.  Cambrex failed to reconcile its intercompany accounts 
for three principal reasons.  First, Cambrex did not adequately staff its internal accounting function.  
Second, Cambrex lacked a functional intercompany transaction policy.  Third, when Cambrex 
instituted projects to perform a historical reconciliation of its intercompany accounts, the projects 
were not completed.  Cambrex failed to reconcile the intercompany accounts even though its 
outside auditor provided Cambrex with several management letters that warned of potential 
ramifications if the imbalance was not fixed. 
 
       4.     Cambrex’s failure to reconcile its intercompany accounts continued until the end of 
2002, when Cambrex was forced to address the issue because of the certification requirements of 
the newly-enacted Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”).  A Cambrex subsidiary’s 
controller initially refused to sign a Sarbanes-Oxley-related internal sub-certification because of his 
awareness of the problems reconciling the intercompany accounts.  His refusal triggered a series of 
discussions by Cambrex’s audit committee concerning the issue.  In December 2002, Cambrex 
hired a new CFO with a strong accounting background, who finally devoted adequate resources to 
the task of reconciling the historical imbalances. 
 
       5.     As a result, in January 2003, Cambrex announced that it would restate its financial 
results for the years ending December 31, 1997, through December 31, 2001 (the “Restatement 

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

Period”).  Cambrex stated that it had overstated pre-tax income by a total of $6.1 million, or $5.1 
million after taxes, over the fiscal years 1997 through 2001.  Net income was overstated by $1.3 
million, $2.9 million, $0.2 million and $0.8 million in 2001, 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively, 
and understated by $0.1 million in 1997. 
        
                                          Background 
 
A.          Intercompany Accounts at Cambrex 
 
       6.     Cambrex has approximately fourteen operating subsidiaries located throughout the 
world.  In order to record and account for activity, such as the transfer of expenses, assets, or 
liabilities, conducted between these affiliated companies, Cambrex utilizes intercompany accounts. 
 
       7.     Intercompany transactions are supposed to be booked through an identical 
corresponding charge by each side of a given transaction or expense, which, if done properly, 
would have no impact on Cambrex’s consolidated assets, liabilities, expenses, or revenues.  For 
example, if Cambrex corporate (“Corporate”) agrees to absorb an expense incurred by a subsidiary, 
if recorded correctly, Corporate should record a debit to an expense account, increasing the 
expense on Corporate’s income statement, and a credit to an intercompany account on its balance 
sheet.  The subsidiary should record a credit to an expense account on its income statement and a 
debit to an intercompany account on its balance sheet.  If Corporate were to initially record and pay 
for an expense that should be charged to a subsidiary, the above entries should be reversed.  In both 
instances, as a result of these identical credits and debits, the accounts would net to zero and there 
would be no impact on Cambrex’s consolidated assets, liabilities, expenses, or revenues.   
        
       8.     Within Corporate, Cambrex’s internal accounting group, known as the finance 
department (“Finance Department”), was responsible for, among other things, reviewing and 
reconciling the intercompany accounts.  During the relevant time periods, the Corporate Finance 
Department was supervised by the Controller.  A designated employee, usually the most junior, 
was supposed to review the intercompany accounts as part of a process to ensure that all 
intercompany accounts balanced and were properly netted-out in consolidation.  To do this, the 
employee used computer software that alerted the employee if an imbalance existed, in which case 
the employee was then supposed to access separate software that essentially operated as Cambrex’s 
general ledger, to view the detail behind the specific transactions that caused an imbalance within a 
particular intercompany or group loan account.  
        
       9.     Once discrepancies were identified, the Finance Department was tasked with 
resolving the difference through discussions with relevant personnel at the subsidiary.  If no 
agreement could be reached, the Corporate Controller was supposed to make a unilateral, final 
decision about how to treat the discrepancy.  During the Restatement Period, this process did not 
occur.  Instead of reconciling the difference, the designated Finance Department employee simply 
logged the discrepancies.   
 
       10.    The intercompany accounts were incorporated into Cambrex’s financial statements 
during the monthly consolidation process.  Because of its many subsidiaries, Cambrex performed a 

                                                 3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

multi-level consolidation that generated a single, final balance sheet, incorporating Corporate as 
well as both the domestic and international subsidiaries.  The consolidation was performed at the 
close of every month, in order to generate monthly financial reports, comparing the actual results 
reported by the sites with their forecasted and prior year’s results.  During the consolidation 
process, Cambrex would identify the sum of all intercompany imbalances (those entries where 
both sides to an intercompany transaction did not book the same dollar figure).  Under Generally 
Accepted Accounting Principles, it is necessary to eliminate intercompany transactions in the 
consolidation process.  Cambrex erroneously believed it eliminated its intercompany imbalances 
by entering the sum of all the imbalances in a line item, known as a “top side adjustment,” on its 
consolidated balance sheet.  The top-side adjustment was only made on the balance sheet – and not 
the income statement – because of a long-standing but erroneous assumption that the imbalanced 
intercompany accounts did not affect Cambrex’s income statement. 
        
       11.    In fact, under certain circumstances, Cambrex’s imbalanced intercompany accounts 
did affect its income statement.  This occurred when, for example, a subsidiary recorded an 
expense that it intended to transfer to Corporate where, in order to transfer the expense, it should 
have recorded a credit to an expense account to reduce its operating expenses on its income 
statement and a debit to an intercompany account on its balance sheet.  When Corporate, however, 
did not book an offsetting entry to increase its expenses and adjust its intercompany account, this 
resulted in an understatement of consolidated expenses and an overstatement of consolidated 
income in Cambrex’s consolidated financial statement.  Similarly, there were instances where 
Corporate intended to transfer certain fringe benefit expenses to a subsidiary and Corporate 
recorded one amount and the subsidiary recorded a different amount resulting in a corresponding 
understatement or overstatement of consolidated expenses, which also affected Cambrex’s 
consolidated income statement. 
 
B.          Cambrex Failed to Perform Monthly Reconciliations of the Intercompany Accounts. 
  
       12.    During the Restatement Period, Cambrex did not reconcile its intercompany 
accounts on a monthly basis.  This failure contributed to a growing imbalance that needed to be 
corrected through a historical reconciliation.  Although Cambrex executives were aware of the 
problem – and were specifically told by its auditor in 1999 that the failure to reconcile 
intercompany accounts could ultimately impact earnings – they took only limited and inadequate 
steps to address the issue.  The historical reconciliation project was started several times, only to be 
quickly abandoned.  Throughout, Cambrex failed to provide adequate staffing to the reconciliation 
project.  
 
       13.    The Corporate Finance Department was inadequately staffed to reconcile the 
intercompany accounts.  In addition, Cambrex’s limited accounting staff prioritized other 
responsibilities, such as monthly and periodic financial reporting, over the monthly intercompany 
reconciliation.  In fact, Finance Department personnel believed that other group responsibilities 
took precedence over the monthly intercompany reconciliation.  As a result, most personnel 
responsible for the internal accounting function made only a limited effort, if any, to perform a 
monthly reconciliation.  These personnel rarely communicated with Cambrex subsidiaries 
concerning discrepancies in intercompany accounts, and did not ensure that such discrepancies 

                                                 4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

were remedied, but only logged the existence of these unresolved balances.  Furthermore, the 
Finance Department experienced considerable staff turnover and new employees were not trained 
to handle the monthly reconciliation. 
 
       14.    The individuals directly responsible for supervising these employees were aware 
that the intercompany imbalances were not being fully reconciled on a monthly basis and that the 
Finance Department was not properly staffed to do so.  As a result, these individuals took 
insufficient steps to ensure that the intercompany accounts were regularly reconciled. 
 
       15.    Although Cambrex maintained an intercompany transaction policy, it was not 
shown to various employees responsible for its implementation.  The policy’s instructions were not 
followed because several individuals tasked with reconciling the intercompany accounts never saw 
the document.  In addition, this document offered conflicting guidance by simultaneously 
mandating that the accounts be reconciled on a monthly basis and allowing unreconciled items to 
be carried into the following month.  It was also unclear whether the document was intended to 
cover all intercompany transactions or a more limited subset of transactions.  Moreover, while the 
document required that a schedule of all intercompany balances be completed and sent to 
Corporate as part of the quarterly reporting process, such schedules were not always prepared.  
 
       16.    A supervisor responsible for the reconciliation of the intercompany accounts was 
aware of an intercompany transaction policy and knew that certain steps outlined in the policy 
were being taken, yet he did not recall reviewing it or consulting it.  Although at various times the 
company set out to perform a historical reconciliation – often terming the project a “high priority” 
– the project was never completed.  Cambrex failed to complete the historical reconciliation even 
though Cambrex’s auditor warned that Cambrex’s failure to properly reconcile the unbalanced 
accounts could affect the reported income statement in its financial disclosures. 
 
C.          Cambrex Failed to Reconcile the Historical Imbalance in its Intercompany Accounts. 
 
       17.    By failing to reconcile the intercompany accounts on a monthly basis, Cambrex 
generated a lengthy backlog of unreconciled entries.  In order to determine the proper treatment of 
the entries underlying the imbalance, it became necessary to perform a historical reconciliation of 
the intercompany accounts.   
 
       18.    However, during the Restatement Period, Cambrex did not reconcile the historical 
imbalance.  This failure occurred because Cambrex did not employ sufficient personnel to perform 
the historical reconciliation and Cambrex never completed several reconciliation initiatives.  These 
failures occurred even though Cambrex’s auditor warned that Cambrex’s failure to properly 
reconcile the unbalanced accounts could affect the reported income statement in Cambrex’s 
financial disclosures. 
 
       19.    Cambrex relied on its internal accounting personnel to reconcile the imbalanced 
historical entries.  However, much like the monthly reconciliation process, Cambrex did not 
employ sufficient manpower or devote adequate resources to complete the historical 
reconciliations.  Again, supervisors were aware that the Finance Department was not performing 

                                                 5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

the historical intercompany reconciliation and was not properly staffed to do so.  In fact, there were 
two substantial periods of time, each lasting several months, when Corporate performed no work to 
reconcile the historical imbalance.  
        
       20.    Each year between 1999 and 2001, Cambrex instituted projects, at the direction of 
Finance Department supervisors, to reconcile the historical intercompany account imbalance.  
None of the reconciliation projects, one of which included assistance from an employee outside the 
Finance Department and an accountant employed by Cambrex’s outside auditor, was completed, 
and many steps set forth in the various plans were either not taken or left incomplete.  Furthermore, 
Cambrex supervisors never took adequate steps to determine whether the internal accounting 
personnel had reconciled the intercompany account imbalances or why these tasks had not been 
completed.  
        
       21.    Even when Cambrex identified a serious problem within the intercompany 
accounts, it took insufficient corrective steps.  For instance, during 2001, Cambrex discovered that 
a subsidiary had been consistently incorrectly booking payments for fringe benefits.  Upon 
discovering these errors, Cambrex and its personnel had direct evidence that a certain portion of 
the reconciliation resulted in an income effect on its P&L, which refuted a long-standing 
assumption about the nature of the imbalances.  Yet, even after learning of this error, Cambrex did 
not take adequate measures to complete the historical reconciliation and determine the full extent 
of any adjustment needed to be made. 
                                      
        
D.          Cambrex Did Not Adequately Address Management Letters From its Auditor. 
   
       22.    Cambrex failed to reconcile the historical intercompany imbalance in spite of 
several annual warnings by its auditor of the consequences of such a failure. 
 
       23.    In early 1999, Cambrex’s outside auditor issued a management letter to Cambrex 
for its audit for the year ended December 31, 1998 (“1998 Management Letter”).  The 1998 
Management Letter outlined key issues arising from that year’s audit and recommended changes.  
Among the suggestions was a recommendation titled: “Reconciliations over Intercompany 
Transactions Should Be Improved.”  
                                    The recommendation stated the following: 
 
       The Company should improve the adequacy of intercompany balance reconciliations.  This 
       issue, if not addressed, may result in a misstatement of intercompany accounts and not 
       allow for proper elimination of such at the consolidated level.  This could result in an 
       unfavorable impact to earnings in the period discovered. 
        
       We recommend that the Company implement procedures to identify and reconcile 
       intercompany transactions. 
        
       24.    In its response to the 1998 Management Letter, Cambrex’s management stated that 
it agreed with its outside auditor’s observation and recommendation.  It also stated that, “[a] draft 
policy is currently issued which addresses the procedures required to confirm intercompany 
balances between subsidiaries on a monthly basis.”  The 1998 Management Letter, along with 

                                                6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

Cambrex management’s response, were provided to Cambrex’s audit committee. 
 
       25.    After receiving the 1998 Management Letter, neither Cambrex management, nor its 
audit committee, took the necessary steps to reconcile the historical imbalances or address the 
failures to reconcile the accounts on a monthly basis.  Furthermore, no steps were taken to 
determine if Cambrex’s accounting department was following the intercompany policy. 
 
       26.    Cambrex’s auditor issued another management letter to Cambrex in the beginning 
of 2000, which covered the 1999 audit.  In this letter, the auditor stated that Cambrex did not have 
an intercompany policy and did not perform periodic reconciliation of balances.  Cambrex’s 
auditor warned that, if unchecked, the unreconciled accounts could result in an inability to “detect a 
misstatement” and “an unexpected and unfavorable impact to earnings in the period discovered.”  
Cambrex’s auditor recommended that Cambrex “implement procedures to reconcile intercompany 
account balances at least quarterly.”  In its response, Cambrex noted that it had “initiated a project 
to bring intercompany accounts into balance” and, once finished, they would be “reconciled 
formally as part of the quarterly management reporting process.”  Cambrex also claimed to be 
evaluating “the feasibility of implementing an automated balancing feature for intercompany 
transactions in the [computer] system.”  The management letter for the 1999 audit, and Cambrex 
management’s response were provided to Cambrex’s audit committee. 
 
       27.    Again, Cambrex did not follow through in its response and, as a result, did not 
fulfill the steps needed to reconcile the intercompany and group loan accounts.  The project that 
Cambrex initiated to reconcile the accounts was never completed.  Cambrex also did not begin 
formally reconciling the account balances on a quarterly basis, and an automated balancing feature 
was not implemented. 
 
       28.    During the next two years, Cambrex’s auditor provided Cambrex with management 
letters for the 2000 and 2001 audits that were not distributed to the audit committee.  In the 
management letters, the auditor stated that periodic reconciliations of intercompany balances were 
still not being performed, and reiterated their recommendation that Cambrex implement procedures 
to reconcile intercompany balances on a quarterly basis.  It was also noted that the management 
letter from 2000 (for the 1999 audit) was still applicable.  Cambrex management did not provide a 
response to these comments. 
 
E.          Effect of Sarbanes-Oxley Act on the Reconciliation Project 
 
       29.    Cambrex did not adequately address its historical reconciliation problems until the 
end of 2002, after issues were raised concerning the certification of Cambrex’s financial 
disclosures pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley.  In order to complete the CEO and CFO certifications 
required by Sarbanes-Oxley, Cambrex required sub-certifications from all of its Corporate and 
subsidiary Controllers concerning the accuracy of its financial reporting.  When the controller for 
one of Cambrex’s subsidiaries initially refused to sign the sub-certification because of his 
awareness of the problems concerning the intercompany accounts, this refusal prompted a series of 
discussions by the Audit Committee.  In December 2002, Cambrex hired a new CFO who engaged 
additional accounting staff and consultants and mobilized a strong reconciliation effort.  As a 

                                                7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

result, Cambrex finally devoted sufficient resources to reconcile all of the historical imbalances. 
 
F. Cambrex’s Restatement 
 
       30.    At the close of trading on January 23, 2003, Cambrex issued a press release 
announcing that it would restate its financial results for the years ended December 31, 1997, 
through December 31, 2001, after discovering “certain discrepancies” in its intercompany 
accounts.  In its annual report for fiscal year 2002 filed on March 20, 2003, Cambrex stated that 
“certain administrative and other charges were not properly expensed in [] prior periods” and, as a 
result, Cambrex had overstated pre-tax income by $6.1 million, or $5.1 million after taxes, for the 
fiscal years 1997 through 2001.  Net income was overstated by $1.3 million, $2.9 million, $0.2 
million and $0.8 million in 2001, 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively, and understated by $0.1 
million in 1997. 
 
       31.    As a result of its 2003 restatement, Cambrex’s pre-tax earnings and net income 
were affected as follows: 
        
                                 Increase (Decrease) in Reported Amounts 
                                      ($Millions except EPS) 
                                                   
                  Year         Pre-tax Earnings       Net Income   EPS
                    1997-1999               ($0.9)               ($.9)                 ($.03) 
               2000                         ($3.5)                       ($2.9)               ($.11) 
                            2001                       ($1.7)                          ($1.3)               ($.05) 
 
The change in pre-tax earnings as a result of the restatement represented a downward revision of 
.60%, 5.29% and 4.79% for the years 1997-1999, 2000, and 2001, respectively.  Pre-tax earnings 
for these years, following the restatement, were $152.2, $66.4, and $34.7 (millions) for 1997-
1999, 2000, and 2001, respectively.  Similarly, the restatement reflected a decrease in net income 
of .95%, 6.20% and 4.95% for 1997-1999, 2000, and 2001, respectively, corresponding to 
restated net income for those periods, of $94.2, $46.8, and $25.5 (millions), respectively. 
 
       32.    Cambrex’s $6.1 million overstatement consisted of approximately $3.5 million that 
Cambrex identified as having been erroneously booked as a reduction of operating expenses, 
which resulted in an increase in the income reported on Cambrex’s income statement, and another 
$2.6 million that it was unable to determine whether to treat as having impacted its income or 
balance statement.  To be conservative, Cambrex treated the $2.6 million as impacting income. 
 

                                                   8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

G. Legal Standards 
 
       33.    Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to make and keep books, 
records, and accounts that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and asset 
dispositions, and Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to devise and maintain a 
system of internal controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions are 
recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles. 
 
       34.    Section 21C of the Exchange Act provides that the Commission may order any 
person who is or was a cause of a violation of any provision of the Exchange Act, due to an act or 
omission the person knew or should have known would contribute to the violation, to cease and 
desist from committing or causing such violation. 
 
H. Conclusions     
 
       35.    Cambrex failed, over at least a five-year period, to correct long standing 
deficiencies in the handling of its intercompany accounts, and failed to reconcile its intercompany 
accounts on a monthly or periodic basis.  As a result, Cambrex’s books, records and accounts did 
not, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect its intercompany accounts or income 
statement. 
 
       36.    By its failure to implement a system of internal controls sufficient to prevent the 
intercompany and group loan accounts from becoming imbalanced, and its failure, on several 
occasions, to rectify the intercompany and group loan imbalance problem after becoming aware of 
it, Cambrex failed to implement internal accounting controls relating to its intercompany and group 
loan accounts which were sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that these accounts were 
accurately stated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 
 
       37.    As a result of the conduct described above, Cambrex violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) 
of the Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to make and keep books, records, and 
accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their transactions and dispositions 
of their assets. 
 
       38.    Cambrex, as a result of the conduct described above, also violated 
Section 13(b)(2)(B) which requires all reporting companies to devise and maintain a system of 
internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions are 
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles. 
 
                                 Cambrex’s Remedial Efforts 
 
       39.    In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts 
promptly undertaken by Respondent and cooperation afforded the Commission staff. 
         

                                                 9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

                                                 
 
                                         Undertakings 
               
              Cambrex has undertaken to: 
 
       40.    Reconcile account balances between and among Cambrex and any of its related 
entities (hereinafter, the “intercompany accounts”) on a monthly, quarterly and annual basis;  
 
       41.    Institute formal, written policies and procedures for reconciling the intercompany 
accounts on a monthly, quarterly and annual basis, including, but not limited to, the 
implementation of internal controls adopted to ensure that such reconciliation takes place; 
 
       42.    For at least two (2) years from the date of the Order, Cambrex shall designate an 
experienced accountant within its Finance Department to function as the Intercompany and Group 
Loan Review Accountant.  This individual will be responsible for ensuring compliance with 
paragraphs 40-41 above; 
 
       43.    For at least two (2) years from the date of the Order, the Cambrex Controller (or 
individual with equivalent authority) will certify, at the end of each quarterly reporting period, that: 
(i) he or she has supervised the Intercompany and Group Loan Accountant; and (ii) Cambrex has 
complied with paragraphs 40-42 above;  
 
       44.    For at least two (2) years from the date of the Order, Cambrex will employ its 
outside auditor to conduct an annual review of its intercompany accounts, the reconciliation of 
these accounts and the compliance with the undertakings in this settlement.  The company shall 
cooperate fully with its outside auditor and shall provide the auditor with access to its files, books, 
records, and personnel as reasonably requested for the review.  The results of the review will be 
presented, both in writing and orally, to both the Chief Financial Officer and the Chief Executive 
Officer no more than 30 days after the conclusion of the annual audit and in writing to the 
Commission’s staff no more than 30 days after the conclusion of the annual audit; 
 
       45.    Maintain and preserve the certifications, pursuant to paragraph 43, for a period of 
ten (10) years from the date of the Order; 
 
       46.    Provide a written report, within one hundred twenty (120) calendar days of the date 
of the Order to the Commission’s staff that details Cambrex’s implementation of the undertakings 
articulated in paragraphs 40-45; and 
 
       47.    Cambrex shall send all reports, notices and other written communications with the 
Commission’s staff in connection with this Order to David Rosenfeld, Associate Regional 
Director, United States Securities and Exchange Commission, 3 World Fi  nancial Center, Room 
4300, New York, New York 10281. 
 
 

                                                10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

                                                                          IV. 
 
              In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Cambrex’s Offer. 
 
              Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
              A.          Respondent Cambrex cease and desist from committing or causing any violations 
and any future violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act.  
 
              B.          Respondent shall comply with the undertakings in Section III above. 
 
   
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 
 

                                                                            11 
