---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                      the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  52554 / October 3, 2005 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2329 / October 3, 2005 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.   3-12069  
 
                                               
In the Matter of                               
                                              ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC  
      Duane Kimble, CPA and                   ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-AND-
      Carene Kunkler,                         DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
                                              SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
Respondents.                                  EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND RULE 102(e) 
                                              OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                              PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                              IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND  
                                              A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER                    
                                                
 
                                           I.  
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Carene Kunkler (“Kunkler”), 
pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Duane 
Kimble, CPA (“Kimble”), pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of 
the Commission’s Rules of Practice.1 
                                  
                                            
                                          II.  
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these  proceedings, Kimble and  Kunkler (collectively 
“Respondents”) have submitted an Offer of Settlem ent (the “Offer”) which the Commission has 
determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose   of these proceedings an d any other proceedings 

                                                 
1
   Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent  part: “The Commission may … deny, temporarily or 
permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before it … to any person who is found…to 
have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of any provision of the 
Federal securities laws or the rules or regulations thereunder.”  
                                             1
                              
---------------------Page 2---------------------

brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Co mmission is a party, and without  
admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and  
the subject matter of these proceedings, which ar e admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of 
this Order Instituting Public Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 
21C of the Securities Exchange  Act of 1934 and Rule  102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of   
Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order        
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                             III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
                                      RESPONDENTS 
 
       1.   Kimble, age 44, is a United States citizen an  d resident of Ham ilton, Ohio.  Kimble 
served as CFO of Sight Resource Corporation (“ SRC” or the “company”) from August 30, 2001  
until he resigned on December 12, 2003.  In 1987, Kimble became a  licensed CPA in the State of 
Ohio.  Kimble’s license is currently inactive due to non-payment of fees, and was inactive at all 
times relevant to this Order.  

       2.   Kunkler, age 49, is a United States citizen and a  resident of Cincinnati, Ohio.  Kunkler 
was the President, CEO and a director of SRC from May 23, 2001 until she resigned on June 29, 
2004.  Prior to joining SRC, Kunkler was a marketing executive.    

                                    RELATED ENTITY 

       3.   SRC, a Delaware corporation based in Cincinnati, Ohio, is in the business of       
manufacturing and selling eyewear.  During the relevant period, SRC operated eye care centers and  
an optical laboratory and distribution center in   the United States.  SRC’s common stock is 
registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act, and is quoted on the Pink Sheets.  During the  
relevant period, SRC’s common stock traded on the OTCBB, under the ticker symbol VISN.  SRC 
is delinquent in filing its Comm ission filings.  On  June 24, 2004, SRC f iled for Chapter 11 
bankruptcy. 

    IMPROPER JOURNAL ENTRIES AND INACCURATE BOOKS AND RECORDS 

       4.   In July 2001, SRC, which was based in Bo  ston, merged with Eyeshop.com, Inc., an  
early-stage optical development company based in Cincinnati.  Following the SRC-Eyeshop.com 
merger, SRC attempted to implem ent a new accounting software  system.  During the transition 
between accounting software systems and the move from Boston to Cincinnati, SRC experienced 
significant bookkeeping problems an d was unable to perform basic accounting functions.  For    
example, SRC was unable  to reconcile its accounts due to the fa ct that historical financial data 
maintained on SRC’s previous accounting system was, at times, inaccessible.  Additionally, entries 
were not made to SRC’s ledger until months after the accounting period closed.     

                                              2
                                 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       5.   During the fiscal year that ended on December 28, 2002, in a misguided attempt to    
correct SRC’s books and records, Kimble made j     ournal entries, and directed two successive   
controllers to make journal entries, at each quarter end, with inadequate or incomplete supporting  
documentation.  Those entries were to balance sheet and profit and loss accounts.  For instance, 
during the quarter that ended on June 29, 2002,  without adequate supporting documentation, and 
inconsistent with SRC’s physical inventory results, Kimble increased an SRC inventory account by 
$130,000 and decreased an  SRC manufacturing costs account  by that amount, which improved 
SRC’s earnings by $130,000 for the quarter. 

       6.   SRC’s accounting errors, combined with unsubstantiated journal entries, caused SRC to 
overstate net income/understate net loss by appr oximately $703,000 for its quarter ended March 
2002, $638,000 for its quarter ende d June 2002, and $47 8,000 for its quarter ended September  
2002.2
        As a result, SRC reported net income of $299,000 for its quarter ended March 2002, when  
it should have reported a net loss of approximately $404,000; reported a net loss of $706,000 for its 
quarter ended June 2002, when it should have reported a net loss of approximately $1,344,000; and 
reported a net loss of $284,000, when it should have reported a net loss of $762,000, for its quarter  
ended September 2002.    

       7.   As a result of SRC’s improper accounting,  SRC purportedly remained in compliance 
with its bank loan debt covenants for the quarters ended June and September 2002.  The covenants  
prescribed, on a quarterly basis, a maximum allowable net loss for SRC.  If SRC violated its bank 
loan covenants, SRC could have  been charged penaltie s and a higher interest rate, and possibly 
forced into bankruptcy. 

       8.   Kimble and Kunkler were aware of the accounting system problems that were impairing  
SRC’s ability to maintain accurate books and records and, from time to time, took steps to improve 
those systems.  Nevertheless, both Kimble and Kunkler failed to take adequate corrective action to 
ensure that SRC’s books and records were acc     urate and properly maintained.  Additionally, 
Kimble’s misguided attempts to correct the books only corrupted them further.    
             
                          INADEQUATE INTERNAL CONTROLS 
 
       9.   During SRC’s 2002 fiscal year, SRC did     not have accounting policy manuals or 
accounting internal controls training manuals.  SRC, Kimble and Kunkler also failed to implement 
and maintain written policies and pr ocedures in regard to recording deliveries of  merchandise or 
recognition of revenue. 

       10.   Kimble and Kunkler were aware that SRC la     cked adequate internal controls.  In 
particular, Kimble and Kunkler knew: (a) SRC’s controls governing receivables, inventory, and 
customer refunds were weak; (b) account reconciliations were not consistently being performed on 
a timely basis; and (c) store managers were not promptly depositing cash from sales into SRC bank 
accounts.  

                                                 
2
   An accounting firm SRC hired to help recons truct its books determined these amounts.  SRC  
has not restated its financial statements, however.  
                                               3
                                 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       11.     On November 12, 2002, Kunkler asked Kimble and SRC’s controller, among others, 
to sign off on SRC’s internal c ontrols.  However, because SRC di d not have adequate internal  
controls in place, the controller refused to sign off on the company’s controls.   
                                                
                 FALSE DISCLOSURE CONTROLS CERTIFICATIONS  
 
       12.    On November 18, 2002, in SRC’s Sept  ember 30, 2002 Form 10-Q, Kimble and 
Kunkler falsely certified that they had designed and evaluated SRC’s disclosure controls to ensure  
the accuracy of SRC’s financial statements. 
 
        TWO CONTROLLERS RESIGN AND A THIRD BLOWS THE WHISTLE 
 
       13.   During SRC’s 2002 fiscal year, two SRC cont rollers resigned.  The controllers were  
uncomfortable making journal entries without adequate documentation at Kimble’s direction and 
frustrated by lax internal controls. 
 
       14.   In January 2003, SRC hired another new co ntroller.  SRC’s new controller quickly  
discovered that: (a) accounts had not been reconciled for at least the fourth quarter of 2002, and 
possibly earlier periods; (b) SRC’s accounts payable was out of balance by approximately 
$250,000; and (c) SRC needed to record additional  journal entries in order to close its books for  
2002.  The controller discussed the need for the additional entries with Kimble, but was instructed  
by Kimble not to book the entries for improper reasons.  Similarly, when Kunkler pressed Kimble  
for information on certain journal entries affec  ting SRC’s financial stat ements, Kimble gave 
Kunkler misleading responses.    
 
       15.   In February 2003, SRC’s auditor began its a udit of SRC’s 2002 financial statements.  
During the course of its audit, the auditor asked SRC’s controller to assi st in reconciling SRC’s  
payroll expense.  While attempting to reconcile SRC’s payroll expense, the controller discovered  
that there was a discrepancy ($200,000 to $25  0,000) between SRC’s De cember 2001 payroll  
expense accrual and the first payroll paid in January 2002, causing the controller to conclude that 
SRC’s net loss for fiscal 2001 may have been understated.  The controller prepared a worksheet for  
SRC’s auditors that highlighted the issue.  However, when the controller presented the worksheet  
to Kimble, Kimble informed the co ntroller that he “didn’t want to take any chance of reopening 
any 2001 issues” and instructed the controller to revise the worksheet.  Reluctantly, the controller 
changed the worksheet in accordance with Kimble’s instruction.  Kimble presented the misleading 
worksheet to SRC’s auditor.     
 
       16.   On March 23, 2003, the controller approached the audit partner and informed her that:   
(a) major accounts were not being reconciled; (b) Kimble had made, or directed others to make, 
numerous manual journal entries to adjust account balances without supporting documentation; (c)  
Kimble did not properly record certain transactions; and (d) Kimble was withholding information 
from and providing misleading information to Kunkler and SRC’s auditor.    
 

                                               4
                                
---------------------Page 5---------------------

        COMPANY FILES FALSE AND MISLEADING FORMS 12b-25 AND 8-K 
 
       17.   Between March 24 and 25, 2003, the audit pa rtner notified Kunkler and SRC of the  
controller’s allegations.  On March 26, 2003, the audit partner notified Kimble and Kunkler that a  
material weakness letter would be issued to SRC.  On March 27, 2003, during an audit committee  
meeting, which Kimble and Kunkler attended, the audit partner stated that: (a) SRC may need to  
restate past financial statements; (b) a material  weakness letter would be  issued to SRC; (c) she  
was not certain when the audit would be completed, and significant areas pending audit completion 
included reconciliation of cash, accounts receivable, and allowance for bad debts; and (d) manual 
journal entries, inventories, income taxes, fourth quarter review, subsequent events, and the Form  
10-K were still being reviewed by the audit firm. 
 
       18.   On March 28, 2003, SRC filed a Form 12b-25 with the Commission, stating that SRC 
was unable to file its Form 10-K on time for the year ended December 28, 2002, because:  “[t]he 
Company and its auditors are in the final stages   of completing the information required in the   
Company’s Form 10-K.  The accounting for the refinancing transac   tions completed on December  
31, 2002 (refer to the Company’s Form 8-K filed January 9, 2003) has taken longer than 
anticipated due to its complexity.  Since the refinancing transactions had a material impact on the 
Company’s capital structure and liquidity, the Co mpany anticipates showing pro forma financial  
statements and financial footnotes thereto to pr ovide additional meaning to the reader of such   
financial statements.  Further, the Company’s  testing of potential asset impairment under SFAS 
No. 142 and 144 has taken longer than anticipat    ed and requires additional information from 
valuation experts.”3
                     According to the filing, no significant change in results of operations from the  
corresponding period for the last fiscal year will   be reflected by the earnings statements to be 
included in the subject report or portion thereof.   
 
       19.   The March 28, 2003 Form 12b-25 failed to disclose accurately the information that the 
audit partner had shared with SRC, Kimble, and Kunkler the day before (see paragraph 17 above).   
As a result, the Form 12b-25 was false and mi    sleading.  Kimble prepared the Form 12b-25, 
Kunkler reviewed it prior to its filing, and Kimble signed it. 
 
       20.   Additionally, SRC failed to attach to th e March 28, 2003 Form  12b-25 a statement  
from its outside auditors as to the reason for th eir inability to supply an unqualified report by the  
company’s filing deadline (which  Rule 12b-25(c) requires).    
 
       21.   On April 7, 2003, during an   audit committee meeting, SRC’s auditor informed 
Kunkler, among others, that SRC’s books were in  disarray and the company needed to bring in   
another firm to help restore its books.  During an April 10, 2003 audit committee meeting, Kunkler  
and others discussed hiring an outside accounting firm to help reconstruct the company’s books.  
 
       22.   On April 14, 2003, SRC filed Forms 12b-25/A and 8-K with the Commission, stating 
that SRC was still unable to file its Form 10-K “due to the fact that its financial statements for the 
year ended December 28, 2002 have not been finalized.  While the accounting for the refinancing 
                                                 
3
   The instructions in Form 12b-25 required SRC  to state “in reasonable detail the reasons why” 
the company could not file its Form 10-K “within the prescribed time period.”  
                                               5
                                  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

transaction consummated on December 31, 2002…has largely been completed, other steps in the  
preparation of the year-end statem ents have not been finalized.   There will be charges for asset  
impairment under SFAS Nos. 142 and 144, but the amount of those charges (presently estimated to 
be between $2,700,000 and $3,300,000) has not yet been determined.  In addition, the Company is  
still in the process of finalizing various accounting entries and completing other steps required for  
the year-end closing.”  SRC also noted in the filings that it anticipated completing its Form 10-K  
during the week of April 28. 
 
       23.   SRC’s April 14, 2003 Forms 12b-25/A and 8-K failed to disclose, as noted above, that  
SRC’s controller had alleged serious accounting im proprieties and SRC’s auditor had identified 
serious problems with SRC’s books, records, and internal cont  rols.  Therefore, SRC’s April 14, 
2003 Forms 12b-25/A and 8-K were false and misleading.  The Form    s were reviewed by Kunkler  
and Kimble prior to their filing, and they were signed by Kimble.      
 
       24.   Eventually, on May 12, 2003, S RC filed a Form 12b-25/A that stated, among other   
things, that “[t]he Company’s internal controls over financial reporting appear to be inadequate and 
should be strengthened.”  The  May 12, 2003 Form 12b-25/A also di sclosed that SRC’s financial 
statements could not be completed until certain entries and accounts were substantiated, reconciled 
or corrected, and that SRC was retaining an accounting firm to assist the company in determining 
whether the entries were accurate or inaccurate and, if inaccurate, whether “the inaccuracy was 
caused by system error or deficiency, error in j udgment, negligence, intentional action, or other  
cause.”     
   
             FEDERAL SECURITIES LAWS VIOLATIONS AND FINDINGS 
 
       25.   As a result of the conduct described above, Kimble willfully violated Section 10(b) of 
the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder by, in connection with the purchase or sale of SRC 
securities: employing a device, sc heme or artifice to defraud;  making an untrue statement of a 
material fact or omitting to state a material fact  ; and engaging in an act, practice or course of    
business that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person.     
 
       26.   As a result of the conduct described above, SRC violated, Kunkler and Kimble caused  
the company to violate, and Kimble willfully aided and abetted SRC’s violations of, Section 13(a)  
of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 12b-25, 13a-11,    and 13a-13 thereunder, which required  
SRC to file current and quarterly reports, as prescribed by the Commission, and to include in those 
reports any further material information that might be necessary to make the required statements in 
those reports not misleading, in light of the circumstances under which the statements were made. 
 
       27.   As a result of the conduct described above, SRC violated, Kunkler and Kimble caused  
the company to violate, and Ki  mble willfully aided and abetted SRC’s violation of, Section 
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, which require s reporting companies to make and keep books,   
records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their transactions   
and dispositions of their assets.  
 
       28.   As a result of the conduct described above, SRC violated, Kunkler and Kimble caused  
the company to violate, and Ki  mble willfully aided and abetted SRC’s violation of, Section 
                                               6
                                 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, which requires all reporting companies to devise and maintain a  
system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP  
and to maintain accountability for assets. 
 
       29.   As a result of the conduct described above, Kimble willfully violated Section 13(b)(5)  
of the Exchange Act by knowingly failing to implement a system of    internal accounting controls 
and knowingly falsifying SRC books, records and accounts.  Kunkler violated Section 13(b)(5) of 
the Exchange Act by knowingly failing to implement a system of internal accounting controls.   
 
       30.   As a result of the conduct described above,  Kimble willfully violated Exchange Act  
Rule 13b2-1 by directly or indirectly falsifying and causing to be falsified SRC books, records, and 
accounts.  
 
       31.   As a result of the conduct described above,  Kimble willfully violated Exchange Act  
Rule 13b2-2 by making or  causing to be made a materially   false or misleading statement and   
omitting to state, or causing another person to omit to  state, a material fact to an accountant in   
connection with an audit of SRC’s financial statements. 
 
       32.   As a result of the conduct described above,   Kunkler violated and Kimble willfully 
violated Exchange Act Rule 13a-14 by filing a  false and misleading Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
certification in connection with SRC’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 28, 2002.    
 
       33.   In light of Kimble’s   willful violations of the federal securities laws and rules 
thereunder, Kimble is s ubject to sanctions pursuant to Rule  102(e)(1)(iii) of   the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice. 
 
                                              IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission  deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions   
agreed to in Respondents’ Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby  ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
       A.     Kunkler shall cease and desist from committing or caus  ing any violations and any 
future violations of Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-14 thereunder, and from 
causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of 
the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 12b-25, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder. 
 
       B.      Kimble shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Sections 10(b) and 13(b)( 5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 13a-14, 
13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder, and from causing an  y violations and any future violations of   
Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 12b-25, 13a-11  
and 13a-13 thereunder. 
 

                                               7
                                  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

       C.      Kimble is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant. 
 
       D.      After 3 years from the date of this Order, Kimble may request that the Commission 
consider his reinstatement as an accountant by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
 
               1.     a preparer or reviewer , or a person responsible   for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statemen ts that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that      Kimble’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the inde pendent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptabl     e manner, as long as he practices before the    
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
      
               2. an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                      a.      Kimble, or the public accounting fi rm with which he is associated,  
is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance 
with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      b.      Kimble, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, has been inspected by the Board and th at inspection did not identify any criticisms of 
or potential defects in  Kimble’s or the firm’s quality cont  rol system that would indicate that 
Kimble will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      c.      Kimble has resolved any disciplinary issues with the Board, and    
has complied with all terms and conditions of a ny sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                      d.      Kimble acknowledges his responsibili ty, as long as he appears or 
practices before the Commission as an independen t accountant, to comply with all requirements 
of the Commission and the Board, including, but      not limited to, all requirements relating to 
registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
 

                                                8
                                 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

         E.       The Commission will consider an applica tion by Kimble to resume appearing or   
practicing before the Commission as an accountant provided that his state CPA license is current 
and he has resolved any other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  
However, if state licensure is dependant on  reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission 
will consider an application on its other me                 rits.  The Commission’s review may include 
consideration of, in addition to           the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to 
Kimble’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before  
the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
       Jonathan                                                                 G. Katz
       Secretary                                                               

                                                             9
                                          
