---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED                                 STATES OF AMERICA 
 before                                           the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 54534 / September 28, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2489 / September 28, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12445
                                              
      :  
 :                                                   
 :                                                    
        In the Matter of                     :             ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC  
                                          :     ADMINISTRATIVE PR             OCEEDINGS 
                            Diane Kayser (CPA),              :             PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                   :             COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
              Respondent.                      :             PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                          :     IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                          :      
____________________________________ :              
                                                     
 
                                                I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest  that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Diane 
Kayser (“Respondent” or “Kayser”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1
            
                                                 
                                                 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               II. 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 
102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
                     1.           Kayser, age 51, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to 
practice in the State of Ohio.  She served as Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of 
Excelligence Learning Corporation from September 2004 until September 2005. 
        
        2. Excelligence Learning Co             rporation was, at all relevant times, a California 
corporation with its principal place of business in Monterey, California.  Excelligence was engaged 
in the business of distributing children’s educational products.  At all relevant times, Excelligence’s 
common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and traded on the NASDAQ National Market. 
 
                     3.           On September 14, 2006, the Commission filed a complaint against Kayser 
in SEC v. Diane Kayser (Civil Action No. C 06 5635 HRL).  On September 22, 2006, the court 
entered an order permanently enjoining Kayser, by consent, from future violations of Sections 
10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 13a-14, 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder, 
and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange 
Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder.  Kayser was also ordered to pay a 
$35,000 civil money penalty. 
 
                           4.           The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Kayser 
 fraudulently manipulated Excelligence’s books and records which resulted in Excelligence filing 
 materially false and misleading financial statements in the company’s annual report on Form 10-
 K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, and in the company’s quarterly report on Form 
 10-Q for the first quarter of fiscal year 2005.  The Complaint alleged that Respondent engaged in 
 a number of improper accounting practices that materially increased Excelligence’s annual and 
 quarterly operating income in a departure from generally accepted accounting principles.  These 
 practices included, among other things, making unsupported journal entries and removing unpaid 
 inventory invoices from payment processing.  In addition, the complaint alleged that Kayser 
 made material misrepresentations and failed to disclose information to Excelligence’s 
 independent auditors. 
        

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                 IV. 
                                                    
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Kayser’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
              A.          Kayser is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.  
 
              B.          After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider her reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in her practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which she works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as she practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                                         (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which she is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight       Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which 
she is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any 
criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that 
would indicate that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

   (c) Respondent has resolved all di                          sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
   (d) Respondent acknowledges                              her responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
 
       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that her state CPA license is 
current and she has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
                                                  3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

                                                                              4 
