---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  

                                        Before the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 56942 / December 11, 2007 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No.  2756 / December 11, 2007 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-12244 

                          :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
In the Matter of          :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
                          :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
Anthony P. Dolanski,      :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
CPA                       :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                          :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 

      On March 21, 2006, Anthony P. Dolanski ("Dolanski") was suspended from appearing or 
practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public administrative 
proceedings instituted by the Commission against Dolanski pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                Dolanski consented to the entry of the order without admitting 
or denying the findings therein but for the Commission’s finding that a final judgment and 
permanent injunction had been previously entered against him.  This order is issued in response 
to Dolanski’s application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 

        Dolanski served as the lead engagement partner overseeing KPMG LLP’s (”KPMG”) 
audits of Xerox Corporation (“Xerox”) from 1995 through 1997.  The Commission alleged that 
in fiscal year 1997 approximately $405 million of Xerox’s $2.14 billion in pre-tax earnings was 
generated through the use of improper accounting devices in violation of GAAP.  In the course 
of serving as the engagement partner for Xerox, Dolanski signed on behalf of KPMG an audit 
report that accompanied the 1997 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed by Xerox with the SEC.  
That audit report stated that KPMG conducted an audit of Xerox’s financial statements in 
accordance with GAAS, that KPMG planned and performed the audit to obtain reasonable 
assurances that the financial statements were free of material misstatements, that KPMG 

1 
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2397 dated March 21, 2006.  Dolanski was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after one year upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

assessed the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by Xerox management 
and that it evaluated the overall consolidated financial statement presentation.  The audit report 
further represented that, as a result of KPMG’s audit, it was KPMG’s opinion that Xerox’s 
financial condition and results of operation were fairly presented in the financial statements in 
conformity with GAAP.  The Commission alleged that each of these representations was 
materially false and misleading or omitted to disclose material information which would make 
the statements not false and misleading.   

       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Dolanski 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Dolanski is not, at this time, seeking to 
appear or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to 
resume appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will 
be required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Dolanski’s 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 

       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”   2
                                                            This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 

       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Dolanski, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the March 21, 2006 order 
suspending him from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 
and that Dolanski, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee 
of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in 
his practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to 
be filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is 
accordingly, 

2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 

“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 

                                                2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Anthony P. Dolanski, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as 
an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission. 

       By the Commission. 

                                           Nancy M. Morris 
                                           Secretary 

                                              3

