---------------------Page 1---------------------

                        UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                    Before the 
                SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 59083 / December 11, 2008 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2908 / December 11, 2008 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-13306 
 
                                                 
In the Matter of                                ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-
                                                                                AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS  
                      Zurich Financial Services          PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C  
                                                OF THE SECURITIES 
                                                EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, 
                                                MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                                IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-
                                                DESIST ORDER  
                                                 
Respondent.                                     
                                                 
 
                                        I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate 
that cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Zurich Financial 
Services (“Zurich” or “Respondent”).   
                                        II. 

              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted 
an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.  
Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on 
behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting 
or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the 
subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry 
of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist 
Order, as set forth below. 
 
 
 

 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
                                           III. 

              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:1

                                      SUMMARY 

       1.      Zurich caused a fraud by Converium Holding AG (“Converium”) 
involving the use of finite reinsurance transactions to inflate improperly Converium’s 
financial performance.  Beginning in 1999, the management of Zurich’s reinsurance 
group, which operated under the name Zurich Re, developed three reinsurance 
transactions for the purpose of obtaining the financial benefits of reinsurance accounting.  
However, in order for a company to obtain the benefits of reinsurance accounting, the 
reinsurance transaction must transfer risk.  Here, Zurich Re management designed the 
transactions to make them appear to transfer risk to third-party reinsurers, when, in fact, 
no risk was transferred outside of Zurich-owned entities.  For two of the transactions at 
issue, Zurich Re ceded risk to third-party reinsurers, but took it back through reinsurance 
agreements - known as retrocessions - with another Zurich entity. For the third 
transaction, Zurich Re ceded the risk to a third-party reinsurer but simultaneously entered 
into an undisclosed side agreement with the reinsurer pursuant to which Zurich Re agreed 
to hold the reinsurer harmless for any losses the reinsurer realized under the reinsurance 
contracts.  Because the ultimate risk under the reinsurance contracts remained with 
Zurich-owned entities, these transactions should not have been accounted for as 
reinsurance. 
 
       2.      In March 2001, Zurich announced its intent to spin off its assumed 
reinsurance business in an initial public offering.  Zurich then created and capitalized 
Converium, which assumed the rights and obligations of Zurich’s assumed reinsurance 
business.  On December 11, 2001, Zurich spun off Converium in an IPO.  At the 
conclusion of the IPO, the members of Zurich Re management responsible for the three 
reinsurance transactions described herein ceased to be affiliated with Zurich and 
continued as officers of Converium.  As a result of the improper accounting treatment 
these reinsurance transactions received, the historical financial statements included in 
Converium’s IPO documents, including the Form F-1 it filed with the Commission, were 
materially misleading.  Among other things, Converium understated its reported loss 
before taxes by approximately $100 million (67%) in 2000 and by approximately $3 
million (1%) in 2001.  In addition, for certain periods, the transactions had the effect of 
artificially decreasing Converium’s reported loss ratios for certain reporting segments - 
the ratio between losses paid by an insurer and premiums earned that is frequently cited 
by analysts as a key performance metric for insurance companies. 
 
       3.      Converium’s misstatements relate to facts that were material to investors 
who purchased shares in the IPO.  Through the IPO, which was the largest reinsurance 

                                                 
1
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
 
                                            2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

IPO in history, Zurich raised significantly more than it would have raised had Zurich and 
Converium not improperly inflated Converium’s financial performance. 
  
       4.     As a result of the foregoing conduct, Converium violated Section 10(b) of 
the Exchange Act and Rule l0b-5 thereunder, and Zurich caused Converium’s violation 
of Section 10(b) and Rule l0b-5. 
        

                                   RESPONDENT 

       5.     Zurich is a corporation organized under the laws of Switzerland with its 
principal place of business in Zurich, Switzerland.  Historically, Zurich operated its 
reinsurance business under the brand name Zurich Re, which operated as a separate 
division within Zurich Insurance Company (“ZIC”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of 
Zurich, and through its North American subsidiary, Zurich Reinsurance (North America) 
Inc. ("Zurich Re North America").  Prior to Converium’s IPO, Zurich restructured its 
reinsurance operations and transferred substantially all of the reinsurance business 
operated under Zurich Re to Converium.  In December 2001 and January 2002, pursuant 
to the Registration Statement and Prospectus, Zurich sold 40 million shares of Converium 
in the form of shares and American Depository Shares (“ADSs”), representing its entire 
stake in Converium, for proceeds of approximately $1.9 billion.  Zurich’s common stock 
trades on the SWX Swiss Exchange under the symbol ZURN and its ADSs trade on the 
Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB) and on the Pink Sheets under the symbol 
ZFSVY.  Each Zurich ADS equals one-tenth of one share of Zurich common stock. 
                                            

                          OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES 

       6.     Converium, now known as SCOR Holding (Switzerland) Ltd., is a 
corporation organized under the laws of Switzerland.  Zurich formed Converium in 2001 
by transferring the rights and liabilities of the reinsurance businesses that made up 
Zurich’s assumed reinsurance business, which operated under the name Zurich Re. 
Converium began operations under the Converium brand name on or around October 1, 
2001.  From that time, until December 11, 2001, Converium operated as a wholly owned  
subsidiary of Zurich.  Between December 11, 2001 and January 7, 2008, Converium’s 
common stock and ADSs were registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) 
of the Exchange Act.  In August 2007, SCOR SE, a French reinsurer acquired 
Converium. 
 
       7.     Inter-Ocean Reinsurance Company, Ltd. (“Inter-Ocean”) was, at all 
times relevant to this Order, a Bermuda corporation with its principal corporate offices in 
Bermuda, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Inter-Ocean Holdings, Inc., which was 
formed in 1990 as a joint venture between ten reinsurers.  In 1998, Zurich acquired a 
9.9% interest in Inter-Ocean effective at the end of that year.  Prior to Converium’s IPO, 
Zurich transferred its 9.9% interest in Inter-Ocean to Converium. 

 
                                          3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                               

Reinsurance Accounting Principles 

       8.      In basic terms, reinsurance is insurance for insurers.  Reinsurance is the 
transfer of insurance risk by the primary insurer to a second insurance carrier, called the 
reinsurer, in exchange for a payment or premium. 
 
       9.      Whether a contract is accounted for as reinsurance depends on whether the 
contract indemnifies the ceding company - here Zurich and Converium - from loss or 
liability.  Such indemnification is known as risk transfer.  Risk is transferred when (1) the 
reinsurer assumes significant insurance risk and (2) it is reasonably possible that the 
reinsurer will realize a significant loss in the transaction.  A risk transfer analysis for a 
contract emphasizes substance over form, and Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
(“GAAP”) require “an evaluation of all contractual features that…limit the amount of 
insurance risk to which the reinsurer is subject…” 2
                                                      Accordingly, under GAAP, “if 
agreements with the reinsurer…in the aggregate, do not transfer risk, the individual 
contracts that make up those agreements also would not be considered to transfer risk, 
regardless of how they are structured.”3
                                         
 
       10.     Where there is insufficient risk transfer, a transaction may not be treated 
as reinsurance under GAAP, and must be accounted for using the deposit method, which 
lacks the potential accounting benefits of reinsurance accounting.  Under reinsurance 
accounting, when losses on the ceded business are incurred, the ceding insurer records an 
offset to the increase in its gross loss reserves in an amount equal to the reinsurance it 
expects to recover from the reinsurer, thus increasing its net income by that amount. 
Deposit accounting has no comparable income statement benefit. 
 
       11.     From 1999 through 2001, management of Zurich Re designed three 
reinsurance transactions that created the appearance of risk transfer in order to benefit 
from reinsurance accounting.  These three transactions affected the financial statements 
included in Converium’s IPO prospectus.  In two of the three transactions, Zurich Re 
purchased reinsurance from Inter-Ocean, which, in turn, ceded these liabilities to a Zurich 
entity (the “Inter-Ocean transactions”), in one transaction directly and in the other 
transaction indirectly through a third reinsurer.  Zurich’s Re's use of Inter-Ocean as an 
intermediary in the transaction helped obscure the transactions’ circular structure and the 
fact that Zurich Re had merely moved the risk from one Zurich Re entity to another.  In 
the third transaction, Zurich Re entered into a reinsurance transaction for which the risk 
transfer was negated by an undisclosed and purportedly unrelated side agreement that 
protected the reinsurer against losses suffered under the reinsurance contract. Zurich Re 
improperly accounted for these transactions using reinsurance accounting. 

                                                 
2
 FASB, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 113, Accounting and Reporting for Reinsurance 
of Short-Duration and Long-Duration Contracts (December 1992), para. 8. 
3
 FASB, Emerging Issues Task Force Topic D-34, Accounting for Reinsurance:  Questions and Answers 
about FASB Statement No. 113 (July 22, 1993), Question 13. 
 
                                             4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 

The Circular Inter-Ocean Transactions 

       The Medical Defence Union Transactions 
       12.    In 2000, Zurich Re sought reinsurance for medical malpractice coverage it 
provided to British doctors who were members of the Medical Defence Union (“MDU”). 
In an April 25, 2000 e-mail concerning expected losses  related to the MDU contract, the 
Chief Executive Officer of certain Zurich Re entities and later Converium (the “CEO”) 
informed Zurich Re’s (and later Converium’s) Chief Underwriting Officer (the “CUO”) 
that “we need to begin working on the actual placement of the [MDU] stop loss to relieve 
the GAAP hit” for Zurich.  Internally, Zurich Re personnel used the term “GAAP hit” to 
mean the expense and increased reserve requirements associated with the medical 
defense coverage.  The expense would decrease or “hit” reported income.  The CEO, who 
was also a senior executive of Zurich, warned that, in obtaining the reinsurance, “we need 
to be conscious of the issue of circularity.” 
 
       13.    Between April and December 2000, Zurich Re management attempted to 
negotiate reinsurance contracts for its MDU business that contained genuine risk transfer. 
However, by December 2, 2000, they had not found any reinsurer willing to take on such 
a contract.  In December 2000, the CUO emailed the CEO and suggested that Zurich Re 
utilize Inter-Ocean or a similar non-controlled foreign corporation.  The CEO responded 
“we need to get something in the books now! We close our books this week.” 
 
       14.    Soon thereafter Zurich Re entered into the following agreements: ZIC UK 
entered into a reinsurance agreement with Zurich Insurance Bermuda (“ZIB”) and ceded 
80% of the MDU claims made on business written on or after July 1, 2000.  At the same 
time, ZIB entered into a reinsurance agreement with Inter-Ocean to cover a portion of 
ZIB’s MDU liabilities for the 2000 policy year.  This agreement provided for Inter-Ocean 
to cover ultimate net losses in excess of 85% of gross premiums written for the 2000 
policy year.  Inter-Ocean then ceded all the liabilities it had assumed under the ZIB/Inter-
Ocean agreement to an unaffiliated reinsurer (Company A). Company A, in turn, ceded 
all the liabilities to a Zurich affiliate, ZIC Bermuda. 
 
         ZIC            ZIB            IO            Company           ZIC 
         UK                                          A                 Bermuda 
 
 
 
 
          MDU 
 

       15.    Although Zurich Re accounted for the transactions with Inter-Ocean and 
Company A as reinsurance, in reality, Zurich Re had re-circulated the risk from one 
Zurich entity to another, while interposing intermediaries (Inter-Ocean and Company A) 

 
                                           5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

that obscured the transaction’s circular structure.  Because this transaction was circular, 
there was no risk transfer and Zurich Re and later Converium should not have accounted 
for the contract as reinsurance.  As a result, and as reported in Converium’s December 
2001 Form F1, Converium understated its pre-tax losses for the year ended December 31, 
2000 by $1.36 million. 
 
       16.    Zurich Re and Company A renewed the ZIB/Inter-Ocean agreement in 
2001 to include MDU business written from January 1, 2001 through March 31, 2002.  
At the time the parties negotiated the agreement, Zurich had already announced its 
intention to spin-off its reinsurance operations.  Due to the increased scrutiny of Zurich 
Re’s contracts occasioned by the due diligence for the IPO, the CUO requested that the 
2001 MDU reinsurance contracts not include specific cross references that might have 
revealed that the reinsurance structure was circular.  The contracts ultimately executed by 
the parties did not specifically reference the other related agreements.  As a result of the 
MDU transaction, in its December 2001 Form F-1, Converium understated its pre-tax 
losses for the six months ended June 30, 2001 by $5.02 million. 
        
       The GAUM Transaction 
       17.    Just as it had done with MDU, in 2001, management of Zurich Re 
negotiated a circular reinsurance transaction aimed at managing losses related to 
reinsurance coverage it provided to Global Aerospace Underwriting Managers Ltd. 
(“GAUM”), an aerospace underwriting pool. 
 
       18.    In July 2001, Zurich Re management estimated that losses under Zurich 
Re's reinsurance agreement with GAUM would negatively affect Zurich Re’s earnings 
for the year ended December 31, 2001.  In a July 12, 2001 memo to the CEO and other 
senior executives, the CUO suggested the “possibility to buy a GAAP cover” for the 
GAUM business.  In an August 31, 2001 email to the CEO and others, the CUO provided 
the following description of the reinsurance structure, reflecting that Zurich Re 
management intended it to be circular from early on: “Zurich Re retroceeds a 100% 
[quota share] of its Stop Loss Reinsurance covering GAUM’s net retention for the 
underwriting year 2001…to Interocean…Interocean enters into a Speed of Settlement 
(SOS) excess of loss reinsurance with Zurich Insurance Bermuda…” 
 
       19.    In 2001, Zurich Re entered into the following transactions:  On September 
25, 2001, ZIC entered into an excess of loss reinsurance agreement with GAUM covering 
GAUM’s losses for risks attaching during 2001 in excess of a certain attachment point. 
On December 5, 2001, ZIC ceded 100% of its risks under the GAUM excess of loss 
reinsurance agreement to Inter-Ocean, which in turn, ceded all of its liabilities to ZIB. 
 
          ZIC                      IO                      ZIB 
 
 
 
        GAUM 
 
 
                                           6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 
       20.    Similar to the MDU transaction, Zurich Re and later Converium 
improperly accounted for the GAUM contracts as reinsurance.  Specifically, because 
Zurich reassumed 100% of the risk from Inter-Ocean, it should not have accounted for 
the contracts as reinsurance.  Because Zurich Re, and later Converium, improperly 
accounted for the transaction as reinsurance, in Converium’s December 2001 Form F-1, 
Converium understated its pre-tax loss for the six-month period ended June 30, 2001 by 
$2.44 million.  
 

The Z-1 Facility and Undisclosed Side Agreement 

       21.    In addition to the circular Inter-Ocean transactions, Zurich Re 
management entered into a reinsurance agreement --  known as the Z-1 Facility -- that 
appeared to transfer risk, but in fact did not, due to a side agreement that left the risk with 
Zurich Re. 
 
       22.    In 1999, Zurich Re established the Z-1 Facility with a Barbados insurance 
company (Company B).  Under the Z-1 Facility, Company B and a Cologne-based 
affiliate of Company B (“Company B Cologne”) acted as reinsurers for six finite 
reinsurance transactions between external cedents and Zurich Re North America, in 
which Zurich Re North America had reinsured losses of unaffiliated insurers.  Zurich Re 
North America retroceded 100% of its obligations and premiums to Zurich Re Zurich, a 
division of ZIC.  Zurich Re Zurich then retroceded 100% of its obligations and premiums 
to Company B Cologne, which then ceded the business to Company B.  Company B, in 
turn, retroceded most but not all of the risk it had assumed from Company B Cologne to a 
separate Zurich subsidiary, Zurich Re Cologne, pursuant to a “speed of settlement” stop 
loss agreement (“SOS”).  A SOS is a type of aggregate stop loss agreement that limits the 
total losses incurred by the ceding company.  Under the SOS, Company B retained the 
risk of up to $60 million of losses (including $10 million of losses under Endorsement 1); 
Zurich Re Cologne was responsible for aggregate losses above that $60 million. 

   Zurich Re                Company             Company B                 Zurich Re,  
   Zurich                   B Cologne                                     Cologne  

   Zurich Re                 External 
   North America             Insurers
                                                                                               
       Cover B Negates Risk Transfer 
       23.    Although Company B ceded much of the risk it assumed under the Z-1 
Facility to Zurich Re Cologne, Company B did not want to have any exposure for losses 
under the Z-1 Facility.  Accordingly, Company B sought a commitment from Zurich Re 
management that Company B would not realize any losses under the Z-1 Facility.  The 

 
                                           7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

CEO assured the Company B executive responsible for the transaction that Company B 
would not realize any losses under the Z-1 Facility. 
 
       24.    The Company B executive insisted on security beyond the CEO’s oral 
commitment.  At the CEO's instruction, a Zurich Re North America employee prepared a 
separate reinsurance agreement between ZIC and Company B to serve as security for the 
CEO’s promise.  The agreement, which was unrelated to the Z-1 Facility on its face, was 
structured as a payback mechanism and was intended to reimburse Company B for any 
losses suffered under the Z-1 Facility.  In internal correspondence, Zurich Re 
management and later Converium referred to the agreement as “Cover B.”  Cover B 
provided ZIC catastrophic coverage for the years 2000 through 2002 in exchange for a 
total of $39 million in non-refundable premiums to Company B.  The attachment point 
for coverage under Cover B was set intentionally high -- at a level that neither party 
expected to be reached.  So, although Company B theoretically could have suffered 
losses under Cover B, the agreement was structured to allow Company B to receive a 
premium with very little risk.  The $39 million premium figure represented the present 
value of the maximum possible loss that Company B could suffer under the Z-1 Facility 
($60 million).  Moreover, Cover B was drafted to give Company B the option to trigger 
the parties’ obligations and, by doing so, offset losses, if any, sustained under the Z-1 
Facility.  In fact, Company B referred to Cover B as the “option contract.” 
 
       25.    In the fall of 1999, prior to finalizing the terms of Cover B, the Zurich Re 
North America employee who drafted the agreement told the CEO that he believed that 
Cover B negated risk transfer under the Z-1 Facility.  Notwithstanding this warning, the 
CEO approved Cover B, and on November 18, 1999, the CEO executed the agreement. 
 
       26.    In December 2000, Cover B was renewed, with the CEO again signing the 
agreement.  The terms of the 2000 Cover B agreement were substantially the same as the 
1999 Cover B agreement, although the premium amount was increased to $15 million per 
year, for a total of $45 million. 
        
       Unicover Losses Are Ceded to the Z-1 Facility 
       27.    In September 2000, Zurich Re management became concerned about the 
financial statement impact of Zurich Re’s exposure to losses arising out of Zurich Re’s 
involvement in the failed Unicover Occupational Accident Reinsurance Pool (“Unicover 
Pool”).  To address these concerns, Zurich Re management approached Company B 
about including Zurich’s Unicover Pool exposure under the Z-1 Facility.  Specifically, 
Zurich Re proposed ceding a potential exposure of $58.6 million under the Unicover 
Pool, as well as assorted other potential exposures, in exchange for a $15 million 
premium. 
 
       28.    During a December 20, 2000 dinner with the CEO in Zurich, the Company 
B executive who negotiated the Z-1 Facility and Cover B agreed to adjust the Z-1 Facility 
to permit Zurich Re to cede potential Unicover losses to the Z-1 Facility.  The Company 
B executive agreed to accept the cessions because he believed that Cover B protected 

 
                                           8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

Company B from risk of loss under the Z-1 Facility.  Cover B was renewed and signed on 
December 20, 2000. 
 
       29.    By the time Zurich had completed the Converium IPO, significant losses 
on the Unicover business had been recorded.  Converium ultimately ceded those losses to 
the Z-1 Facility.  
        

       Post-IPO Conduct of Converium 
       30.    Converium was prepared to honor Zurich Re’s prior commitment that 
Company B would not suffer any losses under the Z-1 Facility, and Converium did not 
want Company B to trigger Cover B.  To induce Company B not to trigger Cover B, 
Converium offered to enter into reinsurance agreements that would be structured in such 
a way as to ensure that Company B would realize sufficient profit to offset the Z-1 
Facility losses.  The Company B executive described the arrangement and reasoning in an 
internal memo following a January 2003 meeting with the CEO: “Converium does not 
want us to trigger the option cover (contract 5), since it would make it obvious that this 
transaction was a circular transaction.  Instead they have offered us [other profitable 
business]…Converium and especially [the CEO] have proved to us that Converium will 
hold [Company B’s parent] harmless under the [Z-1 Facility]. The option cover (contract 
5) [Cover B] was always considered to be a sleep-easy cover in case Converium does not 
fulfill it’s [sic] obligation they gave to [Company B] ….” 
 
       Converium Cedes Profitable Business to Company B as Payback for Z-1 
       Losses 
       31.    Consistent with these representations, Converium used three purportedly 
unrelated agreements with Company B in lieu of the option contract to offset losses ceded 
to the Z-1 Facility.  First, in 2003, Converium entered into a multiple year third event 
industry warranty catastrophe excess of loss reinsurance contract with Company B for the 
years 2003 through 2005.  Converium purchased coverage for this contract from 
Company B.  As a result, in exchange for providing coverage for a remote layer of risk, 
Converium paid Company B an $8 million premium each year. 
 
       32.    Second, in early 2000, before the IPO, Company B replaced another 
Bermuda-based reinsurer as the retrocessionaire for risks related to a pre-existing 
reinsurance agreement between Zurich and a third party reinsurer.  According to internal 
Converium and Company B documents, after the IPO, when losses under the Z-1 Facility 
emerged, Converium used $2.6 million in excess fees that would have been payable to 
the original retrocessionaire but that Company B received in its place to offset a portion 
of the losses suffered by Company B under the Z-1 Facility.   
 
       33.    Third, in 2004, in exchange for assuming the risk in connection with a 
policy for only the final month of a year-long agreement, Company B received the vast 
bulk of the premiums under the contract -- $9.85 million of the $10.2 million annual 
premium. 

 
                                           9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

 
       34.    In connection with the above reinsurance agreements, Converium paid a 
total of $35.73 million to Company B as a means of repaying the deficit that had arisen 
through losses ceded to Company B via the Z-1 Facility. 
        
       The Net Effect of the Z-1 Transactions 
       35.    The Z-1 transactions did not transfer insurance risk outside of entities 
included in Zurich’s, and later Converium’s, consolidated financial statements and should 
not have been accounted for as reinsurance.  As a result, in its December 2001 Form F-1, 
Converium understated its pre-tax loss for the year ended December 31, 2000 by $98.20 
million or 66.19%. 
        

The Converium IPO

       36.    On March 22, 2001, in connection with its announcement of disappointing 
financial results for 2000, Zurich reported that it intended to exit the assumed reinsurance 
business.  In a September 6, 2001 press release, Zurich announced that its reinsurance 
business would be spun off in an IPO, and that as of October 1, 2001, the business would 
operate under the name Converium. 
 
       37.    The Registration Statement and Prospectus filed by Converium in 
connection with the IPO, which became effective on December 11, 2001, was derived 
from data from the Zurich subsidiaries combined to form Converium and failed to 
disclose the impact of the circular Inter-Ocean and the Z-1 Facility transactions on 
Converium’s business operations, financial results and shareholders’ equity at the time of 
the IPO.  
 
       38.    Accordingly, the statements in the prospectus regarding Converium’s 
financial results for 2000 and the first half of 2001 were materially false and misleading.  
As a consequence of the circular Inter-Ocean transactions and the Z-1 Facility 
transactions, rather than reporting a loss before taxes of $48.8 million for 2000, 
Converium should have reported a loss of at least $148.4 million.  Converium also 
overstated its $1.09 billion in reported shareholders’ equity as of December 31, 2000 by 
at least $72.3 million (approximately 6.6% of the total reported shareholders’ equity), an 
amount including the effect of $100 million attributable to the Inter-Ocean and Z-1 
Facility transactions and partially offset by $27.7 million attributable to other reinsurance 
transactions not addressed within this Order. 
 
       39.    Finally, because Converium’s loss ratio for its non-life reinsurance 
business was directly affected by the improperly recorded reinsurance obtained through 
the circular Inter- Ocean and the Z-1 Facility transactions, Converium materially 
understated its reported loss ratios for its “Global Non-life” and “Converium Zurich” 
segments in 2000 and 2001.  Had Converium accounted for these transactions as 
deposits, Converium would have reported for its “Global Non-life” segment a 92.6% loss 
ratio (a 6% increase from the 86.6% it reported) and for its “Converium Zurich” segment 

 
                                           10  
---------------------Page 11---------------------

a 94% loss ratio (a 14.5% increase from the 79.5% it reported) in 2000.  In 2001, 
Converium should have reported for its “Global Non-life” segment a loss ratio above 
100% (up from the 99.7% reported to 100.2%), which indicates an underwriting loss. 
 
       40.    On December 11, 2001, Converium conducted its IPO pursuant to the 
Registration Statement and Prospectus.  The Converium IPO was the largest initial public 
offering of a reinsurance company in history.  Moreover, it was the largest initial public 
offering of a Swiss company in three years.  Zurich sold 35 million shares of Converium 
stock in the IPO at a price of 82 Swiss Francs per share, or $24.59 per ADS (with each 
ADS representing one half of one share of stock).  The IPO yielded gross proceeds of 
approximately $ 1.7 billion.  Zurich received net proceeds of approximately $1.6 billion 
from its sale of Converium securities through the IPO. 
 
       41.    In addition to the 35 million shares Zurich sold in the December 11, 2001 
IPO, Zurich granted the underwriters an over-allotment of 5 million shares of Converium 
stock, representing the remainder of Zurich’s interest in Converium.  On January 9, 2002, 
Zurich issued a press release in which it announced that the over-allotment had been 
exercised, and that it had sold its remaining 5 million shares of Converium.  In total, 
through the IPO, Zurich sold 40 million shares of Converium - every single share of 
Converium that it owned - and reaped proceeds of approximately $1.97 billion. 
 
       42.    As a result of the Inter-Ocean transactions (MDU and GAUM) and the Z-1 
Facility, Converium’s financial statements contained in Form F-1 filings for the IPO 
materially overstated shareholders’ equity as of October 1, 2001. 
 
       43.    Had Zurich and Converium properly accounted for the true nature of the 
Inter-Ocean and Z-1 Facility transactions, Zurich would have received materially less 
from its proceeds of the offering. 
        

                                       Violation 

       44.    As a result of the conduct described above, Converium violated Section 
10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct 
in connection with the purchase or sale of securities.   
 
       45.    As a result of the conduct described above, Zurich caused Converium’s 
violation of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which 
prohibit fraudulent conduct in connection with the purchase or sale of securities.  Among 
other things, Zurich entered into finite reinsurance transactions described above for the 
purpose of improperly inflating its financial performance and improperly using 
reinsurance accounting rules to account for the transactions, with the knowledge that such 
accounting was improper.   
        

        

 
                                           11 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

         Zurich’s Remedial Efforts  
 
         In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts 
promptly undertaken by Respondent and cooperation afforded the Commission staff.  
          

                                                      IV. 

              In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the 
relief agreed to in Respondent Zurich’s Offer.   
 
         Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
          
         Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent Zurich cease and desist 
from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 10(b) of 
the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder. 
          
          
.   
          

         By the Commission. 
          
          
              Florence E. Harmon 
              Acting Secretary 
 
  
 
       
 

 
                                                      12  
