---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                             Before the 

                        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 57756 / May 1, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2823 / May 1, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING                                                                                                      
FILE NO. 3-13033 

                                                     ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
In the Matter of                                     ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
                                                     PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
SAVVIDES & PARTNERS/PKF                              COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
CYPRUS                                               MAKING FINDINGS AND IMPOSING 
                                                     REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

Respondent. 

                                       I. 

       The Securities and Exchange Commission ( “Commission”) deems it appropriate and in 
the public interest that public administrative proceedings be instituted against Respondent 
Savvides & Partners/PKF Cyprus (“PKF Cyprus” or “Respondent”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.1 

                                             II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, prior to a hearing pursuant to the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.1 et seq., and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them, the subject matter of these 

1
  Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in pertinent part, that:  The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and 
without preliminary hearing, may, by order, … suspend from appearing or practicing before it any  … accountant … 
who has been by name … permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her 
misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any 
provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III subsection (2) below, which are admitted, 
Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings 
Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing 
Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.  

                                              III. 

   On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 

   1.	 PKF Cyprus is a Limassol, Cyprus accounting firm operating in the form of a partnership. 
       The firm’s primary address is Meliza Court, 229, Arch. Makarios III Avenue, Limassol, 
       Cyprus.  PKF Cyprus is a member of PKF International Ltd., a network of independent 
       firms of accountants and business advisors with more than 430 offices and 12,800 staff 
       and partners in more than 100 countries. 

   2.	 On March 21, 2006, the Commission filed a complaint against Respondent in SEC v. 
       Savvides & Partners/PKF Cyprus, et al. Civil Action No. 06 CV 2223 (S.D.N.Y.) 
       naming Savvides & Partners/PKF Cyprus, Pavlos Meletiou (“Meletiou”), R.K. Dhawan 
       and Co., and R.K. Dhawan as defendants.  On March 7, 2008, Respondent, without 
       admitting or denying the allegations in the complaint, consented to the entry of a final 
       judgment against it, permanently enjoining it from future violations of Section 17(a) of 
       the Securities Act of 1933 and  Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
       (“Exchange Act”) and Exchange Act Rule 10b-5 and from aiding and abetting future 
       violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, and 
       Exchange Act Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13b2-1.  On April 29, 2008, the Court entered the 
       aforementioned permanent injunction.  The final judgment also orders PKF Cyprus to 
       pay total disgorgement of $155,052 (including prejudgment interest of $48,539), and to 
       pay a $106,513 civil penalty. 

   3.	 The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that PKF Cyprus issued 
       unqualified audit reports for one AremisSoft Corporation (“AremisSoft”) subsidiary in 
       1999 and two AremisSoft subsidiaries in 2000 that falsely stated that its audits were 
       conducted in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (“GAAS”) 
       and that the AremisSoft subsidiaries’ financial statements were fairly presented in 
       accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”).  The 
       complaint further alleged that Meletiou was a partner of PKF Cyprus while AremisSoft 
       was a public company, that he was responsible for the audits and reviews conducted by 
       PKF Cyprus of the three AremisSoft subsidiaries, and that he had no training or 
       experience in GAAS or GAAP. 

   4.	 The complaint also alleged that PKF Cyprus failed to meet numerous GAAS 
       requirements in that Meletiou:  (a) did not obtain sufficient competent evidential matter 
       to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the financial statements under audit; 
       (b) did not exercise due professional care in the performance of the audits and the 
       preparation of the audit reports; (c) did not have adequate technical training and 
       proficiency with respect to GAAS and GAAP; (d) did not consider the risk of 
       misstatement arising from fraudulent financial reporting during the planning of the audits 

                                               2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

       and the performance of substantive audit procedures; and (e) did not obtain a sufficient 
       understanding of the internal controls of the two AremisSoft subsidiaries that PKF 
       audited in 2000 to plan the audit. 

   5.	 The complaint further alleged that Meletiou knew or was reckless in not knowing that the 
       statements in PKF Cyprus’ 2000 audit reports of two AremisSoft subsidiaries were 
       materially false and misleading.  The complaint also alleged that the false financial 
       statements of the two AremisSoft subsidiaries were included in AremisSoft’s 
       consolidated financial statements for 2000, AremisSoft’s 2000 Form 10-K, and in 
       AremisSoft’s registration statements that incorporated the financial information. 

   6.	 In addition, the complaint alleged that PKF Cyprus issued an unqualified audit report on 
       an AremisSoft subsidiary covering the period 1997 through 1999 that stated PKF Cyprus 
       had conducted its audit in accordance with GAAS and that the subsidiary’s financial 
       statements presented the subsidiary’s consolidated financial position fairly, in conformity 
       with GAAP.  The complaint also alleged that the PKF Cyprus audit report was included 
       in AremisSoft’s 1999 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Commission.  The 
       complaint further alleged that contrary to the representations in PKF Cyprus’ audit report, 
       the subsidiary’s financial statements did not conform to GAAP and the audit was not 
       conducted in accordance with GAAS in effect at the time of the audit.  The complaint 
       also alleged that, among other things, the PKF Cyprus audit report stated that the 
       subsidiary had more than three million dollars of revenues in 1999, when in fact the 
       company had virtually no assets, business, revenues, or income and, according to its own 
       corporate records, had not even begun business operations as of March 31, 2000. 

   7.	 The complaint also alleged that the PKF Cyprus audit workpapers prepared by Meletiou 
       during the 2000 audits of two AremisSoft subsidiaries, which were found in a trash heap 
       outside AremisSoft's Indian offices, included phony customer and bank confirmations. 

                                              IV. 

UNDERTAKINGS BY PKF CYPRUS 

       PKF Cyprus undertakes to: 

   1.	 maintain for a period of not less than seven years, all audit work papers and other 
       information with respect to any issuer2
                                              audit report filed with the Commission prior to the 
       date of this Order; 

   2.	 produce to the SEC within 10 days upon request all audit or review documentation 
       associated in any way with any issuer audit report filed with the Commission prior to the 
       date of this Order; and 

2
  As used in this order, the term “issuer”' has the same meaning as in Section 2(a)(7) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
2002. 

                                               3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

   3.	 obtain an independent partner review on any future engagements associated in any way 
       with any issuer audit report. 

In determining whether to accept PKF Cyprus’ Offer, the Commission has considered these 
undertakings. 

                                               V. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest 
to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 

Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

A.     PKF Cyprus is censured pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.   

B.     PKF Cyprus is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 

C.     After five years from the date of this order, Respondent PKF Cyprus may request that the 
Commission consider its reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as an independent 
accountant. Such an application must satisfy the Commission that: 

       1.     Respondent PKF Cyprus is registered with the Public Company Accounting 
Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such 
registration continues to be effective.  However, if registration with the Board is dependant upon 
reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other 
merits; 

       2.     Respondent PKF Cyprus has hired an independent CPA consultant (“consultant”), 
who is not unacceptable to the staff of the Commission and is affiliated with a public accounting 
firm registered with the Board, that has conducted a review of PKF Cyprus’s quality control 
system and submitted to the staff of the Commission a report that describes the review conducted 
and procedures performed, and represents that the review did not identify any criticisms of or 
potential defects in the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that any of PKF Cyprus’ 
employees will not receive appropriate supervision.  PKF Cyprus agrees to require the 
consultant, if and when retained, to enter into an agreement that provides that for the period of 
review and for a period of two years from completion of the review, the consultant shall not enter 
into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with 
PKF Cyprus, or any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents 
acting in their capacity. The agreement will also provide that the consultant will require that any 
firm with which he/she is affiliated or of which he/she is a member, and any person engaged to 
assist the consultant in performance of his/her duties under this Order shall not, without prior 
written consent of the staff, enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or 
other professional relationship with PKF Cyprus, or any of its present or former affiliates, 

                                               4

---------------------Page 5---------------------

directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such for the period of the 
review and for a period of two years after the review. 

       3.     Respondent PKF Cyprus has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 

       4.     Respondent PKF Cyprus acknowledges its responsibility, as long as Respondent 
PKF Cyprus appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 

D.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent PKF Cyprus to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that its licenses with the Institute of 
Certified Public Accountants of Cyprus (“ICPAC”) or the successor regulatory organization are 
current and it has resolved any disciplinary issues with ICPAC.  The Commission’s review may 
include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating 
to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice 
before the Commission. 

       By the Commission.  

                                                   Nancy M. Morris 
                                                   Secretary 

                                               5

