---------------------Page 1---------------------

                       UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                  Before the

                SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT of 1934 
Release No. 56557 / September 27, 2007 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2730 / September 27, 2007 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12845 

                                : 
In the Matter of 
                                : 
                                    ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
                                : 
TIDEWATER INC., and                 DESIST PROCEEDINGS, MAKING 
                                : 
JAMES KEITH LOUSTEAU,               FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE-
                                : 
CPA                                 AND-DESIST ORDER PURSUANT TO 
                                : 
                                    SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                : 
Respondents.                        EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
                                : 
                                : 

                                       I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate 
that cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Tidewater Inc. and 
James Keith Lousteau (“Lousteau”) (collectively “Respondents”). 

                                      II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have 
submitted Offers of Settlement (“Offers”), which the Commission has determined to 
accept.  Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought 
by or on behalf of the Commission or to which the Commission is a party, and without 
admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over 
them and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents 
consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Making 
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                           III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds that: 

                                   RESPONDENTS 

       1.      Tidewater Inc. operates offshore service vessels designed and outfitted to 
support the energy industry.  Tidewater is a Delaware corporation with its headquarters in 
New Orleans, Louisiana.   Tidewater’s secu rities are reg istered with the Commission 
under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and its shares are listed on the N ew York Stock 
Exchange.  Tidewater’s fiscal year ends on March 31. 

       2.      James Keith Lousteau, age 59, has been Tidewater’s Executive Vice 
President and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) since September 2000 and has been with 
Tidewater in various positions since 1977.   

                                         FACTS

        Background 

       3.      Tidewater operates a worldwide fleet of vessels that provide services 
supporting all phases of offshore exploration, development, and production.  For internal 
operational purposes, at all times relevant, Tidewater classified the status of its vessels as 
either active or withdrawn.  Active vessels include vessels that are “working,” “warm-
stacked,” or “cold-stacked.”  A working vessel is one that is being used actively in 
service.  A warm-stacked vessel is a readily available vessel, although not in use, with 
crews assigned and current certifications that comply with Coast Guard requirements.   

       4.      In contrast, a “cold-stacked” vessel is a vessel that has been removed from 
service with its crew released.  Coast guard certifications necessary to operate cold-
stacked vessels have frequently expired, and significant expenditures are necessary to 
refurbish these vessels in order to return them to certified status.   

       5.      A “withdrawn” vessel is one that is retired from the fleet and therefore is 
intended only to be sold or scrapped.  Tidewater withdrew from its fleet older, 
infrequently used vessels that were not marketable due to obsolescence or were 
economically prohibitive to operate due to excessive repair costs, and before 2002, placed 
such vessels on a list it referred to as the “Vessels For Sale List.”  Historically, once 
Tidewater placed these withdrawn vessels on the for-sale list, Tidewater would either sell 
the vessels or periodically scrap them.  Vessels placed on this for-sale list rarely return to 
working status. 

       6.      Tidewater’s accounting department and its external auditors review 
withdrawn vessels for impairment purposes at least quarterly to ensure that the carrying 
value of these assets does not exceed their fair value.  Moreover, Tidewater’s quarterly 

                                            2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

reports on Form 10-Q and annual reports on Form 10-K disclose the number of vessels 
the company has withdrawn from service. 

              Tidewater’s Corporate Directive Prohibiting the  
              Withdrawal of Cold-Stacked Vessels 

       7.     In or about April 2002, which coincided with the beginning of Tidewater’s 
fiscal year-ended March 31, 2003, Tidewater’s newly-appointed Chief Executive Officer 
(“CEO”) reaffirmed a corporate directive of his predecessor that explicitly prohibited the 
addition of any vessels to Tidewater’s withdrawn fleet.  Prior to this directive, from fiscal 
year 2000 through the first half of fiscal year 2002, Tidewater undertook a regular 
analysis of all cold-stacked vessels and withdrawn vessels.  This analysis included 
identifying which cold-stacked vessels would not return to service, even in an improved 
market.  As a result, during that time Tidewater withdrew from service 77 vessels.   

       8.     Even though Tidewater’s CEO’s directive suspended all vessel 
retirements, many towing-supply vessels were becoming obsolete in terms of their age 
and outdated specifications.  Between April 2002 and March 2004, certain of Tidewater’s 
senior operations personnel on several occasions informed senior management, including 
Lousteau, that in their view a significant number of cold-stacked vessels were unlikely to, 
or would not, return to service.  For example, in April 2002, Tidewater’s Senior Vice 
President of Operations identified 25 cold-stacked vessels that the operations division 
deemed “will not return to work.” 

       9.     The senior operations personnel usually sought approval to have these 
vessels withdrawn from service and subsequently either sold or scrapped.  This typically 
occurred when the costs to return the vessels to service made them economically 
prohibitive to operate and there was little or no chance that many of these vessels would 
ever return to service.  In those situations, the vessels involved were usually older than 
Tidewater’s active vessels and required high repair and recertification costs.  For 
example, Tidewater estimated in July 2002 that the total repair and recertification cost to 
return to service 45 of its cold-stacked domestic towing-supply vessels was about $24 
million.   

       10.    At other times, the operations personnel recommended withdrawal of 
vessels that were unmarketable because they were obsolete and had been cold-stacked for 
several years.  For instance, in April 2003, a Tidewater engineer requested approval from 
senior management, including Lousteau, to offer for sale 18 vessels that had been cold-
stacked since at least 1999.  In June 2003, that same engineer sent Tidewater’s senior 
management an updated list that included 21 cold-stacked vessels and recommended that 
Tidewater attempt to sell these vessels.  In recommending that these vessels be sold, the 
engineer stated that he believed these vessels had “almost no chance of ever coming out 
for service again.” 

       11.    Certain of Tidewater’s senior operations personnel communicated similar 
recommendations to senior management on many occasions throughout the relevant 

                                            3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

period.  In addition, at the same time as Tidewater was accumulating these obsolete 
vessels, it initiated a fleet replacement program that involved the acquisition of newer or 
refurbished vessels from competitors as well as the construction of new and 
technologically modernized vessels, thereby decreasing even further the likelihood that 
its idle vessels would ever be used again.    

              Tidewater Accumulated Numerous Cold-Stacked Vessels  
              That Were Unlikely to Return to Service 

       12.    Because of the corporate directive prohibiting the withdrawal of vessels, 
Tidewater began marketing for sale unofficially certain of the vessels that the operations 
personnel recommended be withdrawn.  Functionally, these vessels that were marketed 
for sale unofficially were no different from other vessels that Tidewater had historically 
withdrawn from service and put on the for-sale list prior to the corporate directive closing 
that list.  In other words, all had been identified as unlikely to return to service at 
Tidewater and were marketed for sale or scrapping.   

       13.    Although functionally the same as vessels that had been withdrawn, these 
vessels for sale unofficially did not receive the same level of review by Tidewater’s 
accounting department, and these vessels did not individually proceed through the formal 
quarterly review for potential impairment that Tidewater’s accounting department and 
external auditors normally performed on each vessel in the withdrawn fleet.  Moreover, 
they were not included in Tidewater’s disclosures related to its withdrawn fleet. 

       14.    Ultimately, because Tidewater did not withdraw any vessels from its cold-
stacked fleet during the period from September 2001 through March 2004, by the end of 
its 2004 fiscal year Tidewater had accumulated a fleet of 137 cold-stacked vessels 
(representing almost 25% of its worldwide fleet of 575 vessels at March 2004), of which 
at least 70 vessels should have been classified as withdrawn.  Of these more than 70 
vessels, 67 vessels had not been used for over two years, and 21 vessels had been out of 
service for more than five years.  Following eight consecutive quarters of domestic 
operating losses during fiscal years 2003 and 2004, the number of cold-stacked vessels 
escalated to almost 70% of the domestic towing-supply vessels operating in the U.S. 
Gulf, as disclosed in Tidewater’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year-ended March 31, 2004. 

       15.    Tidewater did not review these vessels individually for possible 
impairment until March 2004, and at that time the company recognized an impairment 
charge of $26.5 million ($17.2 million after-tax, or $.30 per share) related to 83 vessels, 
the majority of which had been cold-stacked for at least two years and were unlikely to 
return to service.  The details of the write-off were disclosed in Tidewater’s Form 10-K 
for the fiscal year-ended March 31, 2004, wherein the Company stated that it was 
unlikely that these vessels would ever return to service due to “average age, their 
outdated specifications relative to competing equipment and significant costs to repair 
and return these vessels to service.”  The $26.5 million impairment charge reduced 
Tidewater’s net income for fiscal year 2004 by almost 30%.   

                                            4

---------------------Page 5---------------------

              Tidewater Failed to Perform the Proper  

              Impairment Analysis on Its Vessels 


       16.     Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) requires companies 
such as Tidewater to assess its accounting and reporting for long-lived assets such as its 
cold-stacked vessels.  Specifically, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 
144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets” (“SFAS 144”), 
states that a long-lived asset (or asset group) shall be tested for recoverability whenever 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may not be 
recoverable.  SFAS 144 lists examples of such events or changes in circumstances, one of 
which is a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset 
(or asset group) is being used or in its physical condition.   

       17.    When Tidewater’s operations personnel identified certain cold-stacked 
vessels that, in their view, would not return to service, and thus were functionally 
withdrawn, this constituted a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which 
these long-lived assets were being used.  Due to their physical condition or costs to 
reactivate and recertify them, these vessels should have been separately reviewed for 
impairment in order to ascertain whether their book values were recoverable.  Therefore, 
Tidewater, through Lousteau, should have had the cold-stacked vessels reviewed 
individually for impairment throughout the time period that the vessels were in idle 
status. 

       18.    In addition, because Tidewater did not withdraw these vessels from 
service and place them on a list of withdrawn vessels, the vessels were not individually 
subject to the formal review for potential impairment that Tidewater’s external auditors 
normally performed on withdrawn vessels, which would have likely led to questions 
concerning the carrying value of those vessels. 

              Tidewater Failed to Review Its Depreciation Estimates 

       19.    As part of its impairment review, Tidewater should have also reviewed its 
depreciation estimates to evaluate whether they needed to be revised given the high 
uncertainty surrounding the remaining service life of these vessels.  Specifically, pursuant 
to GAAP, estimates of remaining service lives and salvage values of depreciable assets 
should be reviewed and revised to recognize changes in conditions.  In addition, SFAS 
144 states that when a long-lived asset (or asset group) is tested for recoverability, it also 
may be necessary to review depreciation estimates and methods as required by certain 
provisions of GAAP.  Thus, issuers must continually evaluate the appropriateness of the 
useful life and salvage value estimates assigned to long-lived assets as facts and 
circumstances change.  This type of evaluation may result in depreciation of the 
remaining book value over a shorter period of time.   

       20.    Between September 2001 and March 2004, Tidewater failed to review 
adequately depreciation for the cold-stacked vessels that were unlikely to return to 
service.  These unused vessels instead continued to be depreciated for several years 

                                            5

---------------------Page 6---------------------

according to their historical depreciation schedule.  However, because they would not 
return to service, Tidewater, through Lousteau, should have reviewed the depreciation on 
these vessels to evaluate whether its estimates needed to be revised.  

              Tidewater Filed Inaccurate Periodic Reports 
              With the Commission 

       21.    The vessels that should have been treated as withdrawn and marketed for 
sale from Tidewater’s active fleet were not included in Tidewater’s Form 10-K for the 
fiscal year-ended March 31, 2003 as vessels withdrawn from service.  In fact, 
Tidewater’s Form-10-K for fiscal year 2003 inaccurately stated that the Company “did 
not withdraw any vessel from active service during fiscal 2003.”  As mentioned 
previously, the vessels that had been identified as unlikely to return to service by certain 
operations personnel and were marketed for sale or scrapping were no different than the 
historically withdrawn vessels that were on the for sale list.  Lousteau signed Tidewater’s 
annual and quarterly filings with the Commission and certified the disclosures contained 
in those filings.  Lousteau should have known that the disclosure contained in the filing 
was materially inaccurate given the fact that Tidewater was marketing for sale cold-
stacked vessels that were unlikely to return to service.   

       22.    Further, the fact that Tidewater had dozens of vessels that it knew required 
significant repair and recertification expenditures, were unlikely to return to service, may 
have been impaired, and could have required a revision of depreciation estimates, 
constituted known trends or uncertainties of the type that should have been disclosed in 
the Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) section of the Company’s 
periodic filings with the Commission because it was reasonably likely to, and ultimately 
did, have a material impact on Tidewater’s income from continuing operations.  
However, Tidewater’s Form 10-K for fiscal year 2003 and quarterly filings on Forms 10-
Q for the quarters ended June 30, 2002, September 30, 2002, December 31, 2002, June 
30, 2003, September 30, 2003, and December 31, 2003 did not contain any disclosures 
about these known uncertainties. Lousteau should have known that this information 
should have been disclosed in the MD&A section of the Company’s periodic filings.    

              Tidewater Had Inadequate Internal Controls 

       23.    Between September 2001 and March 2004, Tidewater’s internal control 
environment was characterized by insufficient documentation and formal processes, 
policies, and procedures for dealing with impairment issues for its worldwide fleet or 
accounting for cold-stacked vessels.  Tidewater did not have an appropriate process in 
place at the time to ensure that the vessels that were for-sale unofficially received the 
same level of accounting scrutiny as officially withdrawn vessels.  Because of 
Tidewater’s inadequate internal controls, the vessels that were for-sale unofficially were 
not reviewed periodically for impairment and depreciation purposes, and their effectively 
withdrawn status was not disclosed to the public.   

                                            6

---------------------Page 7---------------------

       24.    Lousteau signed certifications for Tidewater’s Form 10-K for fiscal year 
2003 and quarterly filings on Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended September 30, 2002, 
December 31, 2002, June 30, 2003, September 30, 2003, and December 31, 2003.  
Lousteau should have known that Tidewater’s controls were inadequate as to the 
impairment review and disclosures related to vessels unlikely to return to operations. 

       25.    In January 2005, Tidewater adopted new impairment testing policies in an 
effort to timely and more thoroughly review its vessel fleet for impairment. 

                                    VIOLATIONS 

       26.    Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act requires issuers of registered securities, 
like Tidewater, to file periodic reports with the Commission containing information 
prescribed by specific Commission rules.  Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 require, respectively, 
the filing of annual and quarterly reports.  Implicit in these provisions is the requirement 
that the reports accurately reflect the issuer’s financial condition and operating results.  
Rule 12b-20 requires, in addition to information required in periodic reports by 
Commission rules, such further material information as may be necessary to make the 
required statements not misleading.   

       27.    Additionally, Regulation S-K Item 303 requires registrants to disclose in 
the MD&A sections of required periodic filings “any known trends or uncertainties that 
have had or that the registrant reasonably expects will have a material…unfavorable 
impact on net sales or revenues or income from continuing operations.”  The failure to 
comply with Regulation S-K constitutes a violation under Section 13(a) of the Exchange 
Act. 

       28.    Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to devise and 
maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable 
assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of 
financial statements in conformity with GAAP and to maintain accountability for assets.   

       29.    Rule 13a-14 of the Exchange Act requires an issuer’s CFO to certify the 
information contained in the issuer’s quarterly and annual reports.   

       30.    As a result of the above, Tidewater violated Sections 13(a) and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder.   

       31.    As a result of the above, Lousteau caused Tidewater’s violations of 
Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 
thereunder, and violated Rule 13a-14. 

                                            7

---------------------Page 8---------------------

                               REMEDIAL EFFORTS 

       32.    In determining to accept the Offers, the Commission considered the 
remedial efforts that Tidewater initiated prior to and during the Commission staff’s 
investigation. 

                                          IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the 
sanctions agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 

    Accordingly, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, it is hereby ORDERED 
that: 

    A.        Tidewater cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
any future violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 
12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder. 

    B.        Lousteau cease and desist from causing any violations and any future 
violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-20, 13a-
1,  and 13a-13 thereunder, and from committing or causing any violations and any future 
violations of Exchange Act Rule 13a-14. 

    By the Commission. 

                                    Nancy M. Morris 
                                    Secretary 

                                           8

