---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                              STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                       the 

                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  57209 / January 28, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2774 / January 28, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12937 

                                                     ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                     ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
                                                     PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
In the Matter of                                     COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                     PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, 
      MICHAEL ODOM, CPA,                             AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL 
                                                     SANCTIONS 
Respondent. 

                                           I.


      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Michael Odom, CPA (“Odom” or 
“Respondent”), pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.1 

                                           II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Odom has submitted an Offer of 
Settlement (“Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of 
these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are 
admitted, Odom consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings 

1 
      Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides that: 

      The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before 
it in any way to any person who is found by the Commission  . . . to have engaged in . . . improper professional 
conduct. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing 
Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   

                                               III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds 2
                                                                                 that: 

A.     SUMMARY 

       Enron Corp.’s (“Enron”) senior executives engaged a wide-ranging scheme to defraud the 
investing public by materially overstating the company’s earnings and cash flows, and concealing 
debt in periodic reports filed with the Commission.3
                                                     The fraudulent scheme was carried out 
through a variety of complex structured transactions, related party transactions, misleading 
disclosures, and a widespread abuse of generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).  

       Arthur Andersen LLP (“Andersen”) served as Enron’s auditor, and for each year during the 
relevant time period, issued an auditor’s report falsely stating that Enron’s financial statements 
were presented fairly, in all material respects, in conformity with GAAP, and that Andersen had 
conducted its audit of those financial statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards (“GAAS”).  Odom served as Practice Director in connection with the Enron engagement.  
As specified in this Order, Odom engaged in improper professional conduct by concurring with the 
audit engagement team’s faulty conclusions regarding Enron’s accounting for certain transactions 
and authorizing the issuance by Andersen of unqualified audit reports that were materially false 
and misleading. 

B.     RESPONDENT 

       Michael C. Odom, 65, served as Practice Director at Andersen for the Gulf Coast 
Region during the relevant time period.  According to Andersen’s Audit Objectives and 
Procedures Manual, Practice Directors had authority to oversee the resolution of client issues and 
the extent of their involvement was driven by the engagement team’s risk assessments.  
Consultation was normally required whenever significant, unusual, or judgment issues were 
encountered during any audit.  Odom is currently and was a CPA licensed in the state of 
Louisiana at all relevant times. 

C.     OTHER PARTIES 

       Enron Corp. was an Oregon corporation with its principal place of business in Houston, 
Texas.  During the relevant time period, Enron’s common stock was registered with the 

2 
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
3 
       In connection with this fraudulent scheme, several former Enron executives either pleaded guilty or were 
convicted of felonies, including Enron’s former Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief 
Accounting Officer. 
                                                2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and traded on the New York Stock 
Exchange.  Among other operations, Enron was the nation’s largest natural gas and electric 
marketer, with reported annual revenue of more than $100 billion.  In 2000, Enron rose to number 
seven on the Fortune 500 list of public companies.  By December 2, 2001, when it filed for 
bankruptcy, Enron’s stock price had dropped over the course of a year from more than $80 per 
share to less than $1. 

       Arthur Andersen LLP once was one of the so-called “Big Five” accounting firms in the 
United States and had its headquarters in Chicago, Illinois.  Andersen personnel performed work 
for Enron during the relevant time period in several cities, including Chicago, Houston and 
London. 4 

D.     FACTS 

       1.      Andersen Identified Enron as a Maximum Risk Client 

       Odom was aware that the risk of fraudulent financial reporting at Enron was high.  In 
accordance with applicable professional standards, Andersen assessed the risk of fraud at Enron 
(AU §316, Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit), and Odom should have known 
that Enron possessed many of the risk factors that should be considered in making that assessment.  
For example, Fraud Risk Assessment questionnaires prepared by the audit engagement team 
documented that Enron placed an “undue emphasis on meeting earnings targets;” used “highly 
aggressive accounting;” utilized “unusual” year-end transactions that posed difficult “substance 
over form” questions; possessed a “philosophy of significantly managing (maximizing or 
minimizing) earnings;” and had a “high dependence on debt, difficulty in meeting debt payments 
or vulnerability to interest rate changes.”  In addition, an internal Andersen document prepared 
each year by the engagement team consistently classified the Enron engagement as involving 
“maximum risk” and noted that Enron’s use of complex “form over substance” and “related party” 
transactions created an “extreme” or “very significant” financial reporting risk.  This document, 
called a “SMART,” was prepared each year to assist with the annual decision whether to retain 
Enron as an audit client.  Odom reviewed the SMART documents and also attended an annual 
client retention meeting for the 2000 audit during which the risks identified above were discussed. 

       2.      Enron’s Prepay Transactions 

       Enron improperly reported structured financing proceeds as operating cash flows by means 
of “prepay” transactions with various financial institutions.  Enron used prepay transactions to 
improperly report the cash it received from prepay transactions as cash flow from operating 
activities, rather than cash flow from financing activities. This allowed Enron to hide the true 
4 
       David B. Duncan served as the global engagement partner for Andersen’s audits of Enron from 1997 until 
December 2001.  Contemporaneously with the filing of this Order, the Commission filed a settled civil injunctive 
action in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas, Houston Division, against Duncan, in which 
Duncan consented to be permanently enjoined from violating Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.  Upon entry of the injunction by the Court, Duncan has also offered to settle an 
administrative proceeding by the Commission in which he agrees to be permanently barred from appearing or 
practicing before the Commission as an accountant. 
                                                3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

extent of its borrowing from investors and the national credit rating agencies because sums 
borrowed in prepay transactions appeared as “price risk management liabilities” rather than 
additional debt on Enron’s balance sheet. 

       Enron’s prepay transactions were in substance financings because Enron used a three party 
structure involving a bank and a bank sponsored SPE that were not independent of each other to 
remove all commodity price risk from the transaction.  The circular nature of delivery and 
payments with respect to the commodities and the lack of independence between the bank 
counterparties had the effect of eliminating any material risk or any potential gain with respect to 
changes in the price of the underlying commodity.  In effect, Enron’s prepay transactions involved 
an investment bank making a large payment to Enron in exchange for Enron’s promise to pay the 
bank sponsored entity an amount in excess of what Enron received in the initial prepayment. 

       Amounts borrowed by Enron using the prepay structure were finely tuned each quarter for 
maximum reporting benefit.  Enron simply determined the amount of operating cash flows it 
wanted to report, projected any “shortfall” as the end of a reporting period approached, and then 
used prepay transactions to fill the gap.  From 1997 through September 30, 2001, Enron, using 
prepay transactions, received over $5 billion in funds in this manner.  

       Enron never separately disclosed in its public filings that it was entering into prepay 
transactions. Such disclosure was necessary because of the large dollar amounts and volume of 
prepay transactions entered into by Enron and the significant future obligated cash commitments 
associated with the transactions.  Rather, the prepay transactions were aggregated into Enron’s 
“price risk management liabilities.”  Enron provided a generic and inadequate description of its 
price risk management activities in the notes to the financial statements and in the management’s 
discussion and analysis section of its annual reports on Form 10-K and its quarterly reports on 
Form 10-Q.       

       GAAS provides that “the presentation of financial statements in conformity with [GAAP] 
includes adequate disclosure of material matters.  These matters relate to the form, arrangement, 
and content of the financial statements and their appended notes . . .”  (AU §431, Adequacy of 
Disclosure in Financial Statements).  GAAS also states that “[GAAP] recognize[s] the importance 
of reporting transactions and events in accordance with their substance” and that the “auditor 
should consider whether the substance of the transactions or events differs materially from their 
form.”  (AU §411, The Meaning of Present Fairly in Conformity With Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles in the Independent Auditor’s Report).  Enron’s financial statement 
presentation and disclosure of the prepay transactions was not in conformity with GAAP because it 
mischaracterized the nature of the cash flows associated with the transactions, obscured the true 
economic substance of these financing transactions, and did not address the material impact they 
had on Enron’s financial statements. 

       Enron’s disclosures regarding prepay transactions were materially inadequate.  In 
conjunction with both the 1999 and 2000 audits, the engagement team had advised Enron of the 
need for more robust disclosure of the prepay transactions.  David Duncan, the engagement partner 
for the audits, even proposed to Enron’s senior management specific language used by another 

                                               4

---------------------Page 5---------------------

Andersen audit client that would have disclosed the fact that Enron used “prepaid commodity 
contracts” and also the dollar amount of liabilities associated with the prepay transactions.  
Andersen’s recommendations to enhance the disclosure for prepay transactions were rejected by 
Enron’s management.  Odom consulted with Duncan and others regarding Enron’s prepay 
transaction disclosures and they determined, improperly, that Enron’s disclosures complied with 
GAAP without the proposed enhancements.   

       3. Enr      on’s Raptor Transactions 

       Beginning in the spring of 2000, Enron and LJM2, a partnership formed and managed by 
Enron’s then-Chief Financial Officer Andrew Fastow, engaged in a series of complex financial 
transactions with four SPE structures called Raptor I, Raptor II, Raptor III and Raptor IV 
(collectively “Raptors”).  Enron’s senior management used the Raptors, in part, to manipulate 
Enron’s financial statements.   

       By 1999, a large percentage of Enron’s quarterly earnings were attributed to unrealized 
gains in its merchant energy portfolio and in various technology investments.  Many of these assets 
were extremely volatile. The Raptors were used by Enron to “hedge” the value of those 
investments with a purported independent third party SPE, so that Enron could offset declines in 
the value of these assets with the Raptor hedges.  Enron capitalized Raptors I, II and IV with Enron 
stock.  Raptor III was capitalized with warrants of an Enron spin-off company.   Enron received an 
economic interest in the Raptors and $1.2 billion in notes receivable from the Raptors in return for 
the Enron shares and warrants.  Because of the related party nature and complexity of the 
transaction, the engagement team reviewed the features of the Raptors structures with Odom and 
the concurring review partner before Enron entered into the transactions and consulted with them 
both on various Raptors related issues throughout 2000 and 2001. 

       LJM2 contributed $30 million of equity to each Raptor.  However, through undisclosed 
side agreements between Fastow and others, the structures were designed so that amounts equal to 
LJM2’s equity was returned to LJM2 for each Raptor prior to any hedges being put in place.  As a 
result of the side agreements and related effective return of capital, LJM2 had no equity at risk and 
Enron should have consolidated the Raptors into its financial statements.  LJM2's equity was 
effectively returned to it through three separate $41 million put options in Enron stock in Raptors I, 
II and IV, and through a distribution in Raptor III.  These put options provided a return equal to 
LJM2's initial $30 million capital contribution in each Raptor, along with an agreed upon rate of 
return on such capital, before the Raptor SPEs entered into the hedging transactions.  Effectively, 
Enron was entering into hedging contracts with entities backed solely with its own stock.  

       Since the Enron engagement was classified as maximum risk, and related party transactions 
created an “extreme” or “very significant” financial reporting risk, the existence of the put options 
in the Raptor structures should have triggered increased professional skepticism.  The puts were 
priced at a premium that matched exactly LJM2's targeted return, and were included as part of 
aggressive and complex related party transactions that had a material effect on Enron’s reported 
earnings. Additionally, LJM2 received its $41 million payout in each Raptor shortly after signing 
the contracts - resulting in a short-term return on investment in excess of 130% in each case.  

                                               5

---------------------Page 6---------------------

Moreover, the payout occurred in each Raptor after Enron settled the put option early and before 
any hedges were put in place. The timing of settlement by Enron of these out-of-the-money put 
options should have been an additional red flag that prompted Odom and others to increase their 
professional skepticism and question why Enron would repeatedly make such economically 
irrational payments.  These payments actually eliminated the supposed protection from a drop in its 
stock price that the company purportedly had purchased at a premium.   Despite the need for 
greater scrutiny, Odom did not exercise due professional care or professional skepticism with 
regard to this aspect of the Raptor transactions (AU §230, Due Professional Care in the 
Performance of Work).  In addition, Odom and members of the engagement team allowed Enron to 
avoid recording significant Raptor-related impairment charges at year-end 2000 and for the first 
quarter of 2001 by improperly allowing Enron to offset losses in Raptors I and III against the 
excess credit capacity in Raptors II and IV.    

       4.     Violations 

       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides, in part, that the 
Commission may censure or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before the Commission in any way to any person who is found by the Commission to 
have engaged in improper professional conduct.  Rule 102(e)(1)(iv) defines improper professional 
conduct with respect to persons licensed to practice as accountants. 

       As applicable here, improper professional conduct means a violation of applicable 
standards that resulted from “repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a 
violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice before 
the Commission.”  (Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2)).  As a result of the conduct described above, Odom 
repeatedly acted unreasonably by concurring with the Enron audit engagement team’s faulty 
conclusions regarding Enron’s accounting for certain transactions and allowing the issuance by 
Andersen of unqualified audit reports that were materially false and misleading.  

       5.     Findings 

       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Odom engaged in improper 
professional conduct pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     Odom is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant. 

                                               6

---------------------Page 7---------------------

       B.     After two years from the date of this order, Odom may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 

              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 

                      (a)    Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision;

               (c)           Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      (d)    Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 

       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 

                                               7

---------------------Page 8---------------------

Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

 By        the Commission. 

       N                                              ancy M. Morris
       S                                              ecretary 

                                                8

