---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                     the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 57944 / June 10, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2837 / June 10, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13062 

                                       : 
                                       : 
                                       : 
In the Matter of                       :      ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                       :      PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
SALVATORE LAGRECA, CPA,                :      102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                       :      PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
             Respondent.               :      IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                       : 
                                       : 
____________________________________ : 

                                          I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
Salvatore LaGreca (“Respondent” or “LaGreca”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice.1 

1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 

      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.4. below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   

                                             III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 

              1.     Salvatore LaGreca, age 55, a resident of Port Washington, New York, 
served as McCann-Erickson Worldwide’s (“McCann”) Vice-Chairman, Finance and Operations 
and Chief Financial Officer from January 1996 to October 2002.  LaGreca is a Certified Public 
Accountant licensed in the State of New York, although his license is currently inactive.  LaGreca 
oversaw McCann’s accounting, financial reporting, strategic planning, mergers and acquisitions, 
and budgeting. 

              2.     Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. (“IPG”) is an advertising and media 
holding company that owns over 600 advertising agencies and other companies in approximately 
130 countries.  IPG is headquartered in New York, New York, and its stock is listed on the New 
York Stock Exchange. 

              3.      McCann is a Delaware corporation that IPG wholly owns.  (IPG owns 
100% of McCann’s voting securities.)  McCann maintains its headquarters in New York.  
McCann’s revenues during the relevant period constituted approximately one-third to over one-half 
of IPG’s revenues.  McCann is organized into regional divisions: North America, EMEA, Asia 
Pacific and Latin America.  In terms of number of operating agencies, which were generally all 
separately incorporated companies, EMEA was McCann’s largest region with 193 operating 
agencies in 40 countries.   

              4.     On May 6, 2008, a final judgment was entered by consent against LaGreca, 
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 
10b-5 thereunder, and from aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder, in the 
civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Salvatore LaGreca et. al, Civil Action 
Number 08-CV-4076 (GBD), in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New 
York.  LaGreca was also ordered to pay $36,000 in disgorgement of ill-gotten gains, $10,947 in 
prejudgment interest, and a $25,000 civil money penalty. 

                                               2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

              5.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, in the Fall of 
2002, IPG restated its financial results in the amount of $181 million for the period 1997 to 2002.  
The largest component of this restatement, approximately $101 million, was due to the failure of 
McCann and its officers and employees, including LaGreca, to eliminate properly imbalances in 
McCann’s intercompany accounts.  LaGreca oversaw the financial reporting and consolidation 
process at McCann, and he knew IPG consolidated McCann’s financial results into its own 
financial results. For six years, LaGreca failed to ensure McCann’s financial staff fully reconciled 
intercompany accounts, and then eliminated intercompany charges.  McCann financial 
management failed to take these actions at least in part so that McCann would hit internal annual 
profit projections.  Among other things, LaGreca ignored the red flags that McCann’s misstated 
intercompany accounts would have a material impact on IPG’s financial results.   

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent LaGreca’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     LaGreca is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   

       B.      After five (5) years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that 
the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of 
the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 

              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 

                      (a)    Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                                               3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

               (c)           Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      (d)    Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 

       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

 By       the Commission. 

       F                                             lorence E. Harmon
       A                                              cting Secretary 

                                               4

