---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED                               STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                        the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  59317 / January 29, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2928 / January 29, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13355 
 

In the Matter of                              ORDER INSTITUTING 
                                              ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
              Michelle V. Nguyen (CPA),       PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                              COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
Respondent.                                   MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                              REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 

                                               
 
 
                                            I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
Michelle V. Nguyen (“Respondent” or “Nguyen”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice.1
                                 
 
                                            II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
                                                 
1
             Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3. below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
        
                     1.           Nguyen, age 48, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to 
practice in the States of California and Maryland.  
        
        2. Meridian Holdings, Inc.             (“Meridian”) was, at all relevant times, a Colorado 
corporation with its principal executive offices in Culver City, California.  In 2004, Meridian 
maintained its principal executive office in Los Angeles, California and its common stock was 
registered with the Commission  pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Exchange Act”), and listed on the NASDAQ Bulletin Board. 
 
                     3.           On September 28, 2007, the Commission filed a complaint against Nguyen 
in SEC v. Meridian Holdings, Inc., et al., Case No. CV 07-06335 DDP (SSx) (C.D. Cal.).  On 
January 6, 2009, the court entered an order permanently enjoining Nguyen, by consent, from 
violating Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 10b-5 and 13b2-1 thereunder, and aiding 
and abetting violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-20 
and 13a-13 thereunder.  Nguyen was also ordered to pay a $15,000 civil money penalty. 
 
                           4.           The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that during the 
 2004 calendar year, Nguyen acted as Meridian’s principal financial officer and interim chief 
 financial officer for purposes of Meridian’s public filings with the Commission and prepared the 
 condensed consolidated financial information included in Meridian’s quarterly reports filed with 
 the Commission.  The Commission’s complaint further alleged that Nguyen, at the direction of 
 Meridian’s Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Bo  ard, participated in a fraudulent 
 scheme which resulted in materially false and misleading financial statements being included in 
 Meridian’s quarterly reports on Form 10-QSB for the second and third quarters of 2004.  The 
 Commission’s complaint also alleged that Nguyen engaged in improper accounting practices 
 that materially increased Meridian’s quarterly revenue and net income in a departure from 
 generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).  These practices included, among other 
 things, creating the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Meridian’s second 
 and third quarter 2004 Forms 10-QSB filed with Commission, which included, as assets and 
 income, a $30 million default judgment award plus accumulated interest thereon.  By 
 recognizing the default judgment and interest thereon as income in its 2004 second and third 
 quarter reports, Meridian reported positive earnings per share for each quarter.  Absent the 
 default judgment and interest, Meridian would have reported losses per share for each quarter.  

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 Additionally, the Commission’s complaint alleged Nguyen caused Meridian to record the default 
 judgment and interest thereon as a $31 million asset on Meridian’s balance sheets, resulting in 
 the default judgment constituting 85% of Meridian’s total assets.  The Commission’s complaint 
 alleged that the inclusion of the default judgment and interest in Meridian’s financial statements 
 was both contrary to GAAP and materially false and misleading because Nguyen had no 
 reasonable basis to conclude that that Meridian would be able to collect any, let alone all, of the 
 default judgment and interest.   
 
                                                 IV. 
                                                    
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Nguyen’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
              A.          Nguyen is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
              B.          After three years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider her reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in her practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which she works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as she practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                                         (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which she is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight      Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which 
she is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any 
criticisms of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that 
would indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
 
   (c) Respondent has resolved all di                          sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 

                                                  3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

   (d) Respondent acknowledges                                         her responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
      
         C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that her state CPA license is 
current and she has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth M. Murphy 
       Secretary 

                                                            4 
