---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                         the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 59637 / March 27, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2954 / March 27, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-13416 
                                            
                                             : 
                                           :       
                                           :        
     In the Matter of                      :      ORDER INSTITUTING 
                                           :       ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
     JUDITH KUDLA (CPA),                  :       PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE  
                                               :  COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
     Respondent.                          :       MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                           :      REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                      : 
____________________________________ : 
                                             
                                             I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Judith  
Kudla (“Respondent” or “Kudla”) pursuant to Ru le 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of   
Practice.1 
           
                                               
                                             II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these  proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) whic h the Commission has determined   to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the         

                                                 
1 
       Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public  interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has  
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any c ourt of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisd  iction over her and the subject matter of these    
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3.  below, which are admitted, Respondent  
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Maki  ng Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions        
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
              1.      Judith Kudla, age 50, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed 
to practice in the State of Michigan since a pproximately 1984.  Kudla served as Director of 
Finance in Delphi Corporation’s (“Delphi”) information technology (“IT”) department from June 
1999 to April 2002, when she was separated by th     e company.  In that   position, Kudla was  
consulted for Generally Accepted Accountin      g Principles (“GAAP”) accounting guidance 
concerning IT department transactions. 
               
              2.      Delphi was, at all relevant times,  an auto parts supplier headquartered in 
Troy, Michigan.  It was incorporated in Delaware in 1998.  At all relevant times, Delphi’s common  
stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of   the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and was listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under  
the symbol “DPH.” 
 
              3.      On October 30, 2006, the Commission filed a complaint against Kudla and 
others in SEC v. Delphi Corporation and Judith Kudla, et al. (Civil Action No. 2:06-cv-14891-AC-
SDP).  On March 26, 2009, the court entered an or der permanently enjoining Kudla, by consent,  
from future violations of Sec tion 17(a) of the Securities Act of   1933 (“Securities Act”), and 
Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5 and 13b2-1 thereunder, and  
aiding and abetting violations of Sections 10  (b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A)  and 13(b)(2)(B) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, and13a-1 th ereunder.  Kudla was al so ordered to pay a  
$30,000 civil money penalty. 
 
              4.      The Commission’s complaint alle    ged, among other things, that Kudla 
engaged in a fraudulent scheme which resulted in  Delphi filing material ly false and misleading 
financial statements in the company’s annual re  port on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
December 31, 2001, which were incorporated by reference into offering documents filed by Delphi  
in connection with its 2003 notes and preferred s ecurities offerings.  Specifically, the Complaint  
alleged that Delphi improperly recorded a $20 million payment from an IT company in December 
2001, made in connection with a new IT contr    act between the IT company and Delphi, as a    
reduction in expense, although the payment was in substance a loan which Delphi was required to  
repay with interest. The Complaint alleged that, when the IT contract was signed, Delphi agreed to 
repay the $20 million over 5 years with interest, through an intentionally opaque scheme involving  
accelerated payments on other IT company service invoices, and using a supplier finance program; 
because the $20 million was refundable, it contra vened GAAP to record the $20 million as an 
immediate reduction of IT expense instead of a Delphi liability to the IT company.  In connection 

                                              -2-
---------------------Page 3---------------------

with the payment, Delphi allegedly entered into a false side letter with the IT company which was  
intended to mislead Delphi’s auditors as to the  correct accounting treatment for the transaction.   
The Complaint alleged that Kudla actively participated in meetings and discussions leading to the  
signing of the relevant contract and a false $20 million payment side letter and then was involved 
in drafting and approving the false work orders through which the repayment was accomplished.   
  
                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Kudla’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
       A.      Kudla is suspended from appearing or  practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
                   B. After three (3) years from the date of th is order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider her reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief 
Accountant) to resume appearing or  practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                                1. a  preparer  or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statemen ts that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy th e Commission that Respondent’s work  in her practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the inde pendent audit committee of the public company 
for which she works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as she practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
        2.             an independent accountant.        Such an applicatio  n must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                         (a)   Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which she is 
associated, is registered with the Public Co  mpany Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                           (b) Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which 
she is associated, has been inspected by the Bo     ard and that inspection did not identify any 
criticisms of or potent ial defects in the Respondent’s or the   firm’s quality control system that 
would indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
 
                             (c) Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of a  ny sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                       (d)     Respondent acknowledges         her responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices   before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 

                                                -3-
---------------------Page 4---------------------

requirements relating to registration, inspections , concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 
      
         C.       The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before th e Commission provided that  her state CPA license is current and she has   
resolved all other disciplinary  issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinst             atement by the Commission, the Commission will                        
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters           referenced above, any other ma            tters relating to Respondent’s 
character, integrity, professional   conduct, or qualifications to a                 ppear or practice before the 
Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                                     M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                               

                                                           -4-
