---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                            
 
                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                      the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 51724 / May 20, 2005 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2249 / May 20, 2005 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-11933 
                                            ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
In the Matter of                            DESIST PROCEEDINGS, MAKING 
                                            FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE-
      DIAGNOSTIC PRODUCTS                   AND-DESIST ORDER PURSUANT TO 
      CORPORATION,                          SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                            EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Respondent. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                          I.  
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Diagnostic Products Corporation (“DPC” or  
“Respondent”).   
                                            
                                          II.  
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to 
Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.    
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1
                                                                                that:  
        
       1. DPC      , a California corporation based in Los Angeles, develops and manufactures 
medical diagnostic test systems and related test kits.  DPC sells its products through subsidiaries 
and distributors in over 100 countries, and overseas sales have accounted for over 70% of its  
annual revenues.  DPC’s common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 
12(b) of the Exchange Act and are traded on the New York Stock Exchange.   
        
       2.     In October 1991, DPC established DePu Biotechnological & Medical Products 
Inc. (“DePu”) in Tianjin, China as a joint venture.  Initially, DPC owned 90% of DePu and the 
joint venture partner was a local Chinese government entity.  In 1997, DePu became a wholly- 
owned subsidiary of DPC.  Throughout the relevant period, the financial results of DePu were a 
component of the consolidated financial statements included in DPC's filings with the 
Commission. 
 
       3.     As discussed below in Paragraph 6, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) 
prohibits public companies from making improper  payments to foreign officials for the purpose of 
influencing their decisions in order to obtain or retain business.  DePu’s customers are primarily 
state-owned hospitals in China.  From 1991 through 2002, DPC through DePu routinely made 
improper commission payments totaling approximately $1.6 million to doctors and laboratory 
employees who controlled purchasing decisions at  these state-owned hospitals.  The commissions 
represented a certain percentage of sales to the hospitals (typically 3% to 10%), and DePu 
determined the percentages based on the prevailing rate in the customer’s region, the sales amount, 
and the prior relationship with the customer.  In most cases the payments were made in cash and 
delivered by DePu’s sales employees by mail or wire transfer.  During the relevant period, DePu’s 
then management knew about, approved, and administered the payment of these commissions.   
        
       4.     From 1991 through 2002, DePu improperly recorded the payments as legitimate 
sales expenses in its books and records. 

       5.     In late October 2002, DePu’s auditors raised certain Chinese tax issues related to 
the commission payments.  In November 2002, DePu’s then senior manager discussed the 
payments and the tax issues in a monthly report to current DPC management, which led to 
DPC’s discovery of these payments.  In January 2003, DPC instructed DePu management to stop 
all commission payments.  DPC also took remedial measures, revised its code of ethics and 
compliance procedures, and established a compliance program with respect to the FCPA.   

       6.     The FCPA, enacted in 1977, added Section 30A to th  e Exchange Act to prohibit 
public companies from, among other things, making improper payments to foreign officials for the  
                                                 
       1 
         The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and 
are not binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   
 
                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

purpose of influencing their decisions in order to obtain or retain business. The FCPA also added 
to the Exchange Act Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and (B), which require public companies to keep 
accurate books and records and have sufficient internal controls.  Public companies are responsible 
for ensuring that their foreign subsidiaries comply with Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and (B), and 30A of 
the Exchange Act.  
        
       7. Throughout the relevant       period, the individuals who received improper payments  
from DePu were foreign officials within the meaning of the FCPA, and the hospitals were 
instrumentalities of a foreign government within the meaning of the FCPA.  The purpose of the 
improper payments was to influence these individuals’ official decisions and to induce them to use 
their influence with the hospitals to assist DPC to obtain or retain business. 
        
       8.      As a result of the conduct described above with respect to the payments of improper 
commissions to individuals, DPC violated Section 30A of the Exchange Act, which prohibits 
making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of influencing their decisions in 
order to obtain or retain business.   
 
       9.      As a result of the conduct described above with respect to the booking of the 
improper payments as legitimate sales expenses, DPC violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the 
Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to make and keep books, records, and accounts  
which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their transactions and dispositions of their 
assets. 
 
       10.     In addition, as evidenced by the duration of the improper payments made by DePu 
and the improper recording of such payments in DePu’s books and records, DPC violated Section 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, which requires all reporting companies to devise and maintain a 
system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that: (i) 
transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and 
(ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in 
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such  
statements, and to maintain accountability for assets.  
         
                                    DPC’s Remedial Efforts  
                                                  
       In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts 
promptly undertaken by Respondent and cooperation afforded the Commission staff.      2 
                                                                                        
                                                  
                                          Undertakings 
                                                  
 Respondent has undert        aken the following: 
 

                                                 
       2
         The Commission also has taken into consideration that DPC will pay a criminal penalty 
in the amount of $2 million in the Department of Justice prosecution for the same conduct 
described in this Order. 
                                                3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       1.     Within 30 days after the date of this Order, DPC shall retain a qualified 
independent compliance consultant (the "Compliance Consultant"), not unacceptable to the staff 
of the Commission, to review annually DPC's compliance with its FCPA policies and procedures 
for a period of three years from the date of engagement.  DPC shall cause the Compliance 
Consultant to complete its review and submit a report annually on the anniversary date of its 
engagement, in which it shall document its findings and, if necessary, make recommendations 
(the "Report") to DPC’s Board of Directors, a copy of which shall be transmitted 
contemporaneously to the staff of the Commission.  In the event a Report contains any 
recommendation for further action by DPC, within 90 days after receiving the Report, DPC's 
Board of Directors shall advise the staff of the Commission, in writing, of all decisions and 
determinations it has made as a result of the Report.   
       2.     In the event DPC is acquired by another company and becomes a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of the acquiring company before it has fully complied with all of the terms of the 
above paragraph 1, DPC's obligations under paragraph 1 shall remain in effect only as to DPC as 
a wholly-owned subsidiary and only as to DPC's Board of Directors as constituted following the 
acquisition.  In the event DPC is acquired by another company and ceases to be a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of such acquiring company before DPC has fully complied with all of the terms of this 
paragraph, DPC's obligations under paragraph 1 shall terminate upon the Compliance 
Consultant’s submission of a report acceptable to the staff of the Commission certifying that (i) it 
has reviewed the FCPA compliance program of the acquiring company; (ii) such program is 
adequate; and (iii) DPC’s operations are adequately integrated into such compliance program, 
otherwise, the acquiring company shall assume DPC’s obligations under paragraph 1.  
       3.     DPC (i) shall not have the authority to terminate the Compliance Consultant 
without the prior written approval of the majority of DPC’s independent board members and the 
staff of the Commission; (ii) shall compensate the Compliance Consultant, and persons engaged 
to assist the Compliance Consultant, for services rendered pursuant to the Order at their 
reasonable and customary rates; and (iii) shall not be in and shall not have an attorney-client 
relationship with the Compliance Consultant and shall not seek to invoke the attorney-client 
privilege or any other doctrine or privilege to prevent the Compliance Consultant from  
transmitting any information, reports, or documents to the board members or staff of the 
Commission.  
       4.     DPC shall require the Compliance Consultant to enter into an agreement that 
provides that for the period of engagement and for a period of two years from completion of the 
engagement, the Compliance Consultant shall not enter into any employment, consultant, 
attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with DPC, or any of its present or 
former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such.  DPC 
shall require that any firm with which the Compliance Consultant is affiliated, and any person 
engaged to assist the Compliance Consultant in performance of his or her duties under this 
Order, shall not, without prior written consent of the independent board members and the staff of 
the Commission, enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other 
professional relationship with DPC, or any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers, 
employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such for the period of the engagement and for a 
period of two years after the engagement. 
        
                                               4
  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 
                                                    IV. 
                                                      
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission  deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions   
agreed to in Respondent DPC’s Offer.      
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby  ORDERED that:  
 
        A.      Respondent DPC cease and desist from  committing or causing any violations and  
any future violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B), and 30A of the Exchange Act.  
 
                    B. Respondent DPC shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement  
in the amount of $2,038,727, and prejudgment inte     rest thereon in the amount of $749,895, for a total 
payment of $2,788,622 to the United States Treas     ury.  Such payment shall be: (A) made by United 
States postal money order, certified check, bank cashier's check or bank money order; (B) made  
payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission; (C) hand-delivered or mailed to the Office of  
Financial Management, Securities and Exchange Commission, Operations Center, 6432 General 
Green Way, Alexandria, Stop 0-3, VA 22312; and (D) submitted under cover letter that identifies 
Diagnostic Products Corporation as a Respondent in these proceedings, the file number of these 
proceedings, a copy of which cover letter and money order or check shall be sent to Michele Wein 
Layne, Assistant Regional Director, Pacific Regional Office, Securities and Exchange 
Commission, 5670 Wilshire Boulevard, 11       th
                                                Floor, Los Angeles, California 90036.  
 
 C.             Respondent shall comply     with the undertakings enumerated in Section III above. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Jonathan                                                       G. Katz
       Secretary                                                     
 

                                                     5
  
