---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  

                                         Before the 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 59363 / February 5, 2009 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 2931 / February 5, 2009 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-10354 

                            : 
                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
In the Matter of 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN INDEPENDENT 
Jeffrey M. Yonkers, CPA 
                           :  ACCOUNTANT 
                           : 
                           
        

       On July 27, 2001, Jeffrey M. Yonkers, CPA (“Yonkers”) was denied the privilege of 
appearing or practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of 
the Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                     On February 15, 2008, Yonkers was reinstated to appear 
and practice before the Commission as an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of 
financial statements required to be filed with the Commission.2
                                                              This order is issued in response 
to Yonkers’ application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
independent accountant. 

         The Commission alleged that the financial statements of Detour Magazine, Inc. 
(“Detour”) contained in their filings with the Commission during 1997 and 1998, as audited by 
Yonkers and others, materially misrepresented the company’s financial condition and results of 
operation.  Based upon his conduct during the audits of Detour’s financial statements, the 
Commission determined that Yonkers had willfully violated Section 10A of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and willfully aided and abetted Detour’s violations of 
Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder.  The Commission 
also determined that Yonkers engaged in improper professional conduct under Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice.  

                                                 
1 
 See  Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 1428 dated July 27, 2001.  Yonkers was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after one year upon making certain showings. 
 
2 
 See  Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2787 dated February 15, 2008. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                      

 
       Yonkers has met all of the conditions set forth in his suspension order and, in his capacity 
as an independent accountant, has stated that he will comply with all requirements of the 
Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, including, but not limited to 
all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
control standards. 
        
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”     3
                                                              This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Yonkers, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the July 27, 2001 order suspending 
him from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no information 
has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character,   integrity, professional 
conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis for adverse 
action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, and that 
Yonkers, by undertaking to comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board, including, but not limited to all requirements relating to 
registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards in his practice 
before the Commission as an independent accountant, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  
Therefore, it is accordingly, 
        
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Jeffrey M. Yonkers, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as 
an independent accountant. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                                
                                                
                                               Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                               Secretary 

                                                 
3
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3)  
of this section may be made at any time, and the applic ant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated                         
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i).                        
 

                                                  2
 
