---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 
 UNITED STATES                                              OF AMERICA 
 BEFORE THE 
                                            SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  51895 / June 21, 2005 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2262 / June 21, 2005 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-11960 
                                                      
                                                      :  
 :  
 :  
        In the Matter of                                         :             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                                                     :             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
             James H. David, Jr., CPA,                  :             102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                                                     :             PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
             Respondent.                                              :             IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                               :      
                                               :      
____________________________________ :         
   
 
                                                        I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against James 
H. David, Jr., CPA (“David” or “Respondent”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.  1
                        

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                 
                                               II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
                     1.           David, age 40, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to 
practice in the State of New York.  He served as Chief Financial Officer of Take-Two Interactive 
Software, Inc. (“Take-Two”) from July 2000 until December 2001, at which time he became head 
of the Credit and Collection department at Take-Two until his resignation in February 2002. 
        
                     2.           Take-Two was, at all relevant times, a Delaware corporation with its 
principal place of business in New York, New York.  Take-Two develops, markets and publishes 
interactive entertainment software games for the personal computer as well as video game consoles. 
At all relevant times, Take-Two’s common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to 
Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and is currently listed on 
NASDAQ under the symbol “TTWO.”  For its fiscal year ended October 31, 2003, Take-Two 
reported over $1 billion in revenue. 
 
                     3.           On June 13, 2005, a final judgment was entered against David, permanently 
enjoining him from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities 
Act”), Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 
thereunder, and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder, in the civil action entitled 
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc., et al., Civil Action 
Number 05-civ-5443 (DLC), in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New 
York.  David was also barred from serving as an officer or director of any public company for 10 
years, and was ordered to pay $641,620 in disgorgement of ill-gotten gains from his sales of stock 
while participating in the fraud, plus prejudgment interest thereon, and a $200,000 civil money 
penalty. 
 
                             4.      The Commission’s Complaint alleged, among other things, that David 
 engaged in a fraudulent video game parking and accounting scheme during Take-Two’s 2000 
 and 2001 fiscal years which resulted in Take-Two filing materially false and misleading 

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 financial statements in the company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
 October 31, 2000, and in the company’s quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended 
 July 31, 2000, April 30, 2001, and July 31, 2001.  The Complaint alleged that David engaged in 
 a number of fraudulent accounting practices that materially increased Take-Two’s annual and 
 quarterly revenue and net income in a departure from generally accepted accounting principles 
 (“GAAP”).  These practices included, among other things:  (1) recognizing revenue on 
 fraudulent sales; (2) discussing with other officers the fraudulent sales and parking transactions 
 during 2000 and 2001 – including the disguising of returns as purchases of new inventory as 
 well as the impact of those transactions on Take-Two’s reported financials; and (3) signing 
 quarterly and annual reports with knowledge of the parking-related material misrepresentations 
 contained therein.  In addition, the Complaint alleged that David made materially misleading 
 statements to Take-Two’s independent auditors by signing management representation letters 
 falsely certifying that no fraud existed at the Company. 
 
                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent David’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
              A.          David is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
              B.          After ten years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention:  Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
 
                            1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  
Such an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice 
before the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the 
public company for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he 
practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
  2. an independent acco                   untant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
 
                                          (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be 
effective; 
 
                                          (b)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any 

                                                 3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that 
would indicate that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
 
                                          (c)         Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, 
and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other 
than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
   (d) Respondent acknowledges                                    his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, 
all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
control standards. 
 
              C.          The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current 
and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependant on reinstatement by the Commission, 
the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review 
may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters 
relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear 
or practice before the Commission. 
 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Jonathan G. Katz 
       Secretary 

                                                        4 
