---------------------Page 1---------------------

   

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 57612 / April 3, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 2806 / April 3, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-11457 

                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
John Luczycki, CPA  
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                          
        

       On April 14, 2004, John Luczycki (“Luczycki”) was denied the privilege of appearing or 
practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public administrative 
proceedings instituted by the Commission against Luczycki pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                 Luczycki consented to the entry of the order without admitting 
or denying the findings therein.  This order is issued in response to Luczycki’s application for 
reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant responsible for the 
preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed with the Commission. 

                  During the period from December 2000 to July 2002, Luczycki served as Vivendi 
Universal, S.A.’s (“Vivendi”) Chief Accounting Officer and controller.  The Commission’s order 
found that, in this capacity, Luczycki, along with other Vivendi senior executives, made 
improper adjustments that allowed Vivendi to meet earnings targets that it had communicated to 
the market.  In addition, Luczycki knew or was reckless in not knowing that Vivendi improperly 
failed to disclose a side agreement that Vivendi entered into in February 2001.  Finally, Luczycki 
participated in Vivendi’s failure to disclose in a timely manner all of the material facts about 
Vivendi’s investment in a fund in June, 2001. 
 
       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Luczycki 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 1989 dated April 14, 2004.  Luczycki was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after three years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Luczycki is not, at this time, seeking to 
appear or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to 
resume appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will 
be required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Luczycki’s 
denial of the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an independent 
accountant continues in effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has 
been made in this regard in accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 
        
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Luczycki, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the April 14, 2004 order denying 
him the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 
and that Luczycki, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit 
committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, in his practice before the Commission as a preparer    or reviewer of financial 
statements required to be filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  
Therefore, it is accordingly, 
        
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that John 
Luczycki, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                               
                                               
                                              Nancy M. Morris  
                                              Secretary  

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
 

                                                 2
