---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                      the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 51629 / April 28, 2005 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2240 / April 28, 2005 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-11918 
 
                                               ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
In the Matter of                               ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-
                                         AND-DESIST PROC            EEDINGS PURSUANT 
      Dawn Diaz, CPA                           TO SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                               EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND RULE 
Respondent.                                    102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                               PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                               IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND  
                                               A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER  
  
 
                                           I.  
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Rule 
102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice1
                                               and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Dawn Diaz, CPA (“Diaz” or  “Respondent”).  
                                            
                                          II.  
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (“Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of  
these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over her and the  subject matter of these proceedings, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative and Cease-and-Desist 
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
      The Commission may…deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before it…to any person who is found…to have engaged in…improper professional 
conduct. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a 
Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and the Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:                                     
 
A.      RESPONDENT  
 
       Dawn Diaz, age 41, was Chief Financial Officer of Rexhall Industries, Inc. (“Rexhall”) 
from February 2001 to July 2002, when her employment was terminated.  Diaz is, and at all 
relevant times was, licensed in California as a certified public accountant.  Prior to joining Rexhall, 
Diaz worked for three years at a large public accounting firm, and held various accounting 
positions at public and private companies, including director of accounting, controller, and vice-
president of finance. 
        
B. RELEVANT ENTITY              

       Rexhall Industries, Inc., based in Lancaster, California, designs, manufactures, and sells 
various models of motor homes.  At all relevant times, Rexhall’s comm  on stock was registered 
under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and traded on the Nasdaq National Market.    

C. SUMMARY           
 
       In preparing Rexhall’s financial statements for the first quarter of 2002, Diaz was presented 
with two materially different calculations for raw materials inventory; one calculation was based 
on a physical inventory count, and the second calculation was based on a computer model that she 
designed.  The computer model figure was materially higher than the physical count figure.  
Without reconciling the two figures, and without bringing the discrepancy to the attention of the 
outside audit firm, Diaz used the higher figure in preparing the financial statements for the quarter.  
In fact, the higher figure that Diaz used was incorrect.  As a result,  the company incorrectly 
reported net income of $181,000 (earnings of $.03 per share) in its Form 10-Q for the quarter.  
When Rexhall later discovered that Diaz had used the incorrect figure, the company restated its 
financial statements for the quarter to reflect the correct figure.  Rexhall’s restatement reported a  
net loss for the quarter of $253,000 (a loss of $.04 per share) instead of the previously reported net 
income of $181,000 (earnings of $.03 per share).      
 
D. FACTS        
                       
       1.     Raw Materials Inventory and Its Relationship to Earnings  
        
       Rexhall’s raw materials inventory includes all parts, other than the chassis, required to  
manufacture its motor homes.  Raw materials inventory is one component of the cost of goods 
sold.  When raw materials inventory is higher, cost of goods sold will be lower.  And when cost of  
goods sold is lower, net income will be higher.  Therefore, a higher raw materials inventory figure 
will result in higher earnings. 
                                                2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

        
       2.      The 1st Quarter Inventory Calculations and Erroneous Reporting of Earnings         
 
       As part of its procedures for preparing quarterly financial statements, Rexhall conducts a 
physical count of raw materials inventory at the close of each quarter.  At the close of the first 
quarter of 2002, Diaz received the physical count for the quarter which showed a raw materials 
inventory amount of $2,695,872.  At about the same time, Diaz used a computer model she had 
designed to derive a second inventory figure.  Diaz’s computer model showed a raw materials 
inventory calculation of $3,374,024, which was $678,152 higher than the physical count 
calculation. 

       Without reconciling the discrepancy between the two figures, and without bringing the 
$678,152 discrepancy to the attention of the company’s outside audit firm, Diaz used the higher 
figure in preparing Rexhall’s financial statements for the quarter.  It was later discovered that the 
higher figure was incorrect.  By using the incorrect higher figure, the financial statements for the 
quarter reflected a lower cost of goods sold and correspondingly higher net income than if the 
lower (correct) inventory figure had been used.  Accordingly, in its Form 10-Q for the first 
quarter of 2002, Rexhall incorrectly reported net income of $181,000 and earnings of $.03 a 
share. 

       The error was discovered at the end of the second quarter 2002, as Diaz prepared 
Rexhall’s financial statements.  At that time, Diaz’s computer model showed an inventory 
calculation that was approximately $1.5 million higher than the physical count inventory 
calculation.  Diaz told Rexhall’s chief operating officer about the $1.5 million discrepancy and 
her inability to reconcile the two numbers.  At about the same time, Diaz also informed the chief 
operating officer that she had used an unreconciled inventory calculation in the financial 
statements that were included in the Form 10-Q for the first quarter. 

       In July 2002, after Rexhall learned the full extent of the inventory calculation 
discrepancies for the first and second quarters, Diaz submitted a resignation letter to the 
company, and the company terminated her employment that same day.  Rexhall also delayed 
filing its Form 10-Q for the second quarter and disclosed the nature of the accounting problems 
in a press release.  Rexhall’s audit committee retained outside counsel to conduct an independent 
investigation of the problems, and Rexhall shared the findings of the independent investigation 
with the Commission staff. 

       Upon completion of the investigation by outside counsel, Rexhall restated its first quarter 
earnings to reflect the accurate calculation for raw materials inventory.  As a result of the  
restatement, Rexhall reported a net loss of $253,000 and loss of $.04 a share for the quarter, 
rather than the originally reported net income of $181,000 and earnings of $.03 a share. 

        

                                                3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

E.	 VIOLATIONS          
        
        1.	     Reporting Violations:  Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 
              13a-13 Thereunder  
        
       Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-13 thereunder require issuers with 
securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act to file quarterly reports with the 
Commission.  See, e.g., SEC v. Savoy Indus., Inc., 587 F.2d 1149, 1165 (D.C. Cir. 1978), cert.  
denied, 440 U.S. 913 (1979).  Rule 12b-20 under the Exchange Act similarly requires that these 
reports contain any material information necessary to make the required statements made in the 
report not misleading.  SEC v. Falstaff Brewing, 629 F.2d 62, 72 (D.C. Cir. 1980). 

       As discussed above, for the first quarter of 2002, Diaz caused Rexhall to file a false and 
misleading quarterly report with the Commission that misrepresented the financial results of 
Rexhall, overstating net income and earnings.  Diaz caused Rexhall’s violations of Section 13(a) 
and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-13 thereunder by participating in preparing and signing the quarterly 
report that included the overstated net income and earnings.   

       2. 	   Record-Keeping Provisions:  Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rule 
              13b2-1 Thereunder   
 
       Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires Section 12 registrants to make and 
keep books, records, and accounts that accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of their assets.  Rule 13b2-1 prohibits the falsification of any book, record, or 
account subject to Section 13(b)(2)(A). 

       As a result of the actions taken by Diaz as described above, for the first quarter of 2002, 
Rexhall’s books and records reflecting the transactions and dispositions of its assets were 
inaccurate.  Diaz therefore caused Rexhall’s violation of Section 13(b)(2)(A) and violated Rule 
13b2-1. 

       3. 	   Internal Controls Provision:  Sections 13(b)(2)(B) and 13(b)(5) of the 
              Exchange Act  
 
       Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires issuers with securities registered 
pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act to devise and maintain a system of internal 
accounting controls sufficient to reasonably assure, among other things, that transactions are 
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP. 
Section 13(b)(5) prohibits any person from knowingly circumventing a system of internal 
accounting controls or knowingly failing to implement a system of internal accounting controls.      

       Diaz caused Rexhall’s violation of Section 13(b)(2)(B).  As Rexhall’s CFO, she was 
ultimately responsible for ensuring that the company had an adequate system of internal controls 
in place and that those controls were maintained and properly utilized.  By recording materially 
incorrect inventory results in Rexhall’s books and records, Diaz failed to assure that Rexhall 
maintained an adequate system of internal accounting controls to properly account for inventory.  
                                               4
  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

Diaz also violated Section 13(b)(5) by entering into Rexhall’s financial statements her calculated 
inventory number rather than the correct physical count.     

       4. 	   Improper Professional Conduct: Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules 
              of Practice  
        
       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides, in part, that the 
Commission may censure or deny the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission 
to any person who is found by the Commission to have engaged in improper professional conduct.  
Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(1) defines one type of improper professional conduct with respect to persons 
licensed to practice as accountants to mean “a single instance of highly unreasonable conduct that 
results in a violation of applicable professional  standards in circumstances in which an accountant 
knows, or should know, that heightened scrutiny is warranted.”    
        
       As Rexhall’s Chief Financial Officer, Diaz was responsible for internal accounting, 
including implementing applicable accounting pronouncements and maintaining the books and 
records; communications with the company’s outside auditors; and financial reporting.  In the  
preparation of Rexhall’s first quarter financials, Diaz failed to reconcile the discrepancy between 
the physical inventory count and an internally generated figure, failed to bring the discrepancy to 
the attention of the outside audit firm, and recorded the incorrect inventory amount in the financial 
statements for the quarter.  The improper recording of the inventory figure caused Rexhall’s 
income statement to be misstated by a material amount.  Diaz’s actions in connection with the 
reporting of Rexhall’s materially incorrect financial statements for the first quarter of 2002 
constitute improper professional conduct. 
 
F.	      Findings  
 
       1.     Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Diaz:  (a) caused Rexhall’s 
violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 
and 13a-13 thereunder; and (b) violated Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-1 
thereunder.  
 
       2.     Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Diaz engaged in improper 
professional conduct within the meaning of Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice. 
 
                                              IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
       A.     Diaz shall cease and desist from causing any violations and any future violations of 
Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-13 

                                               5
  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

thereunder, and from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 
13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13b2-1 thereunder. 
  
       B.      Diaz is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
                    C. After three years from the date of this Order, Diaz may request that the 
Commission consider her reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the  
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                                1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Diaz’s work in her practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which she works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as she practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
      
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
 
                                                                        (a) Diaz, or the public accounting firm with which she is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) 
in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be 
effective; 
 
                       (b)     Diaz, or the registered pub lic accounting firm with which she is 
associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of 
or potential defects in Diaz’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that Diaz 
will not receive appropriate supervision; or, if the Board has not conducted an inspection, has 
received an unqualified report relating to her, or the firm’s, most recent peer review conducted in 
accordance with the guidelines adopted by the former SEC Practice Section of the American 
Institute of Certified Public Accountants Division for CPA Firms or an organization providing 
equivalent oversight and quality control functions; 

                             (c) Diaz has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has 
complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                       (d)     Diaz acknowledges her responsibility, as long as she appears or 
practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all requirements 
of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to 
registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
      
       D.      The Commission will consider an application by Diaz to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that her state CPA license is current and she has 

                                                  6
  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependant on reinstatement by the Co                      mmission, the Commission will  
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Diaz’s character, 
integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission.                                             
 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Jonathan                                                                          G. Katz
       Secretary                                                                        

                                                                    7
  
