---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED                                STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                          the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  59541 / March 9, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2945 / March 9, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-13399 
                                            
                                             : 
                                           :       
                                           :        
       In the Matter of                    :      ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                             :    PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
                LISA W. ZAPPALA (CPA),   :        102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                             :    PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
              Respondent.                  :      IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                       : 
                                                       : 
____________________________________ :              
                                                   
 
                                              I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Lisa W. 
Zappala (CPA) (“Respondent” or “Zappala”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1 
                    
 
 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent  
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III.  
 
  On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
        
              1.      Zappala, age 49, served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
(“CFO”) at Aspen Technology, Inc. from at least September 1998 until she resigned as CFO in  
approximately July 2003.  Thereafter, she took on an advisory role at Aspen until she resigned in  
approximately December 2004.  Zappala was previously a certified public accountant (“CPA”)  
licensed to practice in the State of Massachusetts; her CPA license lapsed in or about 1994.    
        
              2.      Aspen was, at all relevant times,  a Delaware corporation with its principal 
place of business in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  During the relevant period, Aspen was engaged in  
the business of selling computer software and related services to industries such as petroleum, 
chemicals, and pharmaceuticals.  At all relevant times, Aspen’s common stock was registered with  
the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 
Act”), and traded on the NASDAQ National Market system. 
 
              3.      On January 8, 2007, the Commission filed a complaint against Zappala in 
SEC v. Evans, et al. (Civil Action No. 1:07-cv-10027-JLT).  On February 26, 2009, the court 
entered an order permanently enjoining Zappala, by consent, from future violations of Section 
17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 and Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 
10b-5, 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder, and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 
thereunder.  Zappala was also ordered to pay $49,653 in disgorgement of ill-gotten gains from her 
sales of stock during the period of the alleged fraud, together with prejudgment interest thereon in 
the amount of $20,347 and a $75,000 civil money penalty, and was barred from serving as an 
officer and director of a public company for two years. 
 
              4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that between at 
 least 1999 and 2002, Zappala and two other former senior executives at Aspen engaged in a 
 fraudulent scheme which resulted in Aspen improperly recognizing revenue on at least six 
 different transactions involving at least five different customers worldwide and the filing of 
 materially false and misleading statements in various Form 10-K annual reports, Form 10-Q 

                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 quarterly reports, and Form 8-K current reports during periods including fiscal years 2000 
 through 2004.  The Complaint further alleged that Zappala engaged in a number of improper 
 accounting practices that materially overstated Aspen’s net income and revenue in fiscal years 
 2000 and 2001 and that materially understated Aspen’s net income and revenue in fiscal years 
 2002, 2003, and 2004, in a departure from generally accepted accounting principles.  According 
 to the complaint, these practices included, among other things, prematurely and improperly 
 recognizing revenue on contracts that had not been signed within the appropriate fiscal period or 
 for earnings that had not been completed due to side letters or other contingency arrangements  
 which changed the terms of the customers’ contractual payment obligations.  In addition, the  
 complaint alleged that Zappala provided numerous false management representation letters to 
 Aspen’s outside auditors between August 1999 and April 2002.  The complaint also alleged that  
 Zappala obtained proceeds from exercising stock options and selling artificially inflated Aspen 
 stock into the marketplace.      
 
                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Zappala’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
       A.      Zappala is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
       B.      After two years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the  
Commission consider her reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the  
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                                1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in her practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which she works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as she practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
      
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                            (a) Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which she is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight    Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which  
she is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any 

                                                3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that 
would indicate that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                  (c)              Respondent has resolved all di     sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                          (d)      Respondent acknowledges        her responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 
      
        C.       The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume  
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that her state CPA license is 
current and she has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                               M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                         

                                                        4
  
