---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 

 
                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                         Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No.  54667 / October 30, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No.  2502 / October 30, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No.  3-12465 
 
In the Matter of                       ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
                                       PROCEEDINGS, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
        LAURA MARION,                  IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
                                       PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF THE 
Respondent.                            SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
                                                                  
 
                                             I. 

       The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), against Laura Marion (“Marion” or the 
“Respondent”). 

                                             II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting 
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order 
Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.1

                                                 
1
       In a separate civil action filed simultaneously with this proceeding, Marion has separately consented to the 
       entry of a judgment by the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan pursuant to Section 
       21(d) of the Exchange Act ordering her to pay a civil penalty of $40,000.  SEC v. Delphi Corporation, et 
       al., Civil Action No. 2:06-cv-14891 (AC) (E.D. Mich. Oct. 30, 2006). 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                      III. 

               On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 2

               A.     Respondent and Delphi Corporation 

                      1.     Respondent 

               Marion, 34, is a resident of Rochester Hills, Michigan.  Marion is an accountant and, at 
       all relevant times, was Director of Financial Accounting and Reporting of Delphi Corporation 
       (“Delphi”).  

                      2.     Delphi 

               Delphi is an auto parts supplier headquartered in Troy, Michigan.  At all relevant times, 
       Delphi’s common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the 
       Exchange Act and was listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the symbol 
       “DPH.”  On October 8, 2005, Delphi filed for bankruptcy in the Southern District of New York.  
       On November 11, 2005, Delphi was delisted from the NYSE.  Delphi’s common stock is now 
       registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and trades in the 
       over the counter market and is quoted in the pink sheets under the symbol “DPHIQ.” 

               B.     Facts 

                      1.     Introduction 

               This case involves Marion’s involvement in Delphi’s reporting and books-and-records 
       violations related to two inventory transactions in the fourth quarter of 2000.  The transactions 
       involved Delphi’s purported sales of inventory to a financial institution (the “Financial 
       Institution”) and a Michigan consulting company (the “Consulting Company”), and Delphi’s 
       simultaneous agreement to repurchase the inventory in the first quarter of 2001, at the original 
       purchase prices plus fees.  Delphi improperly accounted for the transactions as sales, rather than 
       as financing transactions. 

                      2.     Delphi’s inventory transactions 

               In the fourth quarter of 2000, Delphi personnel conceived of a scheme to temporarily 
       move precious metals, automotive batteries and generator cores off of Delphi’s balance sheet in 
       order to generate income and operating cash flow.  On or about December 5, 2000, these Delphi 
       employees wrote a handwritten note, addressed to Marion, stating that they had been instructed 
       by a member of senior management to “maximize the financial engineering relating to [precious 
       metals], cores and batteries.” 

                                                        
       2
               The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any 
               other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                                       2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

              In December 2000, Delphi entered into an arrangement whereby Delphi sold precious 
       metals inventories to the Financial Institution for approximately $199 million and simultaneously 
       entered a forward agreement, by which Delphi agreed to repurchase the metals from the 
       Financial Institution in January 2001, for approximately $202.5 million.  Consistent with the 
       agreement, Delphi did, in fact, repurchase the inventory from the Financial Institution in January 
       2001 for approximately $202.5 million.  As Director of Financial Accounting and Reporting, 
       Marion reviewed the transaction documents and transmitted a document to Delphi’s auditors, 
       prepared by another Delphi employee and edited by Marion, that purported to support the 
       $202.5 million purchase price through an analysis of the future price of metals. 

              Also in December 2000, Delphi entered into an arrangement whereby it sold automotive 
       battery and generator core inventory to the Consulting Company for $70 million.  Marion 
       understood that Delphi had described this transaction to Delphi’s auditors as a sales transaction 
       and had told the auditors that there was no agreement to repurchase the battery and core 
       inventory from the Consulting Company.  In fact, outside of Marion’s presence, a Delphi 
       executive had entered an oral agreement with the Consulting Company to repurchase the 
       inventory for $70 million plus a $350,000 fee.  Prior to Delphi filing its Form 10-K for the period 
       ended December 31, 2000, Marion became aware that Delphi had repurchased the inventory in 
       January 2001 for the original $70 million purchase price and had paid the Consulting Company a 
       fee.  

                      3.     Marion receives a document characterizing the inventory transactions 
                             as structured finance transactions. 

              On February 5, 2001, prior to Delphi filing its Form 10-K for the period ended December 
       31, 2000, Marion was asked by Delphi’s then controller and chief accounting officer to obtain a 
       “spec[ific] breakout of costs” for the December inventory transactions, including detail of the 
       structuring fees and financing costs.  Within a day, Marion received a document with those 
       details (the “February 2001 Document”).  The February 2001 Document provided several pieces 
       of information that indicated that the December 2000 transactions were not sales of inventory, 
       but instead were financing transactions.  First, the February 2001 Document was titled “4th
                                                                                                  
       Quarter 2000 Structured Finance Initiatives Cost Breakdown.”  In addition, the February 2001 
       Document showed that Delphi had paid the Financial Institution a $2 million structuring fee and 
       approximately $1.5 million in interest and other costs.  The total of these fees and costs was 
       equal to the difference between the $199 million price at which the Financial Institution 
       purchased the precious metals from Delphi and the $202.5 million price reflected in the forward 
       contract.  Finally, the February 2001 Document showed that Delphi had paid the Consulting 
       Company a Structuring Fee of $350,000.  Marion reviewed and annotated the document.  Her 
       annotations indicated that she understood that Delphi had repurchased the inventory for the 
       original sales price, plus the structuring fees and associated interest and other costs.  On February 
       6, 2001, Marion forwarded the document, with her annotations, to Delphi’s controller and chief 
       accounting officer. 

                                                      3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                      4.     Marion assists in preparation of financial statements and disclosures 
                             that improperly report inventory transactions. 

              On February 8, 2001, Delphi issued its 2000 Form 10-K.  Marion had a substantial role in 
       preparing and reviewing the filing.  The Form 10-K reflected Delphi’s improper accounting for 
       the inventory transactions as sales rather than as financing transactions.  As a result of Delphi’s 
       improper accounting, Delphi improperly recognized approximately $200 million in cash flow 
       from operations and overstated its earnings per share by approximately 13 cents or 36% of the 
       originally reported earnings for the quarter and 7% of the originally reported earnings for the full 
       year.  Also in the filing, Delphi reported year-end reductions in inventory and associated costs, 
       and improperly attributed those reductions to Delphi’s “aggressive inventory management.”  In 
       fact, the majority of Delphi’s purported inventory improvements were the result of the temporary 
       “structured finance” transactions with the Financial Institution and Consulting Company.  
       Moreover, these transactions resulted in approximately $4 million in cost increases to Delphi. 

                      5.     Marion’s role in Delphi’s books and records and reporting violations 

              As a senior accountant and Director of Financial Accounting and Reporting at Delphi, 
       Marion was one of several Delphi officers and employees who was responsible for ensuring that 
       Delphi’s financial statements and related disclosures in its periodic reports, and well as its other 
       books and records, accurately reflected the true substance of the inventory transactions.  Based 
       on the February 2001 Document, Marion knew or should have known that Delphi had not 
       engaged in sales transactions with the Financial Institution and Consulting Company, but instead 
       had engaged in financing transactions.  Nevertheless, Marion took no steps to follow up on the 
       information contained in the February 2001 Document, to consider how it might impact Delphi’s 
       accounting for the transactions or to share the information in the document with Delphi’s 
       auditors.  Marion also did not correct language in Delphi’s Form 10-K that falsely attributed 
       Delphi’s inventory reductions to “aggressive inventory management.” 

              C.     Conclusion 

              As a result of the conduct described above, Marion was a cause of Delphi’s violations of 
       Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-1 promulgated thereunder, which 
       require reporting companies to file accurate annual reports with the Commission. 

              Also as a result of the conduct described above, Marion was a cause of Delphi’s 
       violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to 
       make and keep books, records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly 
       reflect their transactions and dispositions of their assets.  

                                                       4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                                    IV. 

              In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
       agreed to in Respondent Marion’s Offer. 

              Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that Respondent Marion cease and desist from 
       causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the 
       Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-1 promulgated thereunder. 

              By the Commission. 

        
        
        
                                                  Nancy M. Morris  
                                                  Secretary  

                                                     5 
 
