---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 53820 / May 17, 2006 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 2430 / May 17, 2006 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-11714 

                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
John M. Wong, CPA  
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                          
        

       On October 20, 2004, John M. Wong ("Wong") was denied the privilege of appearing or 
practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public administrative 
proceedings instituted by the Commission against Wong pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the 
Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                 This order is issued in response to Wong’s application for 
reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant responsible for the 
preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed with the Commission. 

                  Wong was alleged to have engaged in improper professional conduct in connection 
with performing the reviews and audits of the financial statements filed by Gemstar-TV Guide 
International, Inc. (“Gemstar”) from the quarter ended September 30, 1999 through the fiscal 
year ended March 31, 2000.  During this time, Wong was employed as the engagement partner 
for KPMG LLP’s audits and reviews of the financial statements of Gemstar.  As the engagement 
partner, Wong allegedly failed to exercise professional care and skepticism, failed to obtain 
sufficient competent evidential matter and over-relied on Gemstar’s management representations 
with respect to the audit and review of Gemstar’s financial statements.  In addition, Wong 
allegedly failed to take appropriate action to correct disclosures that did not comply with GAAP 
and were inconsistent with Gemstar’s financial statements.  Finally, Wong allegedly failed to 
render accurate audit reports. 
                                               

                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2125 dated October 20, 2004.  Wong was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after one year upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                    

       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Wong 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Wong is not, at this time, seeking to appear 
or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume 
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be 
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Wong’s 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 
        
       Wong is currently subject to probation under the California Board of Accountancy that is 
scheduled to end in March 2008.  Failure to abide by the terms of the probation could result in 
the revocation of Wong’s CPA license pending notice and an opportunity to be heard by the 
California Board of Accountancy.  Wong has attested that he will notify the Commission if he is 
found to have violated the terms of the probation.  He has also attested that he understands that 
the revocation of his CPA license could result in the revocation of the reinstatement of his 
privilege to appear or practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person 
responsible for the preparation or review, of financial statements required to be filed with the 
Commission. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Wong, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the October 20, 2004 order denying 
him the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 
and that Wong, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in his 
practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 
 
                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
 

                                                 2
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                                

 
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that John 
M. Wong, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                            
                                            
                                            
                                           Nancy M. Morris  
                                           Secretary  

                                              3
