---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                         the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  55554 / March 29, 2007 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2587 / March 29, 2007 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12603 
                                                 
In the Matter of                                ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
       AMBER SCHATZ, CPA,                       PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
Respondent.                                     MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                                REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                          
                                          
                                            
                                                   
                                              I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Amber Schatz, CPA 
(“Respondent” or “Schatz”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.1
                                               
                                             II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                                 
1
               Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
                 The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before 
it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct. 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                  III. 
  
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds2
                                                                                      that:  
 
A. SUMMARY 
 
              While employed by the auditing firm PricewaterhouseCoopers (“PwC”), Texas-licensed 
CPA Amber Schatz served as a senior associate on PwC’s audit teams that conducted the 
independent audits of the 1998 and 1999 financial statements of Patterson-UTI, Inc. (“Patterson-
UTI”).  During the 1999 audit, Schatz received a $40,500 personal loan fr   om Patterson-UTI’s chief 
financial officer (“CFO”) at the time.  As a result of receiving the loan, which Schatz concealed 
from PwC, Schatz engaged in improper professional conduct by failing to maintain strict 
independence from the audit client as required under generally accepted auditing standards 
(“GAAS”). 
 
B. RESPONDENT 
 
              Amber Schatz, a Texas-licensed CPA, was employed by PwC from 1996 through 2002.  
Schatz participated in PwC’s audits of the 1998 and 1999 financial statements of Patterson-UTI, a 
public company based in Snyder, Texas.  Currently, she is not employed. 
 
C. FACTS 
 
       1.           Schatz was a member of the PwC team that audited Patterson-UTI’s financial 
statements for the fiscal years 1998 and 1999.  During the 1999 audit, she served as a PwC senior 
associate, conducting audit work at Patterson-UTI’s offices.  As a senior associate, her duties 
included, among other things, working with other PwC staff in planning the audit process, 
reviewing certain audit work papers of subordinate associates, and participating in the testing of 
Patterson-UTI’s accounting controls.   
        
              2.           During the 1999 audit, Jonathan D. Nelson, Patterson-UTI’s CFO at the time, gave 
Schatz a $40,500 personal check dated December 16, 1999.  The check reflected the notation 
“loan” in the memo block.  Schatz did not execute a formal note, but ultimately    paid off the loan in 
April 2005 after completing 59 monthly installments of $850 each, which included annual interest 
of 9%.  Nelson resigned from Patterson-UTI in October 2005.     3
                                                 
2
               The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
 
3
               On November 16, 2005, the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas, Lubbock Division, 
entered orders freezing Nelson’s assets and granting other relief in a Commission lawsuit against him.  The 
Commission alleged that he embezzled more than $69 million from Patterson-UTI and defrauded investors by, among 
other things, falsifying Patterson-UTI’s financial statements and Commission filings over five years.  SEC v. Jonathan 
D. Nelson (Defendant), XIT Land & Energy, Inc., Chisum Travel Center, Ltd., Z8 Properties, Ltd., Three Stars 
Aviation, LLC, and Chisum Coach, Ltd. (Defendants Solely for Purposes of Equitable Relief), Case No. 5-05CV0266-
C.  (N.D. Tex., Lubbock Division, filed November 16, 2005).  On October 10, 2006, Nelson was sentenced to 25 years 
in prison by the same court in a related criminal case brought by the United States Attorney for the Northern District of 
Texas.  Neither case named Schatz or alleged misconduct against her. 
 

                                                   2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

              3.          On May 15, 2000, Schatz signed an independence-certification letter to PwC that 
falsely stated that she had not received any loans from any Patterson-UTI officers during the 1999 
audit work. 
 
              4.           At the time of the events described above, the applicable Commission auditor-
independence rule, Regulation S-X, Section 210.2-01, stated, in pertinent part:          
 
                     b.        The Commission will not recognize any certified public accountant 
               or public accountant as independent who is not in fact independent . . . . 
        
                   c.         In determining whether an accountant may in fact be not 
               independent with respect to a partic ular person, the Commission will give 
               appropriate consideration to all relevant circumstances, including evidence 
               bearing on all relationships between the accountant and that person or any 
               affiliate thereof, and will not confine itself to the relationships existing in 
               connection with the filing of reports with the Commission.    4
 
              5.           GAAS requires auditors to maintain strict independence from their audit clients.  
Rule 101 of the Code of Professional Conduct of the American Institute of Certified Public 
Accountants (“AICPA”), states, in pertinent part, that a “member in public practice shall be 
independent in the performance of professional services.”  Interpretation 101-1 of AICPA Rule 
101 provides, among other things, that independence shall be considered impaired if, during the 
period of the professional engagement, a member “had any loan to or from the client [or] any 
officer or director of the client.” 
 
              6.           Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides, in pertinent part, 
that the Commission may deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before it in any way to any person who is found by the Commission after notice and 
opportunity for hearing in the matter to have engaged in improper professional conduct. 
 
D. FINDINGS  
 
       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Schatz engaged in improper 
professional conduct within the meaning of Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice. 
 

                                                 
4
               The current Regulation S-X, Rule 2-01(c)(1)(ii), explicitly prohibits loans or debtor/creditor relationships 
between auditors and audit clients.  This rule became effective May 7, 2001, however, after the events that form the 
basis of this Order.     

                                                   3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                                 IV. 
                                                    
              In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Schatz’s Offer. 
 
              Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
              A.          Schatz is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant.   
 
              B.          After one year from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider her reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in her practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he/she works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as she practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                                         (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which she is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight       Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which 
she is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any 
criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that 
would indicate that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision.  
    
   (c) Respondent has resolved all di                           sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
   (d) Respondent acknowledges                              her responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
      
       C.          The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that her state CPA license is current and that she 
has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  

                                                   4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission 
will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include 
consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to 
Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice 
before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

                                                                               5 
