---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                               

                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No.  56574 / September 28, 2007 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No.  2734 / September 28, 2007 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-10516 

                            : 
                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
In the Matter of  
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN INDEPENDENT 
Walter Cercavschi, CPA  
                           :  ACCOUNTANT 
                           : 
                           
        

       On June 19, 2001, Walter Cercavschi ("Cercavschi") was suspended from appearing or 
practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public administrative 
proceedings instituted by the Commission against Cercavschi pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3) of the 
Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                  On May 12, 2005, Cercavschi was reinstated to appear and 
practice before the Commission as an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of 
financial statements required to be filed with the Commission.2
                                                               This order is issued in response 
to Cercavschi’s application for reinstatement to practice before the Commission as an 
independent accountant. 

                  For each of the years 1994 through 1996, Cercavschi was a partner at Arthur Andersen 
and a member of the Waste Management, Inc. engagement team.  The Commission’s complaint 
alleged that Cercavschi knew of Waste Management’s quantified misstatements and of 
accounting practices that gave rise to further possible misstatements.  Still, he approved the 
issuance of an unqualified audit report.  Furthermore, the complaint alleged that Cercavschi 
knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that the unqualified audit reports for the years 1994 
through 1996 were materially false and misleading.  Finally, it was alleged that Cercavschi knew 
that these unqualified audit reports would be incorporated into one or more registration 

                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 1408 dated June 19, 2001.  Cercavschi was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after three years upon making certain showings. 
 
2
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2244 dated May 12, 2005. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                     

statements filed with the Commission.  He consented to the entry of an order of permanent 
injunction and a Rule 102(e) suspension order. 
 
       Cercavschi has met all of the conditions set forth in his suspension order and, in his 
capacity as an independent accountant, has stated that he will comply with all requirements of 
the Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, including, but not 
limited to all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and 
quality control standards. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”     3
                                                              This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Cercavschi, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the June 19, 2001 order 
suspending him from practice before the Commission as an accountant, that no information has 
come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, professional conduct 
or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis for adverse action 
against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, and that Cercavschi, 
by undertaking to comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board, including, but not limited to all requirements relating to 
registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards in his practice 
before the Commission as an independent accountant, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  
Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Walter Cercavschi, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
independent accountant. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                               
                                               
                                               
                                              Nancy M. Morris  
                                              Secretary  

                                                 
3
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
 
