---------------------Page 1---------------------

                        UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                      the 
 SECURITIES                      AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 52409 / September 13, 2005 
 
ACCOUNTING & AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2309 / September 13, 2005 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12036 
  
                                         ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
In the Matter of                         DESIST PROCEEDINGS, MAKING 
                                         FINDINGS AND IMPOSING A CEASE-
      NCO GROUP, INC.,                   AND-DESIST ORDER PURSUANT TO 
                                         SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
Respondent.                              EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
 
 
 
 
 
                                       I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate 
that cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against NCO Group, Inc. (“NCO” 
or “Respondent”).   
                                         
                                       II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an 
Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely 
for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of 
the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying 
the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject 
matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this 
Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-
and-Desist Order Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                           III. 
                                        Findings 
  
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds 1
                                                                                that: 
  
                                           A. 
 
Respondent 
  
       NCO is a Pennsylvania corporation headquartered in Horsham, Pennsylvania and is 
the world’s largest provider of debt collection, accounts receivable management services, 
and other outsourced revenue cycle management services to a broad range of clients in the 
United States and overseas.  Most of NCO’s services to date have focused on the recovery 
of traditional delinquent accounts, that is, accounts more than 90 days past due.  NCO 
generates approximately 70 percent of its revenue on a contingency fee basis.  Founded in 
1926, the company went public in 1996.  NCO’s common stock is registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and is quoted on the Nasdaq 
national market system.  NCO’s fiscal year ends December 31. 
                                             
                                           B. 
 
       These proceedings arise from NCO’s use of two accounting practices that 
contravened generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP):  a “one-day-after” policy 
for recording incoming checks from collections on delinquent accounts, and a methodology 
for recording anticipated fee revenue under a long-term services contract.   
        
NCO’s One-day-after Policy 
        
        In each of its periodic filings with the Commission NCO has represented that its 
“contingency fee revenue is recognized upon collection of funds on behalf of clients.”2
                                                                                      
Despite its stated revenue recognition policy, NCO has consistently, since a time prior to 
going public, been applying an undisclosed “one-day-after” policy to its contingency fee 
revenues, by recognizing revenues from collections postmarked prior to the end of the 
reporting period and received in the mail from consumers on the first business day of a 
subsequent reporting period as though they had been received and earned in the prior 
reporting period.   
 
       NCO’s rationale for this policy was twofold: first, that NCO was in “constructive” 
receipt of the payments when they were delivered to NCO’s “agent,” the U.S. Postal 
Service, by being placed in the mail; and second, that any payments received on the first 

                                                 
       1
         The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

       2
         See “Notes to Financial Statements” sections of each of NCO’s Forms 10-K and 
10-Q, under the “Revenue Recognition” heading [emphasis added]. 

                                            2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

day of a new quarter must necessarily have been mailed, and therefore earned by NCO, 
during the prior quarter.   
        
       NCO’s “one-day-after” policy contravenes GAAP because it accounts for 
contingent fees as revenue before the earnings process is complete.  The majority of NCO’s 
business has been collecting payments from debtors who have already defaulted on 
outstanding payment obligations owed to NCO’s clients.  NCO earns as fees a percentage 
of the amount it collects.  Because NCO’s fee is contingent, NCO’s earnings process is not 
complete until NCO in fact receives the collections.  Financial Accounting Standards Board 
Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts No. 5, Recognition and Measurement in 
Financial Statements of Business Enterprises (“CON 5”) (issued in December 1984), 
provides that “[i]f collectibility of assets received for product, services, or other assets is 
doubtful, revenues and gains may be recognized on the basis of cash received.”  Staff 
Accounting Bulletin (SAB) 101 Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements (released in 
December 1999) counsels against and CON 5 precludes accounting for contingent fee 
payments from a subsequent reporting period as revenue in the prior period.  CON 5 
requires that revenue is generally realized or realizable and earned when the seller’s price 
to the buyer is fixed or determinable, services have been rendered, and collectibility is 
reasonably assured.  In cases in which revenue is contingent upon some specified future 
event, SAB 101 provides that such contingent revenue “should be recorded in the period in 
which the contingency is resolved.”  NCO’s position that the company has earned fee 
revenue because it is in constructive receipt of payments once the check is in the mail 
                                                                                   does 
not meet the provisions of CON 5 and SAB 101.   
        
       NCO’s policy of recording in a prior reporting period contingent fee revenue 
derived from a subsequent reporting period also amounts to recognizing a gain 
contingency, which is specifically prohibited under paragraph 17(a) of Statement of 
Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies (issued in 
March 1975).  In particular, the contingencies attending NCO’s collections are not resolved 
until NCO actually receives the payment.  Accordingly, NCO’s “one-day-after” policy 
prematurely recognizes contingent fee revenue one business day before it is actually 
earned. 
        
       NCO has consistently applied the “one-day-after” policy over time.  Therefore, 
NCO’s quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year financial statements reflected trends in revenues 
and earnings with some consistency.3
                                      In order to comply with GAAP, as well as to comply 
with NCO’s own publicly disclosed revenue recognition policy, retroactive correction of 
the policy would entail reversing out the “one-day-after” fee income from the end of a 
period but adding in fee income improperly recorded in the prior period.  In other words, 
the impact of correcting the back end of the period would be offset, in whole or in part, by 
correcting the front end of the period.  As a result, retroactive correction of this practice 

                                                 
       3
         Note, however, that because NCO’s policy included one additional business day, 
periodically, if its quarter ended on a Friday, NCO received the benefit of weekend mail 
deliveries as well as the following Monday’s deliveries.  This occasional increase in 
revenue sporadically increased the amount of revenue recorded in certain quarters. 

                                            3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

would not materially differ from NCO’s previously reported financial statements as NCO 
would report 90 days of revenues and expenses on a quarter-to-quarter basis and 365 days 
of revenues and expenses on an annual basis.  However, by eliminating the “one-day-after” 
policy altogether NCO has reported a material one-time reduction in pre-tax income.  That 
is, by ceasing the “one-day-after” policy, NCO has reported 89 days of contingent fee 
revenues but 90 days of expenses for the quarter in which the correction was made.  For the 
fourth quarter of 2004, the correction resulted in a one-time reduction of pre-tax income of 
7.5 percent.  Additionally, ceasing the one-day-after policy resulted in NCO reporting 
earnings per share of approximately 35 cents, thereby not meeting its earnings per share 
guidance of 38 cents to 42 cents.   
 
NCO’s Long Term Guarantee Contract
 
       On September 27, 1999, NCO entered into a long-term collection contract with a 
large customer (the “Contract”).  The Contract went into effect on January 1, 2000 and 
continued until December 31, 2002.  Pursuant to the Contract, NCO guaranteed that it 
would collect set minimum amounts of money, with the contract minimums based on 
historical benchmarks.  In return for making the required collections, NCO’s customer 
agreed to pay NCO a base fee of 16.9 percent for each dollar NCO collected plus a bonus 
equal to 25 percent of each dollar NCO collected in excess of the minimum thresholds.  For 
each dollar by which NCO fell below the minimums, NCO agreed to pay a penalty of 75 to 
100 percent of the shortfall.  At the time, the Contract required NCO to compare the 
projected minimum threshold amount to the actual collection amount and to collect any 
aggregate net bonus or pay any aggregate net penalty 45 days after the end of the first year 
of the contract and 45 days after each six-month period thereafter.  These interim payments 
were to be applied to the final cash reconciliation of penalty and bonus payments between 
NCO and its customer, which was originally set to occur 150 days after December 31, 
2002.  After the final reconciliation NCO would not be required to pay any additional funds 
to the customer, but through its continued collection efforts, NCO was entitled to recoup 90 
to 100 percent of any penalties paid.  Additionally, where NCO was in a bonus position at 
the final reconciliation, NCO was entitled to incremental bonuses from collections received 
after the date of the final reconciliation. 
 
        NCO recognized the base collection fee it received from current period collections 
as current period revenue.  NCO also recorded the ratable portion of bonuses net of 
penalties in the current period based on a collection curve derived from historical 
experience with this client.  To justify its accounting for the bonus provisions of the 
Contract, NCO analogized to the percentage of completion accounting methodology 
outlined in Statement of Position (“SOP”) 81-1 Accounting for Performance of 
Construction and Certain Production Type Contracts (issued in July 1981).   However, 
SOP 81-1 specifically applies to “construction-type” contracts and does not, by its terms, 
ordinarily apply to “service transactions,” particularly debt collection services.  NCO also 
based its analogy to SOP 81-1 on the long-term nature of the Contract, and took the 
position that the production of  “cash” served as this accounting treatment’s requisite 
“tangible property.”        
 

                                            4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       NCO’s method of accounting for the Contract contravened GAAP.   As described 
above, CON 5 and SAB 101 provide that contingent revenue may be recognized only upon 
elimination of the underlying contingencies.  The base fees and bonuses provided for in the 
Contract represent contingent revenue.  NCO was not entitled to record contingent fees and 
bonuses as income until it had collected sufficient contingent payments to meet pre-
determined thresholds and the collection results were reconciled with the client.  
Collectibility of the bonuses was not reasonably assured until the pre-determined thresholds 
were met and the collection results were reconciled with the client.  In October 2000, just 
after the close of NCO’s third quarter, SEC staff released SAB 101 Frequently Asked 
Question (“FAQ”) No. 28, Fixed or Determinable Fees, which specifically addressed 
service contracts like the Contract.  FAQ 28 directly addressed this type of service contract 
and fee arrangement.  FAQ 28 provides that companies who earn fees based on such 
collection contracts “must wait until collections occur before recognizing revenue.”  
Therefore, once the minimum collection thresholds were met NCO was only allowed to 
record base fees and bonus revenue to the extent that collections occurred.  NCO did not 
make any change in its method of accounting for the Contract when the staff released FAQ 
28. 
 
       Contrary to NCO’s analogy, SOP 81-1 does not apply to service contracts except 
for “services essential to the construction or production of tangible property, such as 
design, engineering, procurement and construction management.”   4
                                                                   In fact, the Notes to 
SOP 81-1 expressly explain that the statement does not apply to service contracts except 
for contracts “essential to the construction or production of tangible property . . . .”   
        
       On February 11, 2003, NCO announced that it would revise its policy concerning 
the timing of revenue recognition under the Contract and would restate its financial 
statements for its 2000 and 2001 fiscal years and for each of its quarters during those years 
and in 2002 to correct the accounting for the bonus and penalty provisions of the Contract.  
NCO further announced that the restatement would employ the correct accounting 
methodology that would defer the recognition of all revenues until all contingencies related 
to that revenue had been eliminated.   
        
       NCO’s method of accounting for the Contract had a material impact on NCO’s 
revenues, net income, and diluted earnings per share.  The restatement reduced NCO’s 
2001 revenue by approximately $17.6 million or 2.5 percent and 2001 diluted earnings per 
share by $0.41 or approximately 41.4 percent; it reduced NCO’s 2000 revenue by 
approximately $18.4 million, or 3.0 percent and 2000 diluted earnings per share by $0.42 
or 49.4 percent.  NCO estimated that the restatement increased its 2002 revenue by 
approximately $2.1 million or 0.3 percent and increased 2002 diluted earnings per share by 
$0.05 to $1.54.   
        

                                                 
       4
         SOP 81-1, paragraph 11, fn. 1 [emphasis added]. 

                                            5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

Respondent’s Conduct 
 
 Respondent        NCO’s “one-day-after” policy contravened GAAP because it 
accounted for contingent fee revenue before the earnings process was complete.  NCO’s 
earnings process was not complete until collections were received by NCO.  Accordingly, 
the policy did not meet CON 5’s requirement that if collectibility of assets received for 
services is doubtful, revenues and gains may be recognized on the basis of cash received.  
SAB 101 counsels and CON 5 requires that contingent fees are earned only upon receipt, 
and the policy also violated paragraph 17(a) of SFAS No. 5 that prohibits the recognition of 
gain contingencies.  
 
       Respondent NCO failed to properly account for the Contract and instead 
improperly analogized to SOP 81-1.  SOP 81-1 was not applicable to this contract since the 
services provided did not involve the production or construction of tangible property, such 
as design, engineering, procurement and construction management.  Moreover, NCO also 
failed to apply the appropriate accounting pronouncements for this type of contract (CON 
5, SAB 101, and FAQ 28) that provide that contingent revenue be recognized as revenue in 
the period in which the underlying contingencies related to the bonuses are resolved. 
 
       Respondent’s independent auditors were aware of, consulted with NCO concerning, 
and did not object to both the “one-day-after” policy and the method of accounting for the 
Contract and issued audit reports containing unqualified opinions on Respondent’s 
consolidated financial statements. 
 
                                           C. 
 
       Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder require 
issuers with securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act to file annual and 
quarterly reports with the Commission.  The obligation to file such reports embodies the 
requirement that they be true and correct. See, e.g., SEC v. Savoy Indus., Inc., 587 F.2d 
1149, 1165 (D.C. Cir. 1978), cert. denied, 440 U.S. 913 (1979).  Section 13(b)(2) of the 
Exchange Act requires issuers to make and keep books, and records, and accounts, which, 
in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the 
assets of the issuer.  Additionally, this provision requires issuers to devise and maintain a 
system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that, 
among other things, transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of 
financial statements in accordance with GAAP or any other criteria applicable to such 
statements.   
 
       As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent NCO committed violations 
of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-20, 
13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder. 

                                            6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                                         IV. 
                                    Undertakings
 
       Respondent NCO has undertaken to maintain its elimination of its former “one-day-
after” policy.  
        
                                          V. 
                                        Order 
                                            
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the 
sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
              Respondent NCO cease and desist from committing or causing any 
violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and13a-13 thereunder.  
 
              IT IS FURTHERED ORDERED that Respondent NCO shall comply with 
the undertakings enumerated in Section IV above. 
 
 By       the Commission. 
 
 
 
       J                                           onathan G. Katz 
       S                                            ecretary 

                                           7 
