---------------------Page 1---------------------

                       UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                  Before the 
                SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 53404 / March 3, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2392 / March 3, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12227 
                                        
                                   
                                   
In the Matter of                   
                                  ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                  ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
ANDREW J. McADAMS, CPA,           PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                  COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                  MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
Respondent.                       REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
 
 
                 
                                        
                                        
                                       I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate 
that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Andrew J. 
McAdams, CPA (“Respondent” or “McAdams”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice.1
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                      II. 
 

                     
1
              Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
                The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper 
professional conduct. 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted 
an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. 
Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on 
behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting 
or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and 
the subject matter of these proceedings, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order 
Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”) as set forth below.   
                                             
                                          III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds2
                                                                                 that:  
 
A. SUMMARY 
 
        Aerosonic Corporation (“Aerosonic” or “the Company”), an airplane parts 
manufacturer located in Clearwater, Florida, recorded fictitious revenue at the direction 
of its former Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and former Chief Financial Officer 
(“CFO”) through a number of accounting schemes, including creating fraudulent 
inventory entries and improper revenue recognition, in violation of Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (“GAAP”).  As audit engagement partner on the Aerosonic audits 
for PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”), McAdams supervised the audit services PwC 
performed for Aerosonic.  PwC issued audit reports containing unqualified opinions on 
Aerosonic’s fiscal year 1999 through 2002 financial statements, signed by McAdams.  In 
supervising those audit services, however, McAdams failed to perform his work in 
accordance with Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (“GAAS”) for the audits of 
Aerosonic's financial statements for its fiscal years ended 1999 through 2002.  With 
regard to some significant audit items in those years, he did not adequately plan and 
supervise the audits, did not obtain sufficient competent evidential matter, did not 
maintain an attitude of professional skepticism, and placed undue reliance upon former 
senior management's representations.  McAdams thereby engaged in improper 
professional conduct in connection with PwC’s audits of Aerosonic’s financial statements 
within the meaning of SEC Rule 102(e).   
 
B. RESPONDENT 
 
 McAdams          , 52, of Palm Harbor, Florida has been a PwC (or Coopers & Lybrand 
LLP, one of PwC's predecessor firms) partner since 1985, and was the managing partner 
of PwC's Tampa and Orlando offices from 2001 until February 2005.  From fiscal year 
1996 to fiscal year 2002, McAdams was the engagement partner for the audits of 

                     
2
              The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
 
                                           2
---------------------Page 3---------------------

Aerosonic’s year-end financial statements by PwC and Coopers & Lybrand LLP.  In 
February 2005, McAdams became a business development partner for PwC.  McAdams 
is a certified public accountant licensed in the State of Florida.   
 
C.         OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES 
 
 1. Aerosonic              is a Delaware corporation headquartered in Clearwater, 
Florida.  Aerosonic is an airplane instruments manufacturer whose common stock is 
registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 (“Exchange Act”).  Aerosonic's fiscal year ends on January 31st (i.e. fiscal year 
2003 begins February 1, 2002 and ends January 31, 2003).    
         
       2. PwC     is an accounting firm, headquartered in New York, New York.   PwC 
audited Aerosonic’s financial statements for the fiscal years ended 1999 through 2002 (“the 
relevant time period”), that were included by Aerosonic in its filings with the Commission 
on Form 10-K.  PwC also performed review procedures on Aerosonic’s quarterly reports 
on Form 10-Q. 
 
D. FACTS 
 
 1.           Aerosonic’s False Financial Statements
 
              Aerosonic’s primary business as an airplane instruments manufacturer made 
inventory one of its most important assets.  From fiscal year 1999 through 2002, 
inventory was Aerosonic’s largest and fastest growing balance sheet item, at its height 
totaling $10.9 million at year-end, and representing between 40% to 50% of total assets.  
Inventory growth became particularly critical to Aerosonic beginning in 1999; 
specifically, inventory levels needed to be sustained at high levels to keep the cash-
strapped company from defaulting on millions of dollars worth of loans secured by the 
Company’s inventory.  Aerosonic’s CEO, through his autocratic management style and 
tight control of the Company’s finances, was determined to ensure that Aerosonic 
recorded inventory values necessary to support its growth and outstanding debt.    
 
       Beginning in 1999, Aerosonic’s CEO and CFO began managing earnings by 
causing Aerosonic to record fictitious revenue, or avoid significant inventory write-offs, 
through a number of revenue recognition and inventory schemes.  These accounting 
manipulations included:  (a) overstating inventory by falsifying inventory records;  
(b) failing to value inventory at lower of cost or market; (c) improperly capitalizing labor 
and overhead costs into inventory; (d) failing to provide adequate reserves for obsolete 
and slow moving inventory; and (e) inflating earnings by recording fictitious and 
premature revenues.  The fraudulent accounting had a material impact on Aerosonic’s 
financial statements for the relevant time period, inflating Aerosonic’s income before 
taxes reported in its Form 10-Q and Form 10-K filings with the Commission from fiscal 
year 1999 through the first three quarters of fiscal year 2003.    
 
                                           3
---------------------Page 4---------------------

              On March 17, 2003, Aerosonic’s new management disclosed that Aerosonic had 
materially misstated financial results for its fiscal years 1999 through 2002, and for its 
first three quarters of 2003.  In October 2003, Aerosonic restated over $8.6 million in 
revenue and inventory-related items for its fiscal years ended 1999 through 2002, and for 
its first three fiscal quarters of 2003. 
 
              McAdams was aware, at least since 1999, that Aerosonic’s CEO dominated the 
Company’s board of directors, management, and financial reporting, and that Aerosonic’s 
inventory carried an inherent risk of material misstatement and was significant to the 
balance sheet.  Since 2000, the PwC audit teams headed by McAdams also had identified 
indications of significant weaknesses in Aerosonic’s financial accounting process, such 
as in one year, “[an] accounting staff that was inadequate in light of the complexity and 
size of the business.”  Yet without sufficient audit inquiry, McAdams caused PwC to 
render an unqualified audit report on the financial statements included in Aerosonic’s 
annual reports on Form 10-K for fiscal years ended 1999 through 2002.   
               
              a)      Aerosonic’s Improper Inventory Accounting
 
              Aerosonic’s material overstatement of its inventory values from fiscal year 1999 
through the first three quarters of 2003 resulted in a cumulative overstatement of 
inventory, and corresponding understatement of expenses, totaling approximately $6.7 
million.  Aerosonic’s reported inventory values and earnings were inflated primarily by 
its CEO and CFO’s falsification of Aerosonic’s inventory records.  In fact, approximately 
$4.2 million of Aerosonic’s $6.7 million inventory overstatement was the result of 
falsified physical inventory records.  In each of those years, Aerosonic’s CEO and CFO 
inflated inventory by manually adjusting Aerosonic’s general ledger inventory values 
after those balances had been finalized through Aerosonic’s year-end physical inventory 
process.   
 
       Aerosonic further inflated its inventory balances by failing to write down or 
reserve sufficiently for slow moving and obsolete inventory.  Under GAAP, Aerosonic’s 
management was required to determine reasonable estimates for its obsolete and slow 
moving inventory, and to record appropriate write-offs and reserves based upon those 
estimates.  Around 1997, Aerosonic’s CEO and CFO took the position that Aerosonic’s 
inventory never became obsolete because all slow moving inventory would eventually 
sell or be re-engineered into salable items.  Although the Company continued to record 
an increasing reserve for obsolete and slow moving inventory, those reserves were 
insufficient.  McAdams expressed concern about Aerosonic’s aged excess inventory to 
Aerosonic’s CEO and CFO and to its Audit Committee as early as January 1999, and 
PwC recommended that the Company immediately perform a comprehensive inventory 
review.  From fiscal year 1999 through the first three quarters of fiscal year 2003, 
however, McAdams knew that Aerosonic had never conducted the recommended 
comprehensive inventory review.    
  

                                           4
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       Under GAAS, McAdams was required to  ensure that the Aerosonic audit teams 
obtained sufficient competent evidential matter and not rely upon uncorroborated 
management representations when it was inappropriate to do so. (AU §§ 333A.02, and 
326.19a).  McAdams, however, failed to ensure that the audit teams obtained sufficient 
competent evidential matter to support Aerosonic’s 1999 through 2002 year-end 
inventory values.  First, McAdams failed to ensure that the audit team obtained sufficient 
additional evidence required to support Aerosonic’s physical inventory balances after 
noting material year-end book to physical inventory differences in fiscal years 2000 
through 2002.  Instead, McAdams accepted former senior management's representations 
that the book to physical inventory discrepancies were a result of the limitations in the 
Company's inventory tracking system and that those differences should be treated as a 
reserve.   McAdams accepted management’s representations without further 
investigating, or requesting that Aerosonic otherwise reconcile, the discrepancies.  
Second, McAdams knew that the Company never performed the comprehensive 
inventory review that PwC recommended to senior management and the Audit 
Committee in 1999.  Yet, McAdams relied too greatly upon Aerosonic's inventory reports 
when auditing slow moving and obsolete inventory, without testing whether those reports 
were reliable.        
 
              b)          Aerosonic Recorded Fictitious and Premature Revenue 
 
              (1)    The Shreiner Transaction 
               
              During Aerosonic’s fiscal years 1999 through 2002, former senior management 
engaged in additional accounting schemes to inflate revenue.  In violation of GAAP, 
Aerosonic improperly recognized revenue on a transaction with the Netherlands-based 
Shreiner Company (“Shreiner”) in fiscal year 1999.  Specifically, Schreiner had 
contracted with Aerosonic to send a payment from Shreiner to a third-party vendor, less a 
five-percent commission paid to Aerosonic.  Rather than recording only the five-percent 
fee, Aerosonic recognized the entire amount as revenue, and the payment through to 
Shreiner as an expense, resulting in a material overstatement of its fiscal year 1999 
revenue.  During Aerosonic’s fiscal year 1999 audit, the PwC audit team caught the 
accounting error.  McAdams then proposed an adjustment to correct the error, which the 
Company recorded.  Because McAdams did not review the journal posting for the 
transaction, and did not otherwise obtain sufficient evidential matter to support the 
adjustment, the audit team did not realize that the adjustment did not properly correct the 
Company’s books as was intended and therefore was itself erroneous.  As a result, 
Aerosonic materially overstated its fiscal year 1999 earnings. 
 
              McAdams became aware of the erroneous Shreiner adjustment during 
Aerosonic’s fiscal year 2000 audit.  Under GAAS, McAdams then had an obligation to 
either ensure that Aerosonic restated its fiscal year 1999 financial statements, or cause 
PwC to issue an audit report containing a qualified opinion. (AU §561.05 and .06).  
Instead, the Company recorded a “correcting” entry for the 1999 transaction in 
Aerosonic’s fiscal year 2000 financial statements.  This caused Aerosonic to materially 
                                           5
---------------------Page 6---------------------

misstate its financial statements for both fiscal year 1999 and fiscal year 2000.  Yet, 
McAdams signed an unqualified report on the fiscal year 2000 financial statements and 
did not withdraw the unqualified report previously issued on the fiscal year 1999 
financial statements. 
 
  (2) Meopta                   
 
              Aerosonic further violated GAAP during its fiscal years 2001 and 2002 by 
improperly recognizing revenue and inflating inventory in connection with a sham 
circular sale.  In the last days of its fiscal year 2001, Aerosonic sold obsolete counters to 
a Czech company, Meopta Optika A.S. (“Meopta”), resulting in an overstatement of 
Aerosonic’s 2001 income before taxes by $397,465, or 53%.  At or about the time of the 
Meopta “sale,” Aerosonic’s CEO arranged for the Company to repurchase the counters at 
an inflated price in fiscal year 2002 from Meopta’s parent company, TCI Group, over a 
six month period in the following fiscal year.  Aerosonic placed the counters back into its 
inventory as they were received, which artificially inflated its fiscal year 2002 inventory 
values.  Because the transaction lacked economic substance, Aerosonic had no basis 
under GAAP for recognizing revenue on the Meopta transaction or increasing its fiscal 
year 2002 inventory values by the counter repurchase price. 
  
              McAdams knew at the time of the 2001 audit that this significant sale had 
occurred in the last days of fiscal year 2001, and should have noted that it represented 
over half of Aerosonic’s income before taxes for the year.  While McAdams requested 
and obtained a written confirmation from the buyer, under the circumstances, he should 
have done more, including, among other things, reviewing the purchase order or shipping 
documents related to the transaction. (AU §316.27).  As a result, when Aerosonic 
repurchased the counters in fiscal year 2002, McAdams and his audit team failed to 
recognize warning signs that would have alerted them to the need to examine whether 
there had been a circular sale.  If McAdams had required that the shipping and 
purchasing documents be reviewed during the 2001 audit, during the 2002 audit he could 
have discovered that the same number of counters that had been sold to Meopta were 
repurchased from TCI, and that TCI's invoice letterhead carried the same address in 
Czechoslovakia as Meopta.  McAdams’s failure to obtain sufficient competent supporting 
evidence for the transaction constituted a departure from GAAS. 
         
       2.    McAdams Did Not Adequately Plan and Perform Aerosonic’s Audits 
 
       For proper audit planning, GAAS requires, among other things: (1) identification 
of areas requiring special attention, or of special concern; (2) consideration of conditions 
that may require extension or modification of audit tests, such as the risk of material error 
or fraud, (3) incorporation of identified risks into both audit planning and audit 
execution, and (4) adequate communication of those risks to the audit team. (AU §§ 
311.01, 311.03, and 311.06, and 312.17).  McAdams’ audit planning failed to comply 
with GAAS because he did not ensure that known risks were properly incorporated into 
PwC’s Aerosonic audit plans.  For example, McAdams failed to incorporate appropriate 
                                            6
---------------------Page 7---------------------

testing for slow moving and obsolete inventory, an area that he knew was at risk for 
material misstatement.  He also failed to ensure that the audit plan adequately addressed 
the audit risks presented by Aerosonic’s accounting environment, such as the CEO’s 
autocratic personality or his domination and control of management and the board of 
directors.  Given Aerosonic’s CEO’s personality and control, and the materiality of 
Aerosonic’s excess inventory, McAdams failed to exercise the appropriate attitude of 
professional skepticism and plan additional auditing procedures necessary to afford a 
reasonable basis for an opinion on the financial statements. (AU § 333.02).   
               
       3.           McAdams Did Not Ensure Adequate Work Paper Documentation  
  
       Complicating the ability of PwC’s audit team to catch Aerosonic’s fraud from 
1999 through 2002 was the lack of audit documentation detail in prior years’ audit work 
papers.  Under GAAS, the work papers must document audit procedures applied, tests 
performed, information obtained, and pertinent conclusions reached in the audit 
engagement. (AU §§ 339.02 - .03).  
        
       For Aerosonic’s fiscal year 1999 through 2002 audits, McAdams permitted the 
engagement team member performing particular audit procedures to determine the level 
of documentation detail.  McAdams directly reviewed a limited number of audit work 
papers to determine whether procedures were completed or sufficiently documented.  In 
fact, documentation of substantive procedures in many of the 1999 through 2002 audit 
workpapers was inadequate.  By failing to require appropriate documentation, 
                                                                             McAdams 
violated GAAS and impeded PwC’s ability to adequately test and determine whether 
Aerosonic’s financial statements and adjustments complied with GAAP. 
        
              4.   McAdams did not Properly Staff and Supervise the 2002 Audit 
 
              GAAS requires that audits be adequately staffed and audit assistants properly 
supervised, and that the auditor with final responsibility (generally the audit partner) 
assign tasks to, and supervise, any assistants. (AU §§ 150.02 and 230.06).  Ordinarily, 
audit areas presenting higher risk require assignment of experienced personnel, or more 
extensive supervision by the audit partner during the engagement. (AU § 312.17). 
               
       McAdams, as Aerosonic’s audit engagement partner, was responsible for ensuring 
that all of the audits were properly staffed and supervised.  When the audit manager for 
Aerosonic’s fiscal year 2002 audit began “transitioning off” that audit shortly after the 
initial planning phase and interim audit work, McAdams was responsible for either 
reassigning his tasks or assuming the tasks himself.  Among the departing manager’s 
tasks that McAdams was required to assign or assume was the more detailed review of all 
audit staff work.  McAdams, however, neither personally performed the departing 
manager's detailed audit review nor assured that other staff performed the review, in 
violation of GAAS. 
        
E.          McADAMS ENGAGED IN IMPROPER PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT 
                                           7
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 
              1.           McAdams Did Not Render Accurate Audit Reports on Behalf of PwC 
 
              The auditor’s role is to express an opinion about whether the audited financial 
statements fairly present in all material respects the required information in conformity 
with GAAP.  As the audit engagement partner, McAdams caused PwC to issue audit 
reports containing unqualified opinions on Aerosonic’s financial statements for fiscal 
years ended 1999 through 2002, inaccurately representing that the financial statements 
were in conformity with GAAP.  This was due to his failure to exercise due professional 
care, as described below.  
    
              2.           McAdams Did Not Exercise Due Professional Care 
   
              GAAS’ Third General Standard provides that "due professional care is to be 
exercised in the performance of the audit and preparation of the audit report." (AU § 
150.02).  Among other things, due professional care requires an auditor to: (1) adequately 
plan and properly perform the audit; (2) properly consider the audit risk that the financial 
statements might be materially misstated; (3) obtain sufficient competent evidence to 
support the assertions in the financial statements by, among other things, corroborating 
management representations where appropriate; and (4) maintain an attitude of 
professional skepticism.  As described above, McAdams failed to fulfill these 
requirements when conducting Aerosonic’s fiscal year 1999 through 2002 audits, thereby 
violating GAAS. 
               
F. FINDINGS 
 
       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that: 
        
             In connection with the audits of Aerosonic’s financial statements for fiscal 
       years ended 1999 through 2002, McAdams engaged in improper professional 
       conduct pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice 
       based upon repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a 
       violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence 
       to practice before the Commission. 

                                            8
---------------------Page 9---------------------

                                            IV. 
                                               
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the 
sanctions agreed to in Respondent McAdams’ Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.         McAdams is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
       Commission as an accountant. 
        
       B.          After two (2) years from the date of this Order, Respondent may 
       request that the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an 
       application (attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or 
       practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                    1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation 
       or review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the 
       Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s 
       work in his practice before the Commission will be reviewed either by the 
       independent audit committee of the public company for which he works or in 
       some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the Commission in 
       this capacity; and/or 
      
                     2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy 
       the Commission that: 
      
                                  (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
       associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board 
       (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such 
       registration continues to be effective; 
 
                                   (b)        Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with 
       which he is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did 
       not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s 
       quality control system that would indicate that the respondent will not receive 
       appropriate supervision; 

                                   (c)         Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the 
       Board, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed 
       by the Board (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                                   (d)        Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
       Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent 
       accountant, to comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, 
                                             9
---------------------Page 10---------------------

         including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, 
         concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
 
         C.          The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to 
         resume appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his 
         state CPA license is current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues 
         with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, if state licensure 
         is dependant on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
         consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may 
         include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any 
         other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional 
         conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
          
 
              By the Commission. 
 
 
       
        Nancy M. Morris 
        Secretary 

                                                      10
