---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  

                                        Before the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 56755 / November 6, 2007 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 2749 / November 6, 2007 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-11211 

                          :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                          :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE
In the Matter of 
                          :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                          :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Warren Martin, CPA 
                          :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                          :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 

       On August 8, 2003, Warren Martin, CPA (“Martin”) was denied the privilege of 
appearing or practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of 
the Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                    Martin consented to the entry of the order without 
admitting or denying the findings therein.  This order is issued in response to Martin’s 
application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant 
responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed with the 
Commission. 

        The Commission found that Martin, in his role as the engagement partner of the audits 
of MicroStrategy, Inc. (“MicroStrategy”), caused PricewaterhouseCoopers to issue audit reports 
containing unqualified opinions filed with the Company’s inaccurate financial statements for the 
fiscal years 1998 and 1999.  Prior to the issuance of the audit reports, Martin did not develop 
sufficient competent evidentiary support for certain revenue recognition issues and failed to 
consider properly language in certain MicroStrategy contracts that conflicted with the 
Company’s recognition of revenue.  He also failed to consider properly concerns raised by his 
own accounting firm that should have alerted him to the audit failures. 

       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Martin 

1 
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 1835 dated August 8, 2003.  Martin was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after two years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Martin is not, at this time, seeking to appear 
or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume 
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be 
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Martin’s 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 

       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”   2
                                                            This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 

       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Martin, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the August 8, 2003 order suspending 
him from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no information 
has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, professional 
conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis for adverse 
action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, and that 
Martin, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of any 
company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in his 
practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Warren Martin, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 

       By the Commission. 

                                             Nancy M. Morris 
                                             Secretary 

2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 

“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 

                                                2

