---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                              STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                       the 

                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  57210 / January 28, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2775 / January 28, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12938 

                                                     ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                     ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
                                                    PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
In the Matter of                                    COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                    PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, 
      MICHAEL LOWTHER, CPA,                         AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL 
                                                    SANCTIONS 
Respondent. 

                                           I.


      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Michael Lowther, CPA  
(“Lowther” or “Respondent”), pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1 

                                           II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Lowther has submitted an Offer of 
Settlement (“Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of 
these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are 

1 
      Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides that: 

      The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before 
it in any way to any person who is found by the Commission  . . . to have engaged in . . . improper professional 
conduct. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

admitted, Lowther consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings 
Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing 
Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   

                                               III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  2
                                                                                  that: 

A.     SUMMARY 

       Enron Corp.’s (“Enron”) senior executives engaged a wide-ranging scheme to defraud the 
investing public by materially overstating the company’s earnings and cash flows, and concealing 
debt in periodic reports filed with the Commission.3
                                                     The fraudulent scheme was carried out 
through a variety of complex structured transactions, related party transactions, misleading 
disclosures, and a widespread abuse of generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).  

       Arthur Andersen LLP (“Andersen”) served as Enron’s auditor, and for each year during the 
relevant time period, issued an auditor’s report falsely stating that Enron’s financial statements 
were presented fairly, in all material respects, in conformity with GAAP, and that Andersen had 
conducted its audit of those financial statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards (“GAAS”).  Lowther served as the concurring review partner for the Enron audits.  As 
specified in this Order, Lowther engaged in improper professional conduct by concurring with the 
audit engagement team’s faulty conclusions regarding Enron’s accounting for certain transactions 
and authorizing the issuance by Andersen of unqualified audit reports that were materially false 
and misleading. 

B.     RESPONDENT 

       Michael Lowther, 51, served as the partner in charge of Andersen’s energy audit division 
in Houston, Texas, and also served as the concurring review partner for the Enron audits during the 
relevant time period.  As a concurring review partner, Lowther was required to provide additional 
assurance that Enron’s financial statements were in conformity with GAAP and that Andersen’s 
report thereon was in accordance with GAAS.  Lowther is currently and was a CPA licensed in the 
state of Texas at all relevant times. 

2 
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
3 
       In connection with this fraudulent scheme, several former Enron executives either pleaded guilty or were 
convicted of felonies, including Enron’s former Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief 
Accounting Officer. 
                                                2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

C.     OTHER PARTIES 

       Enron Corp. was an Oregon corporation with its principal place of business in Houston, 
Texas.  During the relevant time period, Enron’s common stock was registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and traded on the New York Stock 
Exchange.  Among other operations, Enron was the nation’s largest natural gas and electric 
marketer, with reported annual revenue of more than $100 billion.  In 2000, Enron rose to number 
seven on the Fortune 500 list of public companies.  By December 2, 2001, when it filed for 
bankruptcy, Enron’s stock price had dropped over the course of a year from more than $80 per 
share to less than $1. 

       Arthur Andersen LLP once was one of the so-called “Big Five” accounting firms in the 
United States and had its headquarters in Chicago, Illinois.  Andersen personnel performed work 
for Enron during the relevant time period in several cities, including Chicago, Houston and 
London. 4 

D.     FACTS 

       1.      Andersen Identified Enron as a Maximum Risk Client 

       Lowther was aware that the risk of fraudulent financial reporting at Enron was high.  In 
accordance with applicable professional standards, Andersen assessed the risk of fraud at Enron 
(AU §316, Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit), and Lowther should have 
known that Enron possessed many of the risk factors that should be considered in making that 
assessment. For example, Fraud Risk Assessment questionnaires prepared by the audit 
engagement team documented that Enron placed an “undue emphasis on meeting earnings targets;” 
used “highly aggressive accounting;” utilized “unusual” year-end transactions that posed difficult 
“substance over form” questions; possessed a “philosophy of significantly managing (maximizing 
or minimizing) earnings;” and had a “high dependence on debt, difficulty in meeting debt 
payments or vulnerability to interest rate changes.”  In addition, an internal Andersen document 
prepared each year by the engagement team consistently classified the Enron engagement as 
involving “maximum risk” and noted that Enron’s use of complex “form over substance” and 
“related party” transactions created an “extreme” or “very significant” financial reporting risk.  
This document, called a “SMART,” was prepared each year to assist with the annual decision 
whether to retain Enron as an audit client.  Lowther reviewed the SMART documents and also 
attended annual client retention meetings during which the risks identified above were discussed. 

4 
       David B. Duncan served as the global engagement partner for Andersen’s audits of Enron from 1997 until 
December 2001.  Contemporaneously with the filing of this Order, the Commission filed a settled civil injunctive 
action in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas, Houston Division, against Duncan, in which 
Duncan consented to be permanently enjoined from violating Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.  Upon entry of the injunction by the Court, Duncan has also offered to settle an 
administrative proceeding by the Commission in which he agrees to be permanently barred from appearing or 
practicing before the Commission as an accountant. 
                                                3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

       2.     Enron’s Prepay Transactions 

       Enron improperly reported structured financing proceeds as operating cash flows by means 
of “prepay” transactions with various financial institutions.  Enron used prepay transactions to 
improperly report the cash it received from prepay transactions as cash flow from operating 
activities, rather than cash flow from financing activities. This allowed Enron to hide the true 
extent of its borrowing from investors and the national credit rating agencies because sums 
borrowed in prepay transactions appeared as “price risk management liabilities” rather than 
additional debt on Enron’s balance sheet. 

       Enron’s prepay transactions were in substance financings because Enron used a three party 
structure involving a bank and a bank sponsored SPE that were not independent of each other to 
remove all commodity price risk from the transaction.  The circular nature of delivery and 
payments with respect to the commodities and the lack of independence between the bank 
counterparties had the effect of eliminating any material risk or any potential gain with respect to 
changes in the price of the underlying commodity.  In effect, Enron’s prepay transactions involved 
an investment bank making a large payment to Enron in exchange for Enron’s promise to pay the 
bank sponsored entity an amount in excess of what Enron received in the initial prepayment.   

       Amounts borrowed by Enron using the prepay structure were finely tuned each quarter for 
maximum reporting benefit.  Enron simply determined the amount of operating cash flows it 
wanted to report, projected any “shortfall” as the end of a reporting period approached, and then 
used prepay transactions to fill the gap.  From 1997 through September 30, 2001, Enron, using 
prepay transactions, received over $5 billion in funds in this manner.  

       Enron never separately disclosed in its public filings that it was entering into prepay 
transactions. Such disclosure was necessary because of the large dollar amounts and volume of 
prepay transactions entered into by Enron and the significant future obligated cash commitments 
associated with the transactions.  Rather, the prepay transactions were aggregated into Enron’s 
“price risk management liabilities.”  Enron provided a generic and inadequate description of its 
price risk management activities in the notes to the financial statements and in the management’s 
discussion and analysis section of its annual reports on Form 10-K and its quarterly reports on 
Form 10-Q.       

       GAAS provides that “the presentation of financial statements in conformity with [GAAP] 
includes adequate disclosure of material matters.  These matters relate to the form, arrangement, 
and content of the financial statements and their appended notes . . .”  (AU §431, Adequacy of 
Disclosure in Financial Statements).  GAAS also states that “[GAAP] recognize[s] the importance 
of reporting transactions and events in accordance with their substance” and that the “auditor 
should consider whether the substance of the transactions or events differs materially from their 
form.”  (AU §411, The Meaning of Present Fairly in Conformity With Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles in the Independent Auditor’s Report).  Enron’s financial statement 
presentation and disclosure of the prepay transactions was not in conformity with GAAP because it 
mischaracterized the nature of the cash flows associated with the transactions, obscured the true 

                                               4

---------------------Page 5---------------------

economic substance of these financing transactions, and did not address the material impact they 
had on Enron’s financial statements. 

       Enron’s disclosures regarding prepay transactions were materially inadequate.  In 
conjunction with both the 1999 and 2000 audits, the engagement team advised Enron of the need 
for more robust disclosure of the prepay transactions.  David Duncan, the engagement partner for 
the audits, even proposed to Enron’s senior management specific language used by another 
Andersen audit client that would have disclosed the fact that Enron used “prepaid commodity 
contracts” and also the dollar amount of liabilities associated with the prepay transactions.  
Andersen’s recommendations to enhance the disclosure for prepay transactions were rejected by 
Enron’s management.  Lowther consulted with Duncan and others regarding Enron’s prepay 
transaction disclosures and they determined, improperly, that Enron’s disclosures complied with 
GAAP without the proposed enhancements.   

       3.     Enron’s Project Nahanni 

       After completing an $800 million prepay transaction in November 1999, Enron still was 
approximately $500 million short of the funds flow target Enron had told the credit rating agencies 
it intended to achieve for the year.  To make up for this shortfall, Enron entered into a transaction 
code-named Project Nahanni that, in its entirety, had no material economic benefit to Enron.  This 
transaction was in substance a year-end, one month, $500 million financing that Enron used to 
manipulate its financial statements by:  (i) inflating reported cash flow from operating activities; 
(ii) under-reporting cash flow from financing activities; and (iii) under-reporting debt -- in each 
instance by $500 million. 

       Project Nahanni was structured as a minority interest transaction in which Citigroup, 
through an SPE called Nahanni, provided capital in return for a minority interest in a consolidated 
subsidiary of Enron called Marengo.  Marengo was a partnership between Enron and Nahanni 
created specifically to effectuate the subject transaction.  As a result, cash flow associated with the 
activities of Marengo appeared as cash flow from operating activities on Enron’s financial 
statements, and Nahanni’s financial contribution to Marengo appeared as a minority interest on 
Enron’s balance sheet, rather than debt.  

       On or about December 17, 1999, Citigroup funded Nahanni with $485 million in debt and 
$15 million in outside equity.  Nahanni immediately purchased $500 million of short-term U.S. 
Treasury bills (“T-bills”) and then contributed the T-bills to acquire a minority interest in Marengo.  
On or about December 29, 1999, two days before Enron’s annual reporting period ended, Enron 
directed Marengo to sell the $500 million in T-bills.  The sale of the T-bills appeared as cash flow 
from operating activities on Enron’s consolidated statement of cash flow.  Enron then borrowed 
from Marengo the cash proceeds from the sale of the T-bills to pay down its reported debt by $500 
million just before year-end 1999.   Since Enron treated the transaction with Marengo as an inter-
company loan, it did not increase Enron’s reported debt.  By replacing $500 million of debt with a 
minority interest in a consolidated subsidiary, Enron improved its reported debt-to-equity ratio by 
16 percent at year-end, December 31, 1999.  In addition, the $500 million in operating cash flow 
from Project Nahanni accounted for 41 percent of Enron’s total cash flow reported for the year. 

                                               5

---------------------Page 6---------------------

       On or about January 14, 2000, Enron repaid the $500 million loan from Marengo with 
interest. Marengo then paid Nahanni approximately $487.1 million, representing $485 million in 
principal, plus $2.1 million in interest.  While the initiation of the transaction was reported as an 
increase in cash flow from operating activities, its wind-down just weeks later was reported 
differently by Enron, as a reduction in cash flow from investing activities.  

       In order for the Nahanni transaction to achieve Enron’s goal of increasing its cash flow 
from operating activities, it was necessary for Enron to take the position that holding Treasury 
securities was part of its “merchant activities,” so that it could then claim that the sale of those 
securities generated cash flow from operating activities.  Accordingly, Enron changed the 
merchant activities footnote in its financial statements to include government securities in the 
definition of merchant investments.  Such a change was materially misleading because T-bill 
investing was not a part of Enron’s merchant business, and because, contrary to the definition of 
merchant investment, Enron never had any intent to hold the securities for the purpose of making a 
profit. 

       Enron’s overall disclosure of the Nahanni transaction in its Form 10-K for year 2000 was 
materially misleading because Enron did not disclose:  (i) that the partnership was created in 
December to fund a transaction that lasted just long enough to achieve a year-end financial 
reporting objective; and (ii) that the Nahanni transaction was a one-time boost to cash flow, not a 
continuous, sustainable cash flow from operations.  Thus, Enron’s disclosure created the false 
impression that the transaction related to Enron’s regular-course-of-business investments in energy 
and technology companies.   

       Lowther, in his concurring partner role, reviewed documentation for the Nahanni 
transaction and missed various red flags indicating that Project Nahanni was purely a “window 
dressing” transaction that had no material economic benefit to Enron.  Consequently, in his review 
of the Nahanni transaction, Lowther failed to exercise due professional care and skepticism (AU 
§230, Due Professional Care in the Performance of Work) and failed to ensure Enron’s balance 
sheet and cash flow presentation were not materially misleading (AU §431, Adequacy of 
Disclosure in Financial Statements and AU §411, The Meaning of Present Fairly in Conformity 
With Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the Independent Auditor’s Report). 

       4. Enr      on’s Raptor Transactions 

       Beginning in the spring of 2000, Enron and LJM2, a partnership formed and managed by 
Enron’s then-Chief Financial Officer Andrew Fastow, engaged in a series of complex financial 
transactions with four SPE structures called Raptor I, Raptor II, Raptor III and Raptor IV 
(collectively “Raptors”).  Enron’s senior management used the Raptors, in part, to manipulate 
Enron’s financial statements.   

       By 1999, a large percentage of Enron’s quarterly earnings were attributed to unrealized 
gains in its merchant energy portfolio and in various technology investments.  Many of these assets 
were extremely volatile. The Raptors were used by Enron to “hedge” the value of those 

                                               6

---------------------Page 7---------------------

investments with a purported independent third party SPE, so that Enron could offset declines in 
the value of these assets with the Raptor hedges.  Enron capitalized Raptors I, II and IV with Enron 
stock.  Raptor III was capitalized with warrants of an Enron spin-off company. Enron received an 
economic interest in the Raptors and $1.2 billion in notes receivable from the Raptors in return for 
the Enron shares and warrants.  Because of the related party nature and complexity of the 
transaction, the engagement team reviewed the features of the Raptors structures with Lowther and 
Andersen’s regional practice director before Enron entered into the transactions and consulted with 
them both on various Raptors related issues throughout 2000 and 2001. 

       LJM2 contributed $30 million of equity to each Raptor.  However, through undisclosed 
side agreements between Fastow and others, the structures were designed so that amounts equal to 
LJM2’s equity was returned to LJM2 for each Raptor prior to any hedges being put in place.  As a 
result of the side agreements and related effective return of capital, LJM2 had no equity at risk and 
Enron should have consolidated the Raptors into its financial statements.  LJM2's equity was 
effectively returned to it through three separate $41 million put options in Enron stock in Raptors I, 
II and IV, and through a distribution in Raptor III.  These put options provided a return equal to 
LJM2's initial $30 million capital contribution in each Raptor, along with an agreed upon rate of 
return on such capital, before the Raptor SPEs entered into the hedging transactions.  Effectively, 
Enron was entering into hedging contracts with entities backed solely with its own stock.  

       Since the Enron engagement was classified as maximum risk, and related party transactions 
created an “extreme” or “very significant” financial reporting risk, the existence of the put options 
in the Raptor structures should have triggered increased professional skepticism.  The puts were 
priced at a premium that matched exactly LJM2's targeted return, and were included as part of 
aggressive and complex related party transactions that had a material effect on Enron’s reported 
earnings. Additionally, LJM2 received its $41 million payout in each Raptor shortly after signing 
the contracts - resulting in a short-term return on investment in excess of 130% in each case.  
Moreover, the payout occurred in each Raptor after Enron settled the put option early and before 
any hedges were put in place. The timing of settlement by Enron of these out-of-the-money put 
options should have been an additional red flag that prompted Lowther and others to increase their 
professional skepticism and question why Enron would repeatedly make such economically 
irrational payments.  These payments actually eliminated the supposed protection from a drop in its 
stock price that the company purportedly had purchased at a premium.   Despite the need for 
greater scrutiny, Lowther did not exercise due professional care or professional skepticism with 
regard to this aspect of the Raptor transactions (AU §230, Due Professional Care in the 
Performance of Work).  In addition, Lowther and members of the engagement team allowed Enron 
to avoid recording significant Raptor-related impairment charges at year-end 2000 and for the first 
quarter of 2001 by improperly allowing Enron to offset losses in Raptors I and III against the 
excess credit capacity in Raptors II and IV.    

       Enron’s footnote disclosure in its Form 10-K for year 2000 contains a paragraph describing 
some aspects of the Raptor transactions.  However, the disclosure was not in accordance with 
GAAP (FAS 57, Related Party Disclosures) since it did not include an adequate description of the 
Raptor transactions and information necessary to understand the effects these transactions had on 
Enron’s financial statements.  Furthermore, in the footnote, Enron asserted, without any reasonable 

                                                7

---------------------Page 8---------------------

basis or substantiation, that “the terms of the transactions with the Related Party were reasonable 
compared to those which could have been negotiated with unrelated third parties.”  FAS 57 states 
that financial statement representations “shall not imply that the related party transactions were 
consummated on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s-length transactions unless such 
representations can be substantiated.”  Lowther reviewed Enron’s related party disclosure and 
should have known that the disclosure did not comply with GAAP, that the terms of the Raptor 
transactions were not equivalent to an arm’s-length transaction, and that the disclosure was 
materially misleading. 

       5.     Violations 

       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides, in part, that the 
Commission may censure or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before the Commission in any way to any person who is found by the Commission to 
have engaged in improper professional conduct.  Rule 102(e)(1)(iv) defines improper professional 
conduct with respect to persons licensed to practice as accountants. 

       As applicable here, improper professional conduct means a violation of applicable 
standards that resulted from “repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a 
violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice before 
the Commission.”  (Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2)).  As a result of the conduct described above, 
Lowther repeatedly acted unreasonably by concurring with the Enron audit engagement team’s 
faulty conclusions regarding Enron’s accounting for certain transactions and allowing the issuance 
by Andersen of unqualified audit reports that were materially false and misleading.   

       6.     Findings 

       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Lowther engaged in improper 
professional conduct pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     Lowther is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission 
as an accountant. 

       B.     After two years from the date of this order, Lowther may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

                                               8

---------------------Page 9---------------------

              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 

              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 

                      (a)    Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision;

               (c)           Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      (d)    Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 

       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

 By       the Commission. 

       N                                             ancy M. Morris
       S                                             ecretary 

                                               9

