---------------------Page 1---------------------

                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
 before                                            the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  56079 / July 16, 2007 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2637 / July 16, 2007 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12691
                                              
      :  
 :                                                   
 :                                                    
       In the Matter of                      :             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                   :             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
             Kurt D. Whitesel, CPA,                       : 102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                   :             PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
            Respondent.                  :     IMPO        SING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                          :      
                                          :      
____________________________________ :              
                                                     
 
                                                I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Kurt D. 
Whitesel (“Respondent” or “Whitesel”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules 
of Practice.1
               
 
 
 
                                                  
                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.C. below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
       A.          Whitesel, age 45 is and has been a certified public accountant holding an inactive 
license to practice in the State of Ohio.  Whitesel served as vice-president, controller and treasurer 
of NorthWestern Corporation (“NorthWestern”) from approximately August 2001 until August 
2003.     
        
       B.          NorthWestern was, at all relevant times, a Delaware corporation with its principal 
place of business in Sioux Falls, South Dakota.  NorthWestern operates a regulated utility business 
in South Dakota, Nebraska and Montana.  During the period of conduct described herein, 
NorthWestern consolidated the financial results of two significant non-utility entities, Expanets, 
Inc. (“Expanets”) and Blue Dot Services, Inc. (“Blue Dot”).  At all relevant times, NorthWestern’s 
common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and traded on the New York Stock Exchange. 
        
       C.          On July 9, 2007 a final judgment was entered against Respondent, permanently 
enjoining him from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, and Sections 
10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder, and 
aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act 
and Rules 12b-20, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder, in the civil action entitled Securities and 
Exchange Commission v. Kurt D. Whitesel, Civil Action Number 07-4059 in the United States 
District Court for the District of South Dakota.   
        
       D. The Commission’s        Complaint alleged, among other things, that during 2002, 
Respondent misled investors about the operating results and financial condition of NorthWestern 
and its operating segments.  First, the Complaint alleged that Respondent failed to disclose serious 
problems with the functionality of Expanets’ new computer system, which materially impacted 
Expanets’ billing and collection functions.  The Commission’s Complaint further alleged that 
Respondent knew or was reckless in not knowing that Expanets’ improperly accounted for 
accounts receivable and adjustments to customers’ bills, causing overstatements of 
NorthWestern’s reported income from continuing operations of 90% and 109% in the second and 

                                               2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

third quarters of 2002, respectively.  Second, the Commission’s Complaint alleged that 
Respondent misled investors as to the nature of NorthWestern’s and Expanets’ reported income 
by failing to disclose the magnitude of Expanets’ reserve reductions or its receipt of unusual non-
compete payments.  Third, the Commission’s Complaint alleged that Respondent failed to 
disclose facts relating to other issues critical to NorthWestern’s liquidity, including 
NorthWestern’s transfer of large amounts of cash in continued support of Expanets and Blue Dot, 
and NorthWestern’s inability to collect $97 million it had publicly anticipated from the sale of 
certain utility assets.  The Complaint further alleged that Respondent withheld material facts from 
NorthWestern’s outside auditor regarding Expanets’ improper accounting.  Finally, the 
Commission’s Complaint alleged that Respondent’s false and misleading statements facilitated 
more than $800 million in securities offerings by NorthWestern in September and October 2002, 
including an $87.5 million equity offering that raised badly needed operating capital for the 
company. 
        
                                                   IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
              A.          Respondent is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
              B.          After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                                         (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight     Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Respondent, or the registered                          public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 

                                                 3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision. 
 
                               (c)         Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, 
and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other 
than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
   (d) Respondent acknowledges                                    his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
 
      
        C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 
 

                                                       4 
