---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED                                 STATES OF AMERICA 
 before                                           the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  56705 / October 25, 2007 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2747 / October 25, 2007 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12880 
                                              
      :  
 :                                                   
 :                                                   
In the Matter of                             :             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                :             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
FRED GOLD, CPA                                  :            102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                    :             PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                : IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
Respondent.                                  :           
                                          :      
____________________________________ :             
                                                     
 
                                               I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Fred 
Gold, CPA (“Gold” or “Respondent”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1
            
 
 

                                                 
1
  Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
                     1.           Gold, age 61, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to 
practice in the State of New York.  He was a partner at Arthur Andersen LLP (“Andersen”) and was 
the Andersen engagement partner responsible for the fiscal 2000 audit of American Tissue, Inc. 
(“ATI”).  He signed the auditor’s report contained in American Tissue’s 2000 annual report in its 
Form 10-K, which was filed with the Commission on December 29, 2000. 
        
                     2.           ATI was a manufacturer of tissue and paper products with paper mills and 
converting facilities located throughout the United States and Mexico.  It became a reporting 
company in February 2000, after conducting an offering of secured notes to institutional investors.  
ATI never sold equity securities to the public, but a limited secondary market for its secured notes 
developed. 
 
                     3.           On  October 16, 2007, a final judgment was entered against Gold, 
permanently enjoining him, by consent, from future violations of Section 10(b) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and from aiding and abetting 
violations of Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rules 12b-20 and 15d-1, in the 
civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Fred Gold, et al., Civil Action 
Number 05-CV-4713 (JS), in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York.  
Gold was also ordered to pay civil money penalties of $100,000. 
 
               4.           The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that ATI 
materially overstated its assets, shareholders’ equity, revenue, and net income in periodic reports 
filed with the Commission during 2000 and 2001 by capitalizing previously recorded expenses as 
inventory and overvaluing finished goods inventory in amounts well in excess of the selling price.  
As a result, ATI’s $24.5 million reported net income for its fiscal year ended September 30, 2000 
was overstated by at least $28.1 million and its $15.5 million reported net income for the nine 
months ended June 30, 2001 was overstated by at least $21.8 million.  Andersen was ATI’s 
auditor during the relevant period.  Andersen issued an unqualified audit report on ATI’s financial 
statements for its fiscal year ended September 30, 2000 though its audit was not conducted in 

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and ATI’s financial statements were not 
fairly presented in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.  Gold, the audit 
engagement partner on ATI’s 2000 audit, was responsible for the audit failure. 
                 
                5.           The Commission’s complaint alleged further that subsequent to the 
completion of the audit, Gold directed an audit manager and a senior accountant to alter audit 
workpapers in preparation for a peer review conducted by Deloitte & Touche.  On September 3, 
2001, Gold instructed them to arrange for the immediate, unscheduled destruction and shredding 
of all Andersen documents and emails that were not part of the “official” ATI work paper files.  In 
response, the senior accountant gave two instructions to members of Andersen’s ATI audit staff 
on September 3, 2001.  Initially, the audit staff was instructed to save everything from the hard 
drives on their laptop computers to a disk and send the disk to the senior manager’s house.  
Shortly thereafter, the staff was instructed to delete everything related to ATI from the hard drives 
on their laptop computers.  On or about September 4, 2001, at Gold’s direction, the senior 
accountant instructed Andersen’s ATI audit staff to gather all ATI related documents for 
shredding, other than the “official” work paper file.  Thereafter, at the request of Andersen, an 
outside shredding company made an unscheduled visit to pick up and shred ATI audit documents 
and e-mails that were not part of the “official” ATI work paper files.  
 
                                                   IV. 
                                                      
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
        Gold is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

                                                     3 
