---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  

                                         Before the 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 59058 / December 4, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 2906 / December 4, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-11150 

                           : 
                           : 
In the Matter of             ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           : 
                             REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
                           : 
Kenneth Wilchfort, CPA       BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           : 
                           : 

       On June 4, 2003, Kenneth Wilchfort (“Wilchfort”) was denied the privilege of appearing 
or practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public administrative 
proceedings instituted by the Commission against Wilchfort pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                 Wilchfort consented to the entry of the June 4, 2003 order 
without admitting or denying the findings therein.  This order is issued in response to Wilchfort’s 
application for reinstatement to practice before the Commission as an accountant. 

       On April 30, 2003, a final judgment was entered by consent against Wilchfort, 
permanently enjoining him from aiding and abetting violations of Section 13(a) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder.  The Commission’s 
complaint alleged that Wilchfort, as the audit engagement partner and Senior Advisory Partner 
for Ernst & Young LLP’s audits of certain financial statements filed by CUC International Inc. 
(“CUC”) and Cendant Corporation (“Cendant”), improperly failed to detect that CUC and 
Cendant’s financial statements were not presented in conformity with generally accepted 
accounting principles.  The Commission further alleged that Wilchfort had a duty to withhold his 
firm’s audit report containing an unqualified opinion and take appropriate steps to prevent these 
financial statements from being filed with the Commission.  By failing to do so, Wilchfort aided 
and abetted CUC’s and Cendant’s violations of the reporting provisions of the federal securities 
laws. 

1 
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 1795 dated June 4, 2003.  Wilchfort was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after four years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

       Wilchfort has met all of the conditions set forth in the original order and, in his capacity 
as an independent accountant, has stated that he will comply with all requirements of the 
Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, including, but not limited to 
all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
control standards.  In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the 
preparation or review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the 
Commission, Wilchfort attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the 
independent audit committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner 
acceptable to the Commission, while practicing before the Commission in this capacity.   

       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                            This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 

        On the basis of the information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed 
to by Wilchfort, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the June 4, 2003 order denying 
him the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 
and that Wilchfort, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit 
committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, in his practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial 
statements required to be filed with the Commission, and that Wilchfort, by undertaking to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight 
Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, 
concurring partner reviews and quality control standards, in his practice before the Commission 
as an independent accountant has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is 
accordingly, 

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Kenneth Wilchfort, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant. 

       By the Commission. 

                                                            Florence E. Harmon  
                                                            Acting Secretary 

2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 

“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
