---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                              
 
                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                       the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  54940 / December 14, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2524 / December 14, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12506 
 
                                              
In the Matter of                            ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC  
                                            ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS AND 
       Mark B. Leffers, CPA                 IMPOSING TEMPORARY SUSPENSION 
                                            PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e)(3) OF THE 
             Respondent.                    COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE 
                                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
 
                                            I.  
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public admi nistrative proceedings be, and here by are, instituted pursuant to 
Rule 102(e)(3)1
               of the Commission’s Rules of Practice against Mark B. Leffers (“Respondent” or  
“Leffers”). 
 
 

                                                 
1 
      Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
      The Commission, with due regard to the public  interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . temporarily suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant 
. . . who has been by name . . . permanently en joined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by 
reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding 
and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and 
regulations thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               II. 
 
       The Commission finds that: 
        
       A. RESPONDENT            
 
               1.     Leffers, age 44, is and has been a certified public accountant (“CPA”) 
licensed to practice in the State of Maryland.  From early 1999 through Fall 2000, Leffers served as 
the chief financial officer (“CFO”) to Busybox.com, Inc. (“Busybox”).  Acting in his capacity as  
Busybox CFO, Leffers signed and caused to be filed with the Commission the registration statement  
for the initial public offering (“IPO”) of the securities of Busybox that took place in June 2000 (File 
Number 333-80315).  Leffers also assisted with the preparation of the Busybox IPO registration  
statement and participated in the preparation of Busybox’s periodic filings with the Commission.  
Leffers has therefore practiced before the Commission within the meaning of Rule 102(f) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice [17 CFR § 201.102(f)]. 
  
       B.      CIVIL INJUNCTION      
   
               1.     On October 24, 200 6, the U.S. District  Court for the Southern District of   
New York entered a final judgme  nt against Leffers, permanently  enjoining him from future 
violations, direct or indirect, of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 10(b) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule          10b-5 thereunder.  Securities and Exchange 
Commission v. Patrick A. Grotto, et al., Civil Action Number 05 Civ. 5880 (GEL).   
        
               2. The Commission’s compla        int filed in SEC v. Grotto  alleges, among other  
things, the following facts.  Leffers and others engaged in fraud in connection with the June 2000 
IPO of Busybox securities.  Barron Chase Securities Inc. (“Barron Chase”), the lead underwriter   
for the Busybox IPO, agreed to      underwrite a firm commitme  nt offering that would raise    
approximately $12.8 million for Busybox.  After      he learned that Barron Chase was having 
difficulty selling the IPO securities to bona fide  investors, Leffers agreed to participate in a 
fraudulent scheme to complete the offering.    Specifically, Leffers and several other Busybox 
officers and directors (“insiders”) agreed secretly to “purchase” IPO se curities using undisclosed 
payments styled as “bonuses,” and Busybox’s outside securities counsel received an inflated and 
undisclosed legal fee paid in IPO securities.  Barron Chase secretly financed these transactions and, 
during the IPO closing, Leffers and others caused Busybox to repay Barron Chase out of the        
proceeds of the offering.  As a re sult of these purchases, Leffers and other insiders at Busybox 
along with its outside securities counsel acquired almost 20% of the securities being offered in the 
IPO and reduced the proceeds available to Busybox by over $2.1 million.  Leffers knew that the 
IPO registration statement and prospectus did not   disclose the insiders’ stock purchases, the    
inflated legal fee paid to outside  counsel, Barron Chase’s financi ng of these transactions or the  
repayment to Barron Chase using IPO proceeds.  

                                                2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                       III. 
         
        Based upon the foregoing, the Commission finds that a court of competent jurisdiction has  
permanently enjoined Leffers,  a CPA, from violating the Fede            ral securities laws within the 
meaning of Rule  102(e)(3)(i)(A) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  In view of these findings, 
the Commission deems it appropriate and in the            public interest that Le ffers be temporarily 
suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission. 
   
        IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that  Leffers be, and hereby is, temporarily suspended from 
appearing or practicing before the Commission.  This Order shall be effective upon service on the  
Respondent. 
 
        IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Leffers may within thirty days after service of this Order 
file a petition with the Commission to lift the  temporary suspension.  If the Commission within 
thirty days after service of the Order receives no petition, the suspension shall become  permanent 
pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(ii). 
  
        If a petition is received within thirty days after service of this Order, the Commission shall, 
within thirty days after the filing of the petition,  either lift the temporary suspension, or set the 
matter down for hearing at  a time and place to be designated  by the Commission, or both.  If a 
hearing is ordered, following the hearing, the Co mmission may lift the suspension, censure the   
petitioner, or disqualify the petitioner from appe aring or practicing before the Commission for a 
period of time, or  permanently, pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(iii). 
 
        This Order shall be served upon Leffers personally or by certified mail at his last known   
address. 
         
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy                                                       M. Morris
       Secretary                                                    
 
  
 

                                                    3
  
