---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                      the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  55434 / March 9, 2007 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2575 / March 9, 2007 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12589 

                                        : 
                                        : 
                                        : 
      In the Matter of                  :      ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                        :      PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
             C. BURT DUREN (CPA),  :           102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                        :      PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
             Respondent.                :      IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                        : 
                                        : 
____________________________________ : 

                                           I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against C. Burt 
Duren (“Respondent” or “Duren”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1 

                                          II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 

1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 

      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III, 3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  

       1.     Duren, 46, was employed as Vice President of Finance and Treasurer for One Price 
Clothing Stores, Inc. (“One Price”) until October 2003, when he was appointed as CFO of the 
company. Duren was terminated from that position in December 2003.  Duren is and has been a 
certified public accountant licensed to practice in the State of South Carolina.   

       2.     One Price is a Delaware corporation headquartered in Duncan, South Carolina.  
Before filing for bankruptcy in February 2004, One Price operated a chain of discount retail 
clothing stores.  One Price’s common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 
12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”).  During the relevant period, One 
Price’s common stock was listed on the NASDAQ National Market until January 2003, and was 
then listed on the NASDAQ Small Cap Market from January 2003 until June 2003 after which 
One Price’s shares were quoted on the Pink Sheets quotation service.  On February 9, 2004, One 
Price filed a voluntary Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition in the Southern District of New York. 

              3.      On March 1, 2007, a final judgment was entered against Duren, 
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 
(“Securities Act”), Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 13a-14, 
13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder, and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) 
and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder, in the civil 
action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Leonard M. Snyder, et al., Civil Action 
Number 7-05-2471-RBH, in the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina. 
Duren was also ordered to pay a $35,000 civil money penalty and barred from serving as the 
officer or director of a public company for five years. 

       4.     The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that in order to increase 
 One Price’s allowable borrowings and avoid default under its credit facility, Duren and others 
 caused One Price to falsely report as inventory merchandise that was ordered but never shipped 
 to the company.  The complaint also alleged that this false reporting of in-transit inventory was a 
 default under the terms of One Price’s credit facility.  The complaint further alleged that based 
 upon the artificially inflated inventory levels reported to its lender, One Price misrepresented that 
 it was in continual compliance with the credit facility in its Form 10-K filed with the 
 Commission for the fiscal year ended February 1, 2003, and Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended 
 May 3, August 2 and November 1, 2003, when in fact One Price was in default under the terms 

                                               2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

 of the credit facility during each of those periods.  Additionally, the complaint alleged that One 
 Price included the falsely inflated levels of inventory in its general ledger and thus reported false 
 and inflated levels of inventory in the interim financial statements One Price filed with the 
 Commission on Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended May 3, August 2 and November 1, 2003. 

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Duren’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     Duren is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.  

       B.     After three years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 

              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 

                      (a)    Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision.

               (c)           Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      (d)    Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 

                                               3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 

       C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

 By       the Commission. 

       N                                              ancy M. Morris
       S                                             ecretary 

                                                4

