---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                        
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                      Before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 53236 / February 7, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING & AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2370 / February 7, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12173 
  
                                        
In the Matter of                       ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
                                       PROCEEDINGS, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
      CUMMINS INC.,                    IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
                                       PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF THE 
Respondent.                            SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
 
 
 
 
                                           I. 

              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Cummins Inc. (“Cummins” or “Respondent”).   

                                          II. 

              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to 
Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.   
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 

A.     RESPONDENT

       Cummins Inc., an Indiana corporation headquartered in Columbus, Indiana, manufactures, 
distributes, and services engines and engine-related products world-wide.  Cummins’ common 
stock is registered with the Commission under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act.  Cummins’ 
stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange and Pacific Stock Exchange under the symbol 
“CMI.”  The company’s fiscal year ends on December 31.   
 
B.     FACTS 

       From 1997 through 2002, Cummins failed to reconcile key accounts at two manufacturing 
locations, in Fridley, Minnesota and Darlington, United Kingdom.  These manufacturing locations 
together accounted for approximately fifteen to twenty percent of Cummins’ total revenues.  
Because Cummins failed to reconcile these accounts, errors in the accounts went uncorrected.  The 
errors had a material impact on Cummins’ previously-reported results.  On August 4, 2003, 
Cummins restated its financial results for the years 2000 through 2002 to correct these and other 
errors. 

       Fridley’s Reconciliation Deficiencies 

       The reconciliation deficiencies at the Fridley facility, which were the primary cause of the 
accounting errors, began as early as 1997.  Cummins’ accounting policies at the time required that 
each manufacturing plant reconcile its major accounts, including accounts payable, on a monthly 
basis.  At the Fridley location, however, the staff failed to reconcile its accounts payable subsidiary 
ledgers to the general ledger between 1997 and 2002.  Instead, they simply rolled forward the 
accounts payable balance reflected in the general ledger account each month without investigating 
or reconciling the differences between subsidiary ledgers and the general ledger.  Cummins’ 
internal auditors cited the Fridley location in 1997 and 1998 for failing to reconcile its subsidiary 
ledgers for the accounts payable accounts to the general ledgers on a regular basis.  In fact, each 
year during the period from 1997 to 2001, Cummins’ internal audit reports recommended that 
Cummins institute a monitoring process to ensure the proper reconciliation of key accounts.  
However, Cummins did not institute a monitoring system until 2001. 

       In 1998 and 1999, Cummins took two actions to address unrelated matters that had the 
unintended effect of exacerbating the accounts payable problem at the Fridley facility.  First, partly 
in response to Y2K concerns, as well as to consolidate and standardize financial systems and 
processes, Cummins began implementing a new management information software system.  
Fridley was one of the first locations to implement the new system, beginning in 1998 and 
continuing into 1999.  However, Cummins did not adequately train Fridley’s employees on the 
new system.  Because the Fridley employees did not understand how the new system worked, they 
created “work around” procedures to fix what they perceived to be problems with the new system 
and its implementation.  These ad hoc “work arounds” introduced additional errors into the 

                                                2
---------------------Page 3---------------------

accounts payable system.  Because Fridley was not reconciling its accounts payable accounts, 
however, Fridley did not identify and correct these errors. 

       Second, during 1998 and 1999, Cummins underwent a major restructuring that, among 
other things, resulted in the departure of a significant portion of Cummins’ financial and 
accounting staff.  The exodus of experienced finance personnel particularly affected the Fridley 
location and further complicated the intermittent efforts to reconcile Fridley’s accounts.  During 
this period, Cummins also consolidated its accounting functions, relocating most of the accounting 
functions, including the reconciliation of accounts payable, from Fridley to a Cummins’ office in 
Nashville.  However, a misunderstanding between the Fridley and Nashville offices led each to 
believe that the other was responsible for reconciling the accounts payable accounts.  Due to this 
misunderstanding, reconciliations were not performed on Fridley’s accounts payable accounts from 
1999 through at least part of 2002.  In addition, Fridley changed controllers three times between 
2000 and 2001, further compounding the internal controls breakdown.  1

       In 1999, Cummins’ independent auditor noted in its letter to the Audit Committee several 
problems with reconciliations and internal controls throughout Cummins.  In response to these 
findings, Cummins began a targeted review of various accounts.  The year-long effort, which was 
assisted by Cummins’ independent auditors, resulted in a $44 million charge to earnings in 2000.  
The effort did not address the problems at Fridley, however.  Thereafter, to address concerns with 
reconciliations company-wide in 2001, Cummins created a corporate quality assurance position to 
investigate all balance sheet accounts, with particular emphasis on internal controls and 
unreconciled accounts.  Additionally, Cummins required that all business units periodically submit 
reports on designated accounts to the quality assurance manager, providing information on the 
status of their balance sheet reconciliations.  Fridley reported the deficiencies in its accounts 
payable reconciliation to the quality assurance manager in August 2001.  However, because the 
Fridley controller at the time had been on the job for only a month, Cummins’ corporate controller 
gave Fridley a grace period of several months in which to correct the reconciliation errors.   

       Although Cummins corrected many of the reconciliation deficiencies at other locations, 
Cummins failed to devote sufficient resources to correct the reconciliation problems at Fridley.  
During most of the period from mid-2001 to the end of 2002, Fridley had only one full-time 
consultant and one full-time employee working on the reconciliations.  By 2001, the accounts 
payable accounts at Fridley had not been reconciled for at least four years, and the limited staff 
working on the issue – who lacked experience with accounts payable – was unable to identify, 
segregate, and correct the improper entries recorded in or missing from the accounts payable 
subsidiary ledgers or the general ledger accounts.  Thus, the reconciliation remediation process 
stretched into the fourth quarter of 2002 without completion.  

       In August 2002, following the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Cummins 
corporate management directed that all unreconciled accounts be reported to corporate 
headquarters and reconciled by year-end 2002.  Faced with this deadline, Fridley reported to the 
corporate office in late October 2002 that its accounts payable accounts remained unreconciled, but 
                                                 
1
       The controller at each Cummins facility is the person responsible for accounting 
procedures and internal controls at that location. 
 

                                                 3
---------------------Page 4---------------------

indicated that it expected no material impact upon income.  At the end of December 2002, 
however, Fridley personnel completed their analysis of the unreconciled accounts and determined 
that the problem was much larger than originally expected.  On January 3, 2003, Fridley reported 
to Cummins corporate senior management there was a “$16 million accounts payable problem.” 

       Darlington’s Reconciliation Deficiencies 

       In June 2000, Cummins’ internal auditors reported that the Darlington, U.K. facility had 
not been reconciling its accounts payable general ledger accounts to the supporting subsidiary 
ledgers.  As was the case at Fridley, it appeared that the accounting staff at Darlington did not 
understand how to reconcile accounts properly.  Cummins replaced the Darlington controller in 
early 2002, as part of its targeted review and clean-up, and required the Darlington facility to report 
periodically regarding the status of its account reconciliations.  However, as with Fridley, 
Cummins failed to devote sufficient resources to training the accounting staff at the facility and 
correcting the problem in a timely manner.  Darlington did not complete the reconciliation of its 
accounts until year-end 2002, over two years after the problem had been identified at the corporate 
level. 

       Cummins’ Restatement 

       In late January 2003, Cummins notified the SEC that it had discovered a potentially 
material accounting error.  Following this disclosure, Cummins took the following steps:  (i) it 
sent trained accounting personnel from the corporate office and the company’s outside auditor to 
Fridley to investigate the accounts payable accounts reconciliation issues and resolve them; (ii) it 
retained special counsel to conduct an internal investigation; (iii) it issued a press release 
announcing the potential adjustment; and (iv) it fired the accounting personnel responsible for 
the delinquent account reconciliations in question. 

       On August 4, 2003, Cummins filed its 2002 Annual Report on Form 10-K, which 
contained restated financial results for the years 2000, 2001, and 2002.2
                                                                         The restatement 
corrected prior period accounting errors caused primarily by Cummins’ failure to timely 
reconcile a number of key accounts, including the accounts payable accounts at Fridley and 
Darlington, and to correct a $44 million charge to earnings the company took in 2000 to correct 
the reconciliation errors that had been identified at that time.3
                                                               The restatement had a material 
effect on Cummins’s earnings results: 

                                                 
2
       Cummins reported unaudited financial results for 2002 in three Quarterly Reports on 
Form 10-Q, filed on May 15, 2002, August 14, 2002 (amended on October 17, 2002), and 
November 1, 2002, and a current report on Form 8-K, filed on May 12, 2003. 
 
3
       The restated financial statements were audited by Cummins’ current auditor, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”), because Arthur Andersen LLP, Cummins’ predecessor 
auditor for the years 2000 and 2001, had ceased operations.  The restatement also included 
additional and unrelated adjustments that PwC identified in the course of performing the 2000 
and 2001 re-audits.     
 

                                                4
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 
                                                     2002         2001         2000      Pre-2000 
                                                  (Millions)    (Millions)    (Millions)   (Millions) 
         Previously reported net earnings            $72         $(102)         $8            
         Restatement adjustments (after tax)         $10          $(1)          $6         ($37) 
         Restated net earnings                       $82         $(103)        $14            
         As a percentage of restated earnings        12%           1%          43%            

       Cummins’ Remedial Measures 

       Cummins instituted a number of improvements to its internal controls designed to prevent 
any recurrence of similar problems in the future, including:  making specific internal control 
enhancements at Fridley and Darlington; hiring experienced finance, accounting, and internal audit 
personnel throughout Cummins; improving reporting lines between business unit controllers and 
the corporate controller; improving internal controls governing account reconciliations; and 
expanding the oversight by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.  

 C.            LEGAL ANALYSIS

       Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder require issuers 
with securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act to file annual and quarterly reports 
with the Commission.  The obligation to file such reports embodies the requirement that they be 
true and correct.  See, e.g., SEC v. Savoy Indus., Inc., 587 F.2d 1149, 1165 (D.C. Cir. 1978), cert. 
denied, 440 U.S. 913 (1979).  Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to make 
and keep books, records, and accounts that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the issuer.  Section 13(b)(2)(B) requires issuers to 
devise and maintain systems of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable 
assurances that, among other things, transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of 
financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain 
accountability of assets.  

       A fundamental concept underlying accurate financial reporting is that all accounting entries 
that are required to be recorded must, in fact, be recorded.4
                                                            During the relevant period, two 
Cummins manufacturing facilities failed to properly record transactions and the disposition of 
assets on their books and ledgers.5
                                   Cummins’ failure to properly record these transactions resulted 
in material discrepancies between the general ledger accounts on Cummins’ books and the 

                                                 
4
       Financial Accounting Standards Board Concepts Statement No.5 (As Amended)  
("Con 5"), Recognition and Measurement in Financial Statements of Business Enterprises,  
para. 63. 
 
5
       Under Con 5, an asset or liability should be recognized on the company’s books when it 
meets four fundamental criteria:  definition, measurability, relevance, and reliability.  
“Recognition” is the process of formally recording or incorporating an asset or liability in an 
entity’s financial statements.  Because Cummins failed to perform reconciliations in a timely 
manner, it failed to detect, quantify, and record many accounting items that met the recognition 
criteria set forth in Con 5. 

                                                 5
---------------------Page 6---------------------

supporting subsidiary ledgers for the accounts payable accounts.  If Cummins had properly and 
timely performed reconciliations for these key balance sheet accounts, it would have detected and 
corrected the errors years earlier.    

       Cummins also failed to maintain sufficient internal accounting controls to provide 
reasonable assurances that its transactions were recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of 
its financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.   Among other 
things, Cummins failed to employ and train qualified personnel in its Fridley and Darlington 
finance departments and failed to have an internal control system adequate to monitor the accounts 
reconciliation process.   

       As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent violated Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 
thereunder. 
  
                                              IV. 
                                                 
       In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts that were 
undertaken by Respondent and the cooperation that Respondent afforded the Commission staff 
during its investigation of this matter.   
                                                 
                                               V. 
 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       Respondent cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future 
violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 
13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder.  
 
 By       the Commission. 
 
 
 
       N                                              ancy M. Morris 
       S                                             ecretary 

                                                6
