---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                               STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                         the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  57846 / May 21, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2831 / May 21, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13043 

In the Matter of                         ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                         PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) 
       MICHAEL RESNICK, CPA              OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                         PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
Respondent.                              IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 

                                             I. 

       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Michael 
Resnick (“Resnick” or “Respondent”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1 
                                             II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.4 below, which are admitted, Respondent 

1 
       Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 

              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by 
       order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has been by name . . . 
       permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an 
       action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of 
       the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations thereunder.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  

       1.     Michael Resnick, age 46, was at the relevant time a certified public accountant 
licensed to practice in the State of Maryland.  Resnick served as Chief Financial Officer of U.S. 
Foodservice, Inc. (“USF”) in its Columbia, Maryland headquarters.  Resnick joined USF in 2000, 
and served as Director of Internal Audit until his promotion to CFO in late 2001.  He was 
terminated by USF in 2003. 

       2.     Royal Ahold (Koninklijke Ahold N.V.) (“Ahold”) is a publicly-held company 
organized in the Netherlands with securities that, at the relevant times, were registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act.  Ahold’s common stock traded in the 
United States on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AHO as evidenced by American 
Depositary Receipts. 

       3.     At the relevant times, USF, a foodservice and distribution company with 
headquarters in Columbia, Maryland, was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ahold. 

       4.     On May 16, 2008, a final judgment was entered against Resnick, permanently 
enjoining him from future violations of Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 
10b-5 and 13b2-1 thereunder, and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-1 thereunder, in the civil action 
entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Michael Resnick, Civil Action Number 05-cv-
1254 (CBB), in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland.   

       5.     The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Ahold’s net income 
for fiscal years 2001 and 2002 was materially overstated by approximately $700 million in 
Commission filings and other public announcements as a result of a fraud at USF in which Resnick 
was a participant. The Complaint further alleged that Resnick made or directed others to make 
entries, including releases of reserves and accruals, in USF’s books and records that he knew, or 
was reckless in not knowing, were false, without basis in fact, and did not comply with Generally 
Accepted Accounting Principles.   

                                               2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                             IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Resnick’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that Resnick is suspended 
from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant.

        By       the Commission. 

                                                          Nancy M. Morris 
                                                          Secretary 

                                              3

