---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                            STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                     the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  57177 / January 22, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2769 / January 22, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12789 

                                            ORDER MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
In the Matter of                            IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                            PURSUANT TO SECTION 4C OF THE 
      CARL S. SANKO, CPA,                   SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
                                            AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
Respondent.                                 COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE 

                                          I. 

      On September 13, 2007, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) issued 
an Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 4C of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, and Notice of Hearing against 
Carl S. Sanko, CPA (“Sanko” or “Respondent”). 

                                         II.

 Respondent      has submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”) which the Commission has 
determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings 
brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without 
admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and 
the subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of 
this Order Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions Pursuant to Section 4C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds 1
                                                                                 that: 

A.     RESPONDENT 

       1.      Sanko, 51, of Tehachapi, California, is a certified public accountant licensed in 
California since 1987.  Sanko operates as a sole proprietorship.  Sanko prepared and issued an 
audit report dated June 3, 2004, in connection with his audit of Platina Energy Group, Inc. 
(“Platina”). 

B.     FACTS 

       1.      Platina is a Delaware corporation based in New Orleans, Louisiana.  During the 
relevant period, Platina’s common stock traded on the OTC Bulletin Board.  Its common stock is 
registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Exchange Act”).  Platina reported $638 in revenue and total assets of $14,312 for its fiscal year 
ended 2003. 

       2.      Platina has at all relevant times been an issuer as defined by the Sarbanes-Oxley 
Act of 2002 (the “Act”). Platina was known as Federal Protection Services, Inc. during the 
relevant period. 

       3.      Sanko audited Platina’s financial statements included in Platina’s annual report for 
fiscal year 2003 on Form 10-KSB, filed with the Commission on June 29, 2004.  Sanko prepared 
and issued an audit report dated June 3, 2004, which was included in Platina’s Form 10-KSB. 

       4.      Although Sanko was aware of the registration requirement, at no point was Sanko 
registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”). 

       5.      Sanko received $7,500 for conducting an audit of Platina’s financial statements for 
its fiscal year 2003, and for issuing an audit report on those financial statements. 

C.     VIOLATIONS 

       1.      Section 4C(a) of the Exchange Act provides, in relevant part, that the Commission 
“may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the privilege of 
appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found by the 
Commission … (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others … or (3) to have 
willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the securities 
laws or the rules and regulations issued thereunder.” 

1 
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                                2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

       2.      Rule 102(e)(1) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides that the 
Commission “may censure a person or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
appearing or practicing before it in any way to any person who is found by the Commission ... (i) 
not to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others … or (iii) to have willfully violated … 
any provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.” 

       3.      Section 102(a) of the Act provides that “it shall be unlawful for any person that is 
not a registered public accounting firm to prepare or issue, or to participate in the preparation or 
issuance of, any audit report with respect to any issuer.”2 

       4.      The provisions of Section 102(a) of the Act became effective on October 22, 2003.      3 

       5.      Based on the conduct described above, Sanko willfully     4
                                                                           violated Section 102(a) of 
the Act. 

D. FINDI       NGS 

       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Sanko did not possess the requisite 
qualifications to represent others and willfully violated Section 102(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 
of 2002. 

                                                  IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately: 

               A.      Sanko is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant. 

               B.      After one year from the date of this Order, Respondent may request that 
the Commission consider its reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

2 
       A violation of the Act or any rule that the PCAOB issues under the Act is treated for all purposes in the 
same manner as a violation of the Exchange Act, including with respect to penalties.  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 
15 U.S.C.A. § 7202(b)(1) (West 2002). 
3 
       Section 102(a) became effective “[b]eginning 180 days after the date of the determination of the 
Commission under Section 101(d)” of the Act that the PCAOB was prepared to undertake its statutory 
responsibilities.  The Commission made the required determination on April 25, 2003.  See Order Regarding Section 
101(d) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Securities Act of 1933 Release No. 8223, Exchange Act Release No. 
47746, 2003 WL 1956164  (Apr. 25, 2003). 
4 
       “Willfully” as used in this Order means intentionally committing the act that constitutes the violation. 
There is no requirement that the actor also be aware that he is violating a rule or statute.  See Wonsover v. SEC, 205 
F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000); Tager v. SEC, 344 F.2d 5, 8 (2d Cir. 1965). 

                                                   3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

                      1.  a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in Respondent’s practice 
before the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public 
company for which Respondent works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as 
Respondent practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 

                      2.  an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 

                             (a)  Respondent is registered with the PCAOB in accordance with 
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective.  However, if 
registration with the PCAOB is dependent upon reinstatement by the Commission, the 
Commission will consider an application on its other merits; 

                             (b)  Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the 
PCAOB, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the 
PCAOB (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                             (c)  Respondent acknowledges responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the PCAOB, including, but not limited to, 
all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
control standards. 

              C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that Respondent’s state CPA license is 
current and Respondent has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards 
of accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, 
the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may 
include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating 
to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice 
before the Commission. 

 By       the Commission. 

       N                                             ancy M. Morris
       S                                             ecretary 

                                               4

