---------------------Page 1---------------------

                       UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                   Before the 

                SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  57933 / June 5, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2836 / June 5, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-13059 

_________________________________ 
                                    :   ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND- 
In the Matter of                    :   DESIST PROCEEDINGS, MAKING 
                                    :     FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE- 
      Faro Technologies, Inc.       :     AND-DESIST ORDER PURSUANT TO  
                                    :     SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
Respondent.                         :     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
                                    : 
                                    : 
_________________________________: 

                                       I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate 
that cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Faro Technologies, 
Inc. (“Faro” or “Respondent”). 

                                       II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted 
an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.   
Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on 
behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting 
or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the 
subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry 
of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a 
Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Order”), as set forth below. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                          III. 

       On the basis of the Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that 1
                                                                                    : 

       A.	    SUMMARY 

       This matter involves Faro’s violations of the anti-bribery, books and records, and 
internal controls provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) through over 
twenty improper payments made to Chinese government officials by Faro’s wholly-
owned Chinese subsidiary, Faro Shanghai Co., Ltd. (“Faro-China”).  From 2004 through 
2006, Faro-China paid a total of $444,492 in bribes to employees of numerous Chinese 
state-owned companies in order to obtain sales contracts.  The improper payments, which 
were authorized by a Faro executive, generated approximately $4.5 million in sales, from 
which Faro realized a net profit of $1,411,306.  None of these improper payments were 
accurately reflected in Faro’s books and records.   Additionally, Faro’s system of internal 
accounting controls failed to prevent or detect the payments.  

       B. 	   RESPONDENT 

       1.     Faro Technologies, Inc. is a software development and manufacturing 
company with its headquarters in Lake Mary, Florida.  Faro conducts operations in a 
number of foreign jurisdictions, including China.  Faro operates in China through its 
wholly-owned subsidiary, Faro Shanghai Co., Ltd.  Faro’s common stock is registered 
with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act, and is listed on the 
NASDAQ.   

       C. 	   FACTS 

              1. 	    Faro Hired a Country Sales Manager for Faro-China, Despite 
                      His Request to “Do Business the Chinese Way” 

       In early 2003, Faro established Faro-China to sell its products in China.  
Previously, Faro relied on a Chinese distributor to sell Faro products to Chinese 
customers.  Shortly after establishing Faro-China, Faro promoted its Vice-President of 
Sales for the Asia-Pacific region to the post of Director of Asia-Pacific Sales (“Sales 
Director”).  In this capacity, the Sales Director had oversight responsibility for sales at 
Faro-China, as well as other Faro subsidiaries and distributors in the region.  

       The Sales Director recommended a former employee of Faro’s Chinese distributor 
for the new Country Sales Manager position (“Country Manager”) at Faro-China, and in 
May 2003, Faro offered that individual an employment contract.  After receiving the 
proposed employment contract, the Country Manager communicated to three Faro 
officers, including the Sales Director, requesting permission to “do business [on behalf of 
Faro] the Chinese way.”  After receiving that request, the Sales Director explained to the 

       1 
              The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                           2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

other two Faro officers that the Country Manager was requesting permission to pay 
kickbacks or other things of value to potential customers in order to obtain sales contracts 
with those customers.   

       After learning of the Country Manager’s request to do business “the Chinese 
way,” certain Faro officers sought a legal opinion from Faro’s Chinese counsel as to 
whether such payments to customers violated Chinese law.  Members of Faro 
management, including the Sales Director, learned that such payments to customers 
likely violated China’s anti-bribery laws, particularly where Faro-China’s customers were 
Chinese state-owned companies.  After receiving this legal advice that noted the 
prevalence of state-owned companies in China, the same Faro officers orally directed 
both the Sales Director and the Country Manager not to make any such payments. 

              2. 	   Faro, through its Sales Director, Authorized Improper 
                     Payments to Chinese State-Owned Customers in Exchange for 
                     Sales Contracts 

       Soon after beginning Faro-China’s operations, the Sales Director authorized the 
Country Manager to make illegal cash payments, termed “referral fees,” to employees of 
Chinese state-owned companies in order to obtain contracts.  For example, in a 
November 2004 e-mail to the Sales Director, the Country Manager requested permission 
to give a $13,300 payment to an employee of a state-owned company.  In the same e-
mail, the Country Manager reiterated that “to have a good relationship with customers in 
China” you have to give them “money.”  The Country Manager explained that taking 
customers to dinner or giving them travel opportunities was not enough to promote a 
good relationship with the potential customer in China.  Instead, employees of 
companies, including state-owned companies, wanted cash in order “to cooperate with 
[Faro] and help [Faro] get the order.”  The Sales Director responded to the Country 
Manager by e-mail, saying that he has “always understood” that this is how business was 
done in China, and approving the improper payment.   

       Throughout 2004 and 2005, the Sales Director approved additional corrupt 
payments to employees of state-owned or state-controlled businesses in China in order to 
obtain sales contracts.  The Sales Director never instructed the Country Manager to cease 
the payments.  Instead, the Sales Director merely expressed concern that they would be 
caught making the payments.  In the same November 2004 e-mail, the Sales Director 
stated that the 20-30% “referral fee” is “a lot of money in China and someone will notice 
that one day and we may all be in trouble.”  The Sales Director instructed the Country 
Manager to “be careful” when making the improper payments, but to make the improper 
payments when he “really needed to do it.”   

                                           3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

              3. 	    The Sales Director Instructed Faro-China Staff to Alter 
                      Accounts and Conceal the True Nature of the Improper 
                      Payments and Approved the Use of Third-Party 
                      Intermediaries to Avoid Detection 

       The Sales Director further instructed Faro-China’s staff to alter account entries in 
order to delete the actual recipient of the improper payments.  In an April 2004 e-mail, 
the Sales Director instructed Faro-China staff:  “please do not use the words ‘customer 
referral fee’ but only ‘referral fee’” when describing the improper payments in the 
company’s books and records.  In the same e-mail, the Sales Director explained that the 
reason for his instruction was that he “did not want to end up in jail” as a result of “this 
bribery.” 

       In February 2005, a new Faro officer e-mailed a news article to all international 
business units describing the prosecution of another U.S. company for payment of bribes 
in China, and stated that the article highlighted the fact that Faro must take precautions to 
“observe U.S. law” in their dealings in China.  The Faro officer specifically forwarded 
the e-mail to the Sales Director and instructed him to have it translated for Faro-China’s 
staff.  After reading the translated e-mail, the Country Manager e-mailed the Sales 
Director and requested authorization to continue making the improper payments, albeit 
through third-party intermediaries or “distributors.”  In a February 16, 2005 e-mail 
response, the Sales Director approved the Country Manager’s proposed use of an 
intermediary to funnel payments to customers, including state-owned customers, in order 
“to avoid exposure.”  Faro-China funneled cash payments through these intermediaries 
for nearly one year, from early 2005 until early 2006.   

       The bribes continued until early 2006.  In total, from 2004 through 2006, Faro 
made $444,492 in improper corrupt payments to Chinese state-owned customers through 
Faro-China in order to obtain and retain contracts from which it realized a net profit of 
$1,411,306.  Faro lacked a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide 
reasonable assurances that the transactions were executed in accordance with 
management’s authorization, and the corrupt payments were improperly recorded as 
legitimate “selling expenses” in Faro’s books and records.  During the period of the 
improper payments described above, Faro provided no training or education to any of its 
employees, agents, or subsidiaries regarding the requirements of the FCPA.  Faro also 
failed to establish a program to monitor its employees, agents, and subsidiaries for 
compliance with the FCPA. 

       D. 	   VIOLATIONS 

       The FCPA, enacted in 1977, added Section 30A of the Exchange Act to prohibit 
issuers, and certain other persons including agents of issuers, from, among other things, 
making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of influencing their 
decisions in order to obtain or retain business.  The FCPA also added Exchange Act 
Section 13(b)(2)(A) to require public companies to make and keep books, records, and 
accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 

                                            4

---------------------Page 5---------------------

dispositions of the assets of the issuer.  The FCPA also added Exchange Act Section 
13(b)(2)(B) to require such companies to devise and maintain a system of internal 
accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that:  (i) transactions are 
executed in accordance with management’s general or specific authorization;  and (ii) 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in 
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable 
to such statements and to maintain accountability for assets.   

       The Sales Director, a Faro executive, explicitly directed and authorized the illegal 
payments made through Faro-China.  Throughout the relevant period, employees of the 
Chinese state-owned companies were foreign officials within the meaning of the FCPA.  
Accordingly, Faro violated the anti-bribery provisions of Section 30A of the Exchange 
Act. 

       Moreover, in connection with these improper payments to Chinese government 
officials, Faro failed to make and keep accurate books, records, and accounts as required 
by Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act.  Further, as evidenced by the extent and 
duration of improper payments to Chinese government officials, and the improper 
recording of these payments in its subsidiary’s books and records, Faro failed to devise 
and maintain an effective system of internal controls sufficient to prevent violations of 
the FCPA, as required by Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act.  As a result of the 
conduct described above, Faro violated Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the 
Exchange Act. 
                      Faro’s Remedial Efforts and Cooperation 

       In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts 
promptly undertaken by Respondent and cooperation afforded the Commission staff. 

                                          IV. 

Respondent Faro Technologies, Inc. has undertaken to: 

       1.     Retain, through Faro’s Board of Directors, within 60 days after the entry 
of this order, an independent consultant (“Independent Consultant”), not unacceptable to 
the staff of the Commission for a period of two (2) years to review and evaluate Faro’s 
internal controls, record-keeping, and financial reporting policies and procedures as they 
relate to its compliance with the anti-bribery, books and records, and internal accounting 
controls of the FCPA, codified at Sections 30A, 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B) of the 
Exchange Act.  Faro shall cooperate fully with the Independent Consultant and shall 
provide the Independent Consultant with access to its files, books, records, and personnel 
as reasonably requested for review;  

       2.     Require that the Independent Consultant issue a report, within one 
hundred twenty (120) days after being retained, summarizing the review and 
recommending policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure compliance with 
the federal securities laws as they related to the FCPA.  Simultaneously with providing 

                                            5

---------------------Page 6---------------------

that report to Faro’s Board of Directors, the Independent Consultant shall transmit a copy 
to Charles E. Cain, Assistant Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange 
Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549;  

       3.      Adopt all recommendations in the report of the Independent Consultant; 
provided, however, that within sixty (60) days after the Independent Consultant serves 
that report, Faro shall advise the Independent Consultant and the Commission in writing 
of any recommendations that it considers to be unduly burdensome, impractical, or 
costly.  With respect to any recommendations that Faro considers unduly burdensome, 
impractical, or costly, Faro need not adopt that recommendation at that time but shall 
propose in writing an alternative policy, procedure, or system designed to achieve the 
same objective or purpose.  As to any recommendation on which Faro and the 
Independent Consultant do not agree, such parties shall attempt in good faith to reach an 
agreement within sixty days after Faro serves the written advice.  In the event that Faro 
and the Independent Consultant are unable to agree on an alternative proposal, Faro will 
by abide by the determinations of the Independent Consultant; 

       4.      Require the Independent Consultant to undertake a review, which shall be 
completed within one year of the entry of this order, of Faro’s policies and procedures 
regarding compliance with the federal securities laws as they related to the FCPA.  
During the review of Faro’s compliance program, the Independent Consultant shall (i) 
certify that Faro’s policies and procedures are appropriately designed to accomplish their 
goals, (ii) monitor Faro’s implementation and compliance with the policies and 
procedures, and (iii) report on the Independent Consultant’s findings as to the 
effectiveness of the policies and procedures to Faro’s Audit Committee.  Should the 
Independent Consultant, during this period, determine that there is a reasonable 
likelihood that corrupt payments have been offered, promised, paid, or authorized by any 
Faro entity, including agents, consultants, and joint ventures, shareholders acting on 
Faro’s behalf, and contractors and sub-contractors working directly or indirectly for Faro, 
the Consultant shall promptly report such payments to Faro’s Audit Committee, and Faro 
shall then be obligated to promptly report the same to the staff of the Commission at the 
address listed above.  Further, the Independent Consultant shall disclose to the staff of the 
Commission in the event that Faro, or its officers, employees, agents, consultants, and 
joint ventures, or shareholders acting on Faro’s behalf, or contractors and sub-contractors 
working directly or indirectly for Faro, refuse to provide information necessary for the 
performance of the Independent Consultant’s responsibilities.  Faro agrees that it will not 
take any action to retaliate against the Independent Consultant for such disclosures.  
During the period, Faro shall immediately disclose to the staff of the Commission, at the 
address listed above, any information of which it learns that suggests there is a reasonable 
likelihood that corrupt payments were offered, promised, paid, or authorized by any Faro 
entity, including agents, consultants, and joint ventures, or shareholders acting on Faro’s 
behalf, or contractors and sub-contractors working directly or indirectly for Faro; and 

       5.      Require the Independent Consultant to enter into an agreement with Faro 
which provides that for the period of engagement and for a period of two years from 
completion of the engagement, the Independent Consultant shall not enter into any 

                                            6

---------------------Page 7---------------------

employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with 
Faro, or any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents 
acting in their capacity.  The agreement will also provide that the Independent Consultant 
will require that any firm with which she/he is affiliated or of which she/he is a member, 
and any person engaged to assist the Independent Consultant in performance of her/his 
duties under this Order shall not, without prior written consent of the Securities and 
Exchange Commission’s Division of Enforcement, enter into any employment, 
consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with Faro, or any of 
its present of former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their 
capacity as such for the period of the engagement and for a period of two years after the 
engagement.   
       6.     These undertakings shall be binding upon any acquirer or successor in 
interest to Faro or substantially all of Faro’s assets and liabilities or business.  For good 
cause shown, the Commission’s staff may extend any of the procedural dates set forth 
above. 
                                           V. 
Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, 
that: 

       (i) 	  Respondent Faro will cease and desist from committing or causing any 
              violations and any future violations of Exchange Act Sections 30A, 
              13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B); 

       (ii)	  Respondent shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in Section IV 
              above; 

       (iii) 	  IT IS FURTHER  ORDERED that Respondent shall, within ten days of 
              the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement of $1,411,306 and prejudgment 
              interest of $439,637.32  to the United States Treasury.  If timely payment 
              is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of 
              Practice 600.  Payment shall be: (A) made by United States postal money 
              order, certified check, bank cashier's check or bank money order; (B) 
              made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission; (C) hand-
              delivered or mailed to the Office of Financial Management, Securities and 
              Exchange Commission, Operations Center, 6432 General Green Way, 
              Stop 0-3, Alexandria, VA 22312; and (D) submitted under cover letter that 
              identifies Faro Technologies, Inc. as a Respondent in these proceedings, 
              the file number of these proceedings, a copy of which cover letter and 
              money order or check shall be sent to Christopher Conte, Associate 
              Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 
              100 F St., N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.   
   By the Commission. 

             F                                       lorence E. Harmon
             Acting                                        Secretary 

                                            7

