---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                  STATES OF AMERICA 
 before                                            the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  56484 / September 20, 2007 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2722 / September 20, 2007 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12817  
                                              
      :  
 :                                                   
 :                                                    
       In the Matter of                      :             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                   :             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
                            Paul R. Venesky (CPA),         :             102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                   :             PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
            Respondent.                  :     IMPO        SING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                          :      
                                          :      
____________________________________ :              
                                                     
                                                I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Paul R. 
Venesky (“Respondent” or “Venesky”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1
            
                                                  
                                                  
                                                  

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
                     1.           Venesky, age 44, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to 
practice in the State of Ohio since 1986.  He was Controller of OMG Americas, an OM Group 
subsidiary, from August 1993 to September 2001 and Director of Operations from September 2001 
to October 2002.  He was also Controller of the Cobalt division from October 2002 through August 
2003.  Venesky left the company in May 2004. 
        
                     2.           OM Group, Inc. (“OM Group”) was, at all relevant times, a Delaware 
Corporation headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio.  The company has over 1,400 employees in North 
America, Europe, Asia and Africa and annual revenues of over $1 billion.  OM Group’s common 
stock is registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 
Act”) and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “OMG.”  Its fiscal 
year end is December 31 and its independent auditor is Ernst & Young LLP. 
 
                     3.           On July 18, 2007, the Commission filed a complaint against Venesky in 
SEC v. James M. Materna, John R. Holtzhauser, and Paul R. Venesky, 07-CV-01274 (D.D.C.).  
On September 11, 2007, the court entered an order permanently enjoining Venesky, by consent, 
from future violations of Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 13b2-
1, and 13b2-2 thereunder, and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder.  
Venesky was also ordered to pay a $25,000 civil money penalty. 
 
     4. The               Commission’s Complaint alleges, among other things, that Venesky 
 aided and abetted fraudulent accounting practices in September 2001 and prior, which resulted in 
 OM Group filing materially false and misleading financial statements in the company’s annual 
 report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001 and, in part, the fiscal year 
 ended December 31, 2002.  The Complaint alleges that OM Group issued a restatement in 
 March 2005 reducing its retained earnings by $64 million as a result of fraudulent conduct.  
 According to the Complaint, Venesky recorded numerous erroneous and unsupported accounting 
 entries at the direction of OM Group’s former Chief Financial Officer and former Controller to 

                                               2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 OMG Americas’ books and records, which were consolidated into OM Group’s financial 
 statements.  These accounting practices allegedly included, among other things, recording 
 inaccurate inventory estimates, and recording erroneous journal entries related to certain 
 litigation involving OMG Americas.  In addition, the complaint alleges that Venesky, in part, 
 failed to provide sufficient information to OMG’s independent auditor about the accounting 
 entries and estimates.  
 
                                                 IV. 
                                                    
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Venesky’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
              A.          Venesky is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
              B.          After three (3) years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that 
the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of 
the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his/her practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he/she works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he/she practices before 
the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                                         (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight       Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Respondent, or the registered                           public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

   (c) Respondent has resolved all di                          sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
   (d) Respondent acknowledges                             his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
                                                  3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
      
         C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

                                                           4 
