---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                                

                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                          Before the  
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 52321 / August 23, 2005 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 2296 / August 23, 2005 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-10856 

                            :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                            :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                            :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                            :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
David Friend, CPA  
                            :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                            :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                           
        

       On August 1, 2002, David Friend ("Friend") was suspended from appearing or practicing 
as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public administrative proceedings 
and a cease-and-desist order instituted by the Commission pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                  This order is issued in response to Friend’s application for 
reinstatement to practice before the Commission as an accountant responsible for the preparation 
or review of financial statements required to be filed with the Commission. 

                  From August 1, 1996 through March 27, 1998, Friend was employed as the controller 
for Paragon Construction International, Inc. (“Paragon”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Golden 
Bear Golf, Inc. (“Golden Bear”).  On October 19, 1998, Golden Bear restated its financial 
statements for the year-ended December 31, 1997 and quarter-ended March 31, 1998.  From at 
least the second quarter of 1997 through the first quarter of 1998, Paragon senior management, 
aided by Friend, implemented a scheme to (1) inflate and accelerate revenue and gross margin 
recognition, (2) understate estimated construction costs, (3) overstate estimated construction 

                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 1603 dated August 1, 2002.  Friend was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after two years upon making certain showings. 
 
Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                 

revenues, and (4) record revenues and gross margin in connection with non-existent contracts.  
As a result of these actions, the Commission found that Friend willfully violated Sections 10(b) 
and 13(b)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rules 10b-5 and 
13b2-1 promulgated thereunder.  The Commission also found that Friend caused, and willfully 
aided and abetted, Golden Bear’s violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange 
Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 promulgated thereunder. 
 
       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Friend 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Friend is not, at this time, seeking to appear 
or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume 
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be 
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Friend’s 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”  This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Friend, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the August 1, 2002 order suspending 
him from practice before the Commission as an accountant, that no information has come to the 
attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, professional conduct or 
qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis for adverse action against 
him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, and that Friend, by 
undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of any company for 
which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in his practice before 
the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be filed with the 
Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
David Friend, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                             
                                             
                                                           Jonathan G. Katz  
                                                           Secretary  
