---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                      Before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  55097 / January 12, 2007 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2540 / January 12, 2007 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12535 

In the Matter of                               :   ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
                                              :   DESIST PROCEEDINGS, MAKING 
                                              :   FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A 
             Lattice Semiconductor Corp.     :   CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
                                              :   PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF 
Respondent.                                  :   THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
                                              :   OF 1934 
                                              : 
                                              : 
                                              : 

                                          I. 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Lattice Semiconductor Corp. 
(“Lattice” or “Respondent”). 
                                          II. 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting 
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order 
Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below. 
                                          III. 
      On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                          SUMMARY

       This is a financial reporting case in which inadequate internal controls caused Oregon-
based Lattice Semiconductor Corp. to file inaccurate Forms 10-Q for the second and third 
quarters of 2003.  By failing to segregate duties concerning the creation and entry of journal 
entries into the general ledger and failing to modernize and integrate its accounting system, 
Lattice contributed to the former controller’s ability to enter unsupported journal entries totaling 
$5.5 million  and to conceal such entries for seven months from senior management and Lattice’s  
auditor.  These unsupported entries led Lattice to restate its financial statements for the first three 
quarters of 2003 in April 20041
                               , reducing previously reported revenue by $10.6 million (an 
approximate 6% decrease) and increasing previously reported loss by $8.9 million (an 
approximate 13% increase).  As a result, Lattice violated the reporting, books and records, and 
internal controls provisions of the Exchange Act. 

       A.	     RESPONDENT 
       Lattice Semiconductor Corp., a Delaware corporation headquartered in Hillsboro, 
Oregon, designs, manufactures, and sells semiconductor products.  Lattice’s stock is registered 
under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and trades on the Nasdaq National Market. 

       B.	     FACTS 
               1.     Lattice’s Business and Deferred Revenue Accounting 
       Lattice manufactures semiconductor products and sells them to end users directly and 
through distributors.  Sales to distributors account for nearly half of Lattice’s revenue.  Lattice 
delays revenue recognition on sales to distributors until the distributors report product resale to 
Lattice.  Lattice uses deferred income accounting to reflect the anticipated revenue and 
corresponding costs for its products shipped to distributors but not yet sold to end users.  For 
example, when Lattice ships a product to a distributor, it records in its general ledger the list 
price as a credit to deferred revenue and the cost of the product as a debit to deferred cost.  
Deferred income is the balance sheet liability account reflecting deferred revenue less deferred 
cost. 

               2.	    The Cross-Check of the Deferred Revenue Account in the General 
                      Ledger 
       At the close of each quarter, the former controller2
                                                           performed an account reconciliation to 
cross-check the accuracy of Lattice’s estimate of deferred revenue as reflected in its general 
ledger.  This account reconciliation was based on the carrying value of the Lattice inventory 
sitting on distributors’ shelves and provided an estimate of the minimum deferred revenue 
balance required to reflect sales of this inventory.  Lattice’s accounting policies provided that if 
there was no material discrepancy between the account reconciliation estimate of deferred 
revenue and the estimate of deferred revenue reflected in Lattice’s general ledger, the general 
ledger was accurate and the books could be closed for the quarter. 

   1
     Although Lattice restated its financial statements for the first quarter of 2003, that first 
quarter restatement is not addressed in this Order. 
   2
     The Commission instituted settled Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings 
against the former controller, Ronald Lee Hoyt, CPA, on September 30, 2005, in which Hoyt 
agreed not to practice before the Commission for three years. 

                                                2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

              3.      The Discrepancies and Unsupported Journal Entries 
                      (a)	   The Second Quarter 2003 Discrepancy of $1.3 Million and the
                             Unsupported Journal Entries to Reconcile the Discrepancy 
       In July 2003, the former controller performed his usual reconciliation of the deferred 
revenue account in connection with his preparation of quarterly financial statements.  The 
reconciliation showed that the estimate of deferred revenue was $1.3 million higher than the 
deferred revenue balance on the general ledger, indicating an understatement of Lattice’s 
deferred revenue and that Lattice had prematurely recognized revenue.  Exploiting weaknesses in 
Lattice’s internal controls, the former controller then wrote and caused the entry of two 
unsupported journal entries totaling $1.3 million to offset the imbalance between the estimate of 
deferred revenue derived from the account reconciliation and the estimate of deferred revenue in 
the general ledger.  These journal entries consisted primarily of credits (increases) to deferred 
revenue and debits (reductions) to accrued accounts payable instead of debits (reductions) to 
revenue.  After making the unsupported journal entries, the former controller closed the books 
for the quarter.  As a result, Lattice recognized revenue prematurely. 

                      (b)	   The Third Quarter Discrepancy of $5.5 Million and the
                             Unsupported Journal Entries to Reconcile the Discrepancy 
       At the end of the third quarter, the former controller again performed his customary 
reconciliation to cross-check the amount of deferred revenue recorded in the general ledger.  
This time, the discrepancy was $5.5 million.  The former controller, again exploiting weaknesses 
in the company’s internal controls, then wrote and caused the entry of several unsupported 
journal entries, totaling $5.5 million (inclusive of the $1.3 million of unsupported journal entries 
from the second quarter), to offset the imbalance and close the books for the quarter. 
       The use of unsupported journal entries in the second and third quarters of 2003 
contributed to Lattice’s recognition of revenue contrary to Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles (GAAP).  Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts No. 5, “Recognition and 
Measurement in Financial Statements of Business Enterprises” (CON 5), provides that “revenues 
are considered to be earned when the entity has substantially accomplished what it must do to be 
entitled to the benefits represented by the revenue.” CON 5 Para. 83.  Accounting Research
Bulletin No. 43 (ARB 43) provides that “Profit is deemed to be realized when a sale in the 
ordinary course of business is effected . . .”  ARB 43 Chapter 1.A.1. 

              4.	     Lattice’s Internal Investigation and Restatement 
       On January 12, 2004, the former controller disclosed to Lattice’s former VP of finance 3 
the second and third quarter general ledger imbalances of $1.3 and $5.5 million, respectively.  
When Lattice learned about the unsupported journal entries, it relieved the former controller of 
responsibility for journal entries and the general ledger and began an internal investigation.  The 
audit committee subsequently hired independent outside counsel to investigate.  As described 
more fully below, the investigations identified material internal controls weaknesses and resulted 
in changes to the method of estimating deferred revenue and restatements of all 2003 Forms 
10-Q on April 19, 2004.  The restatements reduced previously reported revenue by $10.6 million 
(an approximate 6% decrease) and increased previously reported net loss by $8.9 million (an 
approximate 13% increase). 

   3
     The former VP of Finance terminated employment with Lattice in August 2005. 

                                               3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

               5.	    Lattice’s Internal Controls Weaknesses 
       In the relevant period, Lattice had two material weaknesses in the design and operation of 
its internal controls: failure to segregate duties concerning journal entries and failure to recognize 
that its method of calculating deferred revenue had become inaccurate over time. 
       With respect to Lattice’s failure to segregate duties, Lattice’s accounting practices 
enabled the former controller to have sole review and approval of all journal entries and gave 
him access to the general ledger.  The lack of segregation allowed the former controller to make 
the unsupported journal entries without review.  Lattice’s dependence on the former controller 
was such that, although it terminated him in March 2004, it hired him three days later as a 
consultant to assist with the quarterly filing. 
       At least a year before the former controller’s misconduct, Lattice’s auditor orally notified 
Lattice’s former VP of finance that the lack of segregation of duties for journal entries and 
general ledger reconciliation was an internal controls weakness.  However, no changes to
Lattice’s controls were made.   
       The second material control weakness related to Lattice’s failure to integrate its 
accounting system.  In particular, Lattice’s accounting system failed to recognize that a 
percentage used in its account reconciliation methodology to estimate deferred revenue had 
become inaccurate over time because the accounting system had not been properly integrated to  
precisely determine the effects of sales discounts.  During the relevant period, Lattice had not
been collecting as large a percentage of cash from its distributors as it had historically,  and 
Lattice’s finance staff did not have adequate systems or personnel to account for the effects of 
this change.   The failure to recognize the drop in percentage of cash collected also caused 
Lattice to overstate the amount of previously deferred revenue taken into income. 
       C.	     VIOLATIONS 
               1.	    Reporting Violations: Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 
                      13a-13 Thereunder 
       Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-13 thereunder require issuers with 
securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, such as Lattice, to file quarterly 
reports with the Commission and to keep this information current.  The obligation to file such
reports embodies the requirement that they be true and correct.  See, e.g., SEC v. Savoy Indus.,
Inc., 587 F.2d 1149, 1165 (D.C. Cir. 1978).  Lattice violated these provisions by filing materially 
inaccurate Forms 10-Q for the second and third quarters of 2003. 
               2.	    Record-Keeping Violation: Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act 
       Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires Section 12 registrants to make and 
keep books, records, and accounts that accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of their assets.  Lattice’s books and records inaccurately reflected the transactions 
and disposition of assets for the second and third quarters of 2003, in violation of Section 
13(b)(2)(A). 

                                                4

---------------------Page 5---------------------

              3.      Internal Control Violation: Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act 
       Section 13(b)(2)(B) requires issuers with securities registered under Section 12 of the 
Exchange Act to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to 
reasonably assure, among other things, that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP. 
       Lattice had two primary areas of material weakness in the design and operation of 
internal controls: segregation of duties and failure to update its estimate methodology.  These 
material weaknesses contributed to the former controller’s ability to make and conceal the 
unsupported journal entries.  Lattice therefore violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. 
       D.     REMEDIAL EFFORTS 
       In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered Lattice’s cooperation and 
remedial actions. 
                                              IV. 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Lattice’s Offer. 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that Respondent Lattice cease and desist from
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 
and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-13 thereunder. 

       By the Commission. 
                                                Nancy M. Morris
                                                Secretary 

                                               5

