---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                      the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  53716 / April 25, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2417 / April 25, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12272 
 
                                              ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
In the Matter of                              PROCEEDINGS, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                              IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
      JAMES JARRETT,                          PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF THE 
                                              SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Respondent. 
 
 
                                                
 
                                           I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against James Jarrett (“Jarrett” or “Respondent”). 
                                            
                                          II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to 
Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1
                                                                                 that:  
 
                                            A.  Facts 
 
       Hayes Lemmerz International, Inc. (“Hayes”) is a Delaware corporation that is 
headquartered in Northville, Michigan and has operations throughout the United States, South 
America, and Europe.  The company is a major global supplier of automotive and commercial 
highway components (including wheels, brakes, powertrains, suspensions, and structural and other 
lightweight components).  During the relevant time period, Hayes was a publicly-held company 
with securities registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act.  
Hayes’ shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange until it was de-listed after the disclosure of 
the fraudulent accounting scheme described below.  Hayes’ common stock is now listed on the 
NASDAQ National Market.  

       James Jarrett, age 60, is a resident of Indiana.  From May 2000 through October 2001, he 
was the Business Unit Controller for Hayes’ North American Aluminum Wheel Group (“AWG”), 
which was a part of Hayes’ North American Wheel Group (“NAWG”).  Jarrett’s responsibilities as 
the Business Unit Controller involved ensuring that AWG’s books and records complied with 
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) and Hayes’ internal accounting policies.  

        From at least 1999 through the first quarter of 2001, Hayes, acting through senior officers 
and employees, engaged in a fraudulent scheme to achieve corporate earnings targets and mask 
declining operating results.  Specifically, the fraudulent accounting scheme was carried out at 
certain Hayes plants and business units through three primary mechanisms:  (1) inappropriately 
deferring operating expenses to balance sheet accounts, (2) failing to process vendor invoices, and 
(3) recording certain expenses as assets by improperly classifying expenses as gain contingencies 
or inaccurately recording customer credits as receivables.  Hayes employees, including senior 
officers and accounting personnel, directed, ratified and/or knew of the above-listed practices.  As 
a result of Hayes’ fraudulent scheme, Hayes made materially false filings with the Commission in 
fiscal years 1999 and 2000 and for the first quarter of 2001.  In December 2001, Hayes restated its 
results for fiscal years 1999, 2000 and for the first quarter of 2001.  On December 5, 2001, Hayes 
filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy due, in part, to revelations about its improper accounting practices.  
Hayes emerged from bankruptcy in June 2003. 
       As the AWG Business Unit Controller, Jarrett knew of and participated in at least some of 
the improper accounting practices described above because he either authorized the action and/or 
ratified the improper records that resulted from the practices.  As the AWG Business Unit 
Controller, Jarrett was responsible for reconciling various income statements and balance sheet 
accounts and knew that these entries were false and that they misstated Hayes’ financial 
statements.  Specifically, Jarrett knew that in late 2000, approximately $2.9 million of operating 
                                                 
       1
         The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding 
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  

 
                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

expenses (such as utility costs, freight, and machine repairs) were improperly deferred to AWG 
plant balance sheet accounts.  Also, throughout 2000 and 2001, Jarrett failed to adequately accrue 
customer discounts on AWG financial statements, causing AWG’s reported net sales to be 
overstated.  Jarrett knew that failing to adequately accrue these discounts resulted in false entries 
on AWG’s balance sheet.  In February 2001, Jarrett knew that approximately $3 million of 
operating expenses were inappropriately deferred to an AWG plant balance sheet.  Finally, in 
2001, Jarrett was present during a meeting in which a Hayes’ executive directed an AWG plant 
controller, for whom Jarrett had oversight as the AWG Business Unit Controller, to stop recording 
supply invoices in months where the plant was not going to meet its internal earnings forecasts.  
The controller complied and a significant amount of unrecorded supply invoices accumulated at 
that plant.  Jarrett knew that this directive would cause expenses not to be recorded and the plant’s 
expenses to be understated.   

                                      B.  Legal Analysis 

       As a result of the conduct described above, Jarrett violated Section 13(b)(5) of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder, and caused violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 
and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder.  

       1.  Record-Keeping Provisions:  Section 13(b)(2)A) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-1 
           Thereunder                                                                               

              Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires issuers with securities registered 
pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act to make and keep books, records, and accounts that 
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of their assets.  Rule 13b2-1 prohibits 
the falsification of any book, record, or account subject to Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange 
Act. 

              As AWG Business Unit Controller, Jarrett was responsible for reconciling various income 
statements and balance sheet accounts and authorized and/or ratified entries in Hayes’ books and 
records that he knew inaccurately reflected transactions and dispositions of the company’s assets.  
Jarrett therefore caused Hayes’ violation of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and violated 
Rule 13b2-1 under the Exchange Act.   

       2.  Internal Controls Provisions: Sections 13(b)(2)(B) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act        

              Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires issuers with securities registered pursuant 
to Section 12 of the Exchange Act to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls 
sufficient to reasonably assure, among other things, that transactions are recorded as necessary to 
permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP.  Section 13(b)(5) of the 
Exchange Act prohibits any person from knowingly circumventing or knowingly failing to 
implement a system of internal accounting controls or knowingly falsifying any book, record, or 
account required to be made and kept pursuant to Section 13(b)(2) of the Exchange Act.   

              As AWG Business Unit Controller, Jarrett knew that the inappropriate accounting entries 
he and others made at the AWG plants would be included in Hayes’ books, records, and financial 
results.  Jarrett therefore caused Hayes’ books and records to contain inaccurate and incomplete 
                                                 3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

descriptions of the accounting entries, which prevented Hayes from preparing financial statements 
in conformity with GAAP.  By engaging in such conduct, Jarrett violated Section 13(b)(5) of the 
Exchange Act and caused Hayes’ violation Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. 

        3.   Reporting Provisions: Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13    
             Thereunder          

              Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder require that 
issuers with securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act file annual and quarterly 
reports with the Commission and keep this information current.  By engaging in the above-
described conduct, Jarrett caused Hayes to file inaccurate quarterly and annual reports with the 
Commission.  Accordingly, Jarrett caused Hayes’ violation of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act 
and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder.  

                                                        IV. 
                                                           
         In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Jarrett’s Offer. 
 
         Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that Respondent James Jarrett cease and desist from 
(1) committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 13(b)(5) of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder, and (2) causing any violations and any future violations 
of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 
thereunder.   
 
 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 
 
 

                                                         4 
