---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                                 
                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  

                                          Before the 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 51570 / April 19, 2005 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 2233 / April 19, 2005 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-10476 

                            :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                            :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE
In the Matter of 
                            :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                            :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Craig R. Clark 
                            :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                            :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION   
                           
        

       On May 7, 2001, Craig R. Clark (“Clark”) was suspended from appearing or practicing as 
an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public administrative proceedings 
instituted by the Commission against Clark pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules 
of Practice.1
              On September 27, 1999, the Commission filed a complaint against Clark and others 
in SEC v. Jerry M. Walker and Craig R. Clark, Civ. 99-1737-PHX-ROS.  On March 16, 2001, 
Clark consented to the entry of a Final Judgment of Permanent Injunction and Other Equitable 
Relief ("Final Judgment"), without admitting or denying the allegations in the complaint, except 
as to subject matter jurisdiction, which he admitted.  On April 11, 2001, the United States 
District Court for the District of Arizona entered the Final Judgment, which permanently 
enjoined Clark from violating Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1 thereunder, and aiding and abetting violations 
of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-13 thereunder, and ordered him to pay a 
$15,000 civil penalty. 
                                                 
1 
 See  Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 1391, dated May 7, 2001.  Clark was permitted, pursuant   
to the order, to apply for reinstatement afte r three years upon making certain showings.    
 
Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3)  
of this section may be made at any time, and the applic ant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated                         
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i).                        
---------------------Page 2---------------------

       Clark served in the capacity of Chief Financial Officer for Unison HealthCare 
Corporation (“Unison”).  The complaint alleges that Clark and other officers made unsupported 
journal entries to the corporate accounting records that materially inflated Unison’s net income.  
The unsupported entries alleged in the complaint include a $3.4 million adjustment to revenue 
and a $1.7 million adjustment to expenses.  During the third quarter of 1996, these unsupported 
adjustments enabled Unison to report net income of roughly $1.2 million verses a “true” net loss 
of almost $4 million.  Furthermore, the complaint alleges that the unsupported journal entries 
resulted in Unison filing materially false and misleading financial statements for the third quarter 
ended September 30, 1996, and that Clark knew or was reckless in not knowing that the financial 
statements were false and misleading. 
        
       This order is issued in response to Clark's application for reinstatement to practice before 
the Commission as an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial 
statements required to be filed with the Commission.  
        
       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Clark 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Clark is not, at this time, applying to appear 
or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume  
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be   
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Clark's 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order.  
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”  This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Clark, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the May 7, 2001 order suspending 
him from practice before the Commission as an accountant, that no information has come to the 
attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, professional conduct or 
qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis for adverse action against 
him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, and that Clark, by 
undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of any company for 
which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in his practice before 
the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be filed with the 
Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 
  
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Craig R. Clark is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
By the Commission. 
                                             
                                             
                                             
                                            Jonathan G. Katz 
                                            Secretary 
