---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED                                  STATES OF AMERICA 
 before                                            the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  54128 / July 11, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2459 / July 11, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12363
                                              
      :  
 :                                                    
 :                                                     
       In the Matter of                      :             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                   :             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
            Marvin Winick,          :     102(e)            OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                   :             PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
            Respondent.                  :     IMPO        SING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                          :      
                                          :      
____________________________________ :              
                                                      
                                                I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Marvin 
Winick (“Respondent” or “Winick”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1
            
                                                  
                                                  
                                                  

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III(4) below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
               On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
       1.           Winick, from Thornhill, Ontario, is an accountant who frequently serves as a 
consultant to issuers that have a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) [15 U.S.C. § 78l] or that are required to file 
reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78o(d)] (“U.S. public 
companies”).  He also frequently serves as an officer or director of and provides other 
miscellaneous services on behalf of U.S. public companies.   
        
       2.           In 2003, Winick was hired as a consultant by Greentech USA, Inc. (“Greentech”), 
Information Architects Corporation (“IACH”) and Tekron, Inc. (“Tekron”) (collectively referred to 
here as “the issuers”).  He was responsible for preparing the issuers’ financial statements and 
preparing and filing their Commission filings.     
        
       3.           At all relevant times, Greentech, IACH and Tekron each had a class of securities that 
was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of Exchange Act and  was traded on 
the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”).   
 
              4.           On June 30, 2006, the Commission filed a complaint against Winick in SEC v. 
Marvin Winick, et al. (Civil Action No. 306-CV-1164-D) in the U.S. District Court for the 
Northern District of Texas, Dallas Division.  On July 5, 2006, the court entered an order 
permanently enjoining Winick, by consent, from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities 
Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5 and 13b2-1 
thereunder, and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder.  Winick was also ordered to pay 
$30,985 in disgorgement of ill-gotten gains, plus prejudgment interest, and ordered to surrender 
50,000 shares of IACH stock he received from IACH.  He was also ordered to pay a $100,000 civil 
penalty, and prohibited from acting as an officer or director of any U.S. public company.   
 
              5.           The Commission’s complaint alleged that Winick was hired by Greentech, IACH 
and Tekron as a consultant charged with responsibility for, among other things, properly preparing 

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

and filing the issuers’ Commission filings; instead Winick filed 2003 Forms 10-KSB on each 
issuer’s behalf that included fraudulent Reports of Independent Certified Public Accountants 
(“Audit Report(s)”) and fraudulent auditor’s consent letters (“Consent(s)”).  More specifically, the 
Commission alleged that Winick placed an electronic signature of an Oklahoma City-based 
accounting firm (“accounting firm”) on the Audit Reports and Consents without authorization from 
the accounting firm; in fact, neither the accounting firm nor any other auditor had audited the 
issuers’ 2003 financial statements.  The complaint further alleged that Winick subsequently filed 
on the issuers’ behalf Forms 10-QSB that contained a balance sheet comparing the financial results 
for the current quarter with those for the previous annual period and falsely designating the annual  
period as “audited.”  According to the complaint, after the accounting firm confronted Winick 
about the fraudulent Audit Reports and Consents, Winick filed a 2003 Form 10-KSB/A on behalf 
of IACH that included an Audit Report and Consent putatively signed by a second auditor, based 
in Colorado.  Again, Winick placed this signature on the Auditor Report and Consent without 
authorization from the auditor and, in fact, no audit had been comp    leted.  The complaint further 
alleged that in February 2005, Winick filed on Tekron’s behalf another Form 10-QSB that 
contained a balance sheet comparing the financial results of the current quarter with those of the 
prior annual period, falsely designating the annual period as “audited.” 
 
                                                   IV. 
                                                      
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Winick’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that Winick is suspended 
from appearing or practicing before the Commission.   
  
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

                                                    3 
