---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                      the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 58438 / August 28, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2868 / August 28, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13149 

                                        : 
                                        : 
                                        : 
In the Matter of                        :      ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                        :      PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
     SHANE H. TRAVELLER (CPA),          :      102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                        :      PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
     Respondent.                        :      IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                        : 
                                        : 
____________________________________ : 

                                           I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Shane 
H. Traveller (“Respondent” or “Traveller”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1 

                                          II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 

1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 

      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  

              1.      Traveller, age 40, is a resident of North Logan, Utah.  From August 28, 
2003 until February 28, 2005, Traveller was a member of the Board of Directors of 21st
                                                                                      Century 
Inc. (“21st
          Century”). During the relevant period, Traveller provided consulting services that 
facilitated 21st
              Century’s election to be regulated as a business development company.  Traveller 
obtained a license as a CPA from the State of California in 1994.  The license lapsed in 2003 after 
he failed to renew it. 

              2.      21st
                          Century was, at all relevant times, a Nevada corporation with its 
principal place of business in Las Vegas, Nevada.  As a business development company regulated 
under the Investment Company Act of 1940, 21  st
                                                Century raised capital and made investments in 
various entities. At all relevant times, 21st
                                         Century’s common stock was registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), 
and traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board.  On November 1, 2005, 21 st
                                                                              Century filed for 
protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and was formally dissolved by the State 
of Nevada on July 13, 2007. 

              3.      On April 10, 2008, the Commission filed a complaint against Traveller in 
SEC v. Compass Capital Group, Inc., et al., Civil Action No. 2:08-cv-00457-ECR-PAL (D. Nev.).  
On August 6, 2008, the U.S. District Court for the District of Nevada entered an order permanently 
enjoining Traveller, by consent, from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 
1933; Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5 and 13b2-1 thereunder 
and from aiding and abetting 21st
                                 Century’s violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder.  Traveller also was ordered to pay 
a $50,000 civil money penalty and was barred for five years from acting as an officer or director of 
a public company and  from participating in an offering of penny stock. 

              4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Traveller 
 violated the antifraud provisions of the securities laws when he supervised the drafting of 21st 
 Century’s 2004 Form 1-E and offering circular and failed to ensure that proper disclosures were 
 made concerning the precarious financial state of the company.  In August 2004, Traveller 
 drafted a memo describing 21 st
                                Century as a “house of cards.”  Traveller further noted that the 
 company was in a “cash crisis” and that its financial statements did not clearly present its 
 financial condition.  The complaint also alleged that Traveller failed to disclose the terms of 21st 

                                               2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

 Century’s financing arrangement with Compass Capital and that Compass Capital was acting as 
 an underwriter for the company’s 2004 offering.  The complaint further alleged that Traveller 
 aided and abetted 21st
                       Century’s reporting and record-keeping violations when he knew in 
 August 2004 that the CEO’s brothers had loaned money for operating capital to 21st
                                                                                   Century and 
 did nothing to ensure the disclosure of those loans.  He also agreed to approve certain 
 investments after they had been made, in violation of the company’s internal policies, and 
 prepared false Board minutes concerning the Board’s determination of the fair values of the 
 company’s assets that were supplied to 21st
                                            Century’s auditors in connection with their 2003 
 audit of 21st
             Century.   

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Traveller’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     Traveller is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.  

       B.     After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 

              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 

                      (a)    Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which 
he/she is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any 
criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that 
would indicate that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision;

               (c)           Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
                                               3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

               (d)           Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 

       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he/she has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards 
of accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

 By       the Commission. 

       F                                             lorence E. Harmon
       A                                              cting Secretary 

                                               4

