---------------------Page 1---------------------

                U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

                                  Washington, D.C. 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 56427 / September 13, 2007 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2707 / September 13, 2007 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12788 

IN THE MATTER OF BANKER & CO. AND JITENDRA S. BANKER  

The United States Securities and Exchange Commission (Commission) announced the 
issuance of an Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 4C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice 
(Order) against Banker & Co. and Jitendra S. Banker (J. Banker). 

The Order alleges that Banker & Co. prepared and issued and J. Banker participated in the 
preparation and issuance of audit reports on the financial statements of three public 
companies in 2004, without first registering with the Public Company Accounting 
Oversight Board (Board).  Section 102(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-
Oxley Act) prohibits accounting firms not registered with the Board from preparing or 
issuing audit reports with respect to any issuer after October 22, 2003.  The Order alleges 
that, by this conduct, Banker & Co. and J. Banker lacked the requisite qualifications to 
represent others and that Banker & Co. willfully violated Section 102(a) of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act. 

Based on the above, the Order institutes proceedings against Banker & Co. and J. Banker 
pursuant to Section 4C(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) and 
Rule 102(e)(1)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, and additionally as to Banker & 
Co., Section 4C(a)(3) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice, to determine whether the allegations in the Order are true, and whether 
they should be censured or temporarily or permanently denied the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before the Commission as an accountant.   

A hearing will be scheduled before an administrative law judge to determine whether the 
allegations in the Order are true, to provide Banker & Co. and J. Banker an opportunity to 
dispute these allegations, and to determine what sanctions, if any, are appropriate.  The 
Order directs the Administrative Law Judge to issue an initial decision in this matter no later 
than 300 days from the date of service of the Order. 
