---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                 STATES OF AMERICA 
 before                                           the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  56485 / September 20, 2007 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2723 / September 20, 2007 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12818  
                                             
      :  
 :                                                   
       In the Matter of                     :             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                   :             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
                     JOHN R. HOLTZHAUSER     :             102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                     (CPA),                     :             PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                          :     IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                     Respondent.                :              
                                          :      
____________________________________ :              
                                                     
                                               I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against John R. 
Holtzhauser (“Respondent” or “Holtzhauser”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1
                     
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section 3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
                     1.           Holtzhauser, age 50, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to 
practice in the State of Ohio.  He served as Controller of OM Group, Inc. (“OMG”) from 1991 until 
his resignation in August 2003. 
        
                     2.           OMG was, at all relevant times, a Delaware corporation with its principal 
place of business in Cleveland, Ohio.  OMG was engaged in the production and marketing of value-
added, metal based specialty chemicals and related materials produced from cobalt and nickel.  At 
all relevant times, OMG’s common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 
12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and traded on the New York Stock 
Exchange under the symbol “OMG.” 
 
                     3.           On July 18, 2007, the Commission filed a complaint against Holtzhauser in  
SEC v. James M. Materna, John R. Holtzhauser, and Paul R. Venesky, 07-CV-01274 (D.D.C.).  
On September 11, 2007, the court entered an order permanently enjoining Holtzhauser, by consent, 
from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and 
Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder, 
and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange 
Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder.  Holtzhauser was also ordered to pay 
$76,707 in disgorgement of certain past bonus payments, and a $100,000 civil money penalty.   
 
     4. The               Commission’s complaint alleges, among other things, that Holtzhauser 
 engaged in fraudulent accounting practices, which resulted in OMG filing materially false and 
 misleading financial statements in the company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal 
 years ended December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2002, and in the company’s quarterly reports 
 on Form 10-Q for all four quarters of 2002 and the first three quarters of 2003.  The complaint 
 alleges that OMG issued a restatement in March 2005 reducing its retained earnings for the 
 relevant period by $64 million as a result of the fraudulent conduct.  According to the complaint, 
 Holtzhauser recorded and directed numerous erroneous and unsupported accounting entries, 
 estimates, and top side adjustments to OMG’s books and records that materially increased 

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 OMG’s annual and quarterly net income in a departure from generally accepted accounting 
 principles.  These accounting practices allegedly included, among other things, overcapitalizing 
 overhead costs, improperly recording supplier receivables, recording inflated inventory recovery 
 yields, recording inaccurate inventory estimates, and duplicating entries made at the operating 
 unit level.  In addition, the complaint alleges that Holtzhauser failed to provide sufficient 
 information to OMG’s independent auditor about the accounting entries, estimates, and top side 
 adjustments.  
  
                                                 IV. 
                                                    
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Holtzhauser’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
              A.          Holtzhauser is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant.   
 
              B.          After five (5) years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that 
the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of 
the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                                         (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight       Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Respondent, or the registered                           public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

   (c) Respondent has resolved all di                          sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 

                                                  3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

   (d) Respondent acknowledges                                       his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
      
         C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

                                                          4 
