---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                         before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  55281 / February 13, 2007 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2555 / February 13, 2007  
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12567 
 
__________________________________ 
 
In the Matter of                                                    :             ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND- 
                                           :             DESIST PROCEEDINGS, MAKING  
THE DOW CHEMICAL                                  :             FINDINGS AND IMPOSING A  
COMPANY,     : CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER  
                                           :             PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF  
Respondent.     : THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT  
      : OF 1934 
__________________________________ 
 
                                              I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against The Dow Chemical Company 
(“Respondent” or “Dow”). 
 
                                             II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, the Respondent has submitted an 
Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for 
the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order 
Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as set forth below (“Order”).    1
 
                                                III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds2
                                                                                     that: 
 
                                             Summary 
 
              This matter involves Dow’s violations of the books and records and internal controls 
provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) through numerous improper payments 
made by DE-Nocil Crop Protection Ltd. (“DE-Nocil”), a fifth-tier subsidiary of Dow, from 1996 
to 2001, to Indian government officials to register several agro-chemical products slated for 
marketing in time for India’s growing season.  DE-Nocil paid an estimated $200,000 in improper 
payments and gifts to Indian government officials at the state and federal levels.  None of these 
payments were accurately reflected in Dow’s books and records.  Additionally, Dow’s system of 
internal accounting controls failed to prevent the payments. 
 
                                           Respondent 
 
              1.           Dow is a Delaware corporation with corporate headquarters in Midland, 
Michigan, that manufactures and sells chemicals, plastic materials, agricultural and other 
specialized products and services.  Its common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant 
to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 
                                     Other Relevant Entities 
 
              2.           During the time period 1996 to 2001, DE-Nocil, headquartered in Mumbai, India, 
was a fifth-tier subsidiary of Dow that manufactured and marketed pesticides and other products 
primarily for use in the Indian agriculture industry.  DE-Nocil was established in 1994 as a joint 
venture when a majority-owned Dow subsidiary, DowElanco, acquired a 51% ownership interest 
in the agro-chemicals business of a local Indian company, National Organic Chemicals Industry 
Ltd. (“Nocil”) owned by a prominent Indian family.  In 1997, DowElanco became a wholly-
owned subsidiary of Dow and was re-named Dow AgroSciences LLC (“DAS”), a Delaware 
limited liability company.  As of March 2001, DAS’ stake in DE-Nocil was 75.7%.  On January 
                                                 
1
 The Commission has contemporaneously filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the District of 
Columbia against Dow alleging violations of Section 13(B)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (“Exchange Act”) and seeking a civil penalty.  Without admitting or denying the Commission’s allegations, Dow 
has consented to the entry of a final judgment by the Court that requires Dow to pay a $325,000 civil penalty.  See SEC 
v. The Dow Chemical Company, Case No. 07CV00336 (D.D.C.) (filed February 13, 2007).  
 
2
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other person or 
entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                                   2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

13, 2005, Dow attained 100% ownership of DE-Nocil, and on March 31, 2005, DE-Nocil 
changed its name to Dow AgroSciences India Pvt. Ltd. 
 
                                             Facts 
 
A.         The Indian Government Regulatory Framework Affecting DE-Nocil 
 
              3.           Before it could market its products in India, DE-Nocil was required by Indian law 
to obtain government registration for its products.  This process involved registration both at the 
federal and state levels.  At the federal level, the principal regulator was an agency called the 
Central Insecticides Board (“CIB”).  The CIB was comprised of twenty-nine officials charged 
with examining safety and health issues related to agricultural chemicals.  Within the CIB was a 
Registration Committee composed of six persons that recommended whether to grant 
registrations and when they would be granted.  A key member of the Registration Committee 
(the “CIB Official”) held considerable influence within the Committee.  He was able to  
determine if and when a company’s agricultural chemical product would be registered and, in 
fact, the CIB Official would refuse or delay registrations unless he received financial payments.  
This individual left the CIB in 2000.  Dow is not aware of any similar requests made by CIB 
officials after the CIB Official left. 
 
              4.           In addition to the CIB, there were a number of state government officials in India 
that had some regulatory and enforcement authority regarding agro-chemical businesses like DE-
Nocil.  These included “licensing officers” in each state, whose approval was necessary for 
producing, warehousing and selling product in a particular state.  The state officials also included 
inspectors, 30,000 to 40,000 in number, who could prevent the sale of a product by drawing 
samples and falsely claiming that the samples were misbranded or mislabeled.  Misbranding or 
mislabeling carried significant potential penalties.  Companies could challenge accusations of 
misbranding or mislabeling in court.  However, rather than face a suspension in sales of products 
caused by the false accusations, companies would make petty cash payments to state inspectors. 
 
B.          DE-Nocil’s Improper Payment Practice and Improper Accounting 
 
              5.           DE-Nocil’s commercial vice-president, who later became a consultant to DE-
Nocil, and DE-Nocil’s technical development leader, developed an improper payment practice to 
facilitate the registration of DE-Nocil’s products to the CIB.  The practice involved directing 
improper payments to the CIB Official through the use of consultants and unrelated companies. 
 
              6.           Beginning in 1996, DE-Nocil personnel began accumulating funds off DE-Nocil’s 
books to be available to pay the CIB Official contemporaneously with DE-Nocil’s product 
registration applications.  DE-Nocil personnel enlisted one of DE-Nocil’s contractors, an Indian 
product formulator that mixed and packaged products for DE-Nocil, to accumulate funds on DE-
Nocil’s behalf.  The contractor, through agreement with DE-Nocil, added fictitious charges 
called “incidental charges” on its bills to DE-Nocil.  The contractor agreed to accumulate and 

                                                  3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

segregate the funds representing these “incidental charges” and to disburse these funds as 
directed by DE-Nocil.  When needed, DE-Nocil contacted the contractor and asked it to disburse 
funds to third party “consultants” who delivered the funds to the CIB Official.  DE-Nocil made 
approximately $20,000 in improper payments to the CIB Official through this contractor. 
 
              7.           DE-Nocil also made an improper payment to the CIB Official through a second 
contractor, which was also one of DE-Nocil’s product formulators.  In this case, the second 
contractor, through an agreement with DE-Nocil, issued DE-Nocil a false invoice for $12,000 in 
capital equipment.  DE-Nocil paid the contractor the $12,000, which was then delivered to the 
CIB Official.  The payment was authorized by DE-Nocil’s Managing Director.  
 
              8.           None of the payments that were ultimately made to the CIB Official were 
properly recorded in DE-Nocil’s books.  The payments resulted in the expedited registration 
of three DE-Nocil products:  “Pride (NI-25),” “Nurelle-D,” and “Dursban 10G,” products which 
used active ingredients that were widely used, and registered by Dow or other pesticide 
manufacturers, in other countries, including the United States.  As a result of the expedited 
registrations, Dow estimated that DE-Nocil generated $435,000 in direct operating margin from 
the accelerated sales of these products, 75.7% (or $329,295) of which, based on Dow’s 
ownership interest, went to Dow. 
 
              9.           DE-Nocil also made improper payments at the state level.  DE-Nocil routinely 
used money from petty cash to pay state officials in order to distribute and sell its products.  
These payments were transmitted to state officials through DE-Nocil’s distributors in the field.  
Although the payments were in small amounts – well under $100 per payment – the payments 
were numerous and frequent.  Dow estimates that from 1996 to 2001, $87,400 in payments were 
made to state inspectors and other state officials.  None of these payments were properly 
recorded in DE-Nocil’s books. 
 
              10.        In sum, over a six-year period, DE-Nocil distributed an estimated $200,000 in 
improper payments through federal and state channels.  An independent auditor retained by Dow 
identified approximately $75,600 of payments and, through a process of extrapolation, estimated 
an additional $125,000, for a total of approximately $200,000.  From this amount, an estimated 
$39,700 was used by DE-Nocil to register its products and an estimated $87,400 was paid to 
state level agriculture inspectors.  The remainder of improper payments consisted of an 
estimated: $37,600 for gifts, travel, entertainment and other items; $19,000 to government 
officials; $11,800 to sales tax officials; $3,700 to excise tax officials; and $1,500 to customs 
officials.  The payments were made without knowledge or approval of any Dow employee. 
 
C.         Dow’s Internal Investigation 
 
              11.        Dow conducted an internal investigation of DE-Nocil and, upon its completion, 
voluntarily approached Commission staff and presented the results.  Dow also undertook certain 
remedial actions relating to the DE-Nocil matter, including employee disciplinary actions.  Dow 

                                                  4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

retained an independent auditor to conduct a forensic audit of the books and records and internal 
controls at DE-Nocil; reported its internal investigation to the Audit Committee of the Board of 
Directors; and provided FCPA compliance training to employees at DE-Nocil, as well as to 
employees at DAS.  In addition to the remedial actions relating to DE-Nocil, Dow restructured 
its global compliance program; improved and expanded FCPA compliance training for 
employees of Dow and its subsidiaries worldwide; trained its internal auditors to recognize 
FCPA issues; and joined a non-profit association specializing in anti-bribery due diligence that, 
among other things, screens potential partners and other third parties that work with 
multinational corporations and provides FCPA training to them.  Dow also hired an independent 
consultant to review and assess its FCPA compliance program.  
 
D. Violations 
 
              12.        The FCPA, enacted in 1977, added Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(A) to require 
public companies to make and keep books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, 
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the issuer, and 
Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act to require such companies to devise and maintain a 
system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that: (i) 
transactions are executed in accordance with management’s general or specific authorization; 
and (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in 
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such 
statements, and to maintain accountability for assets. 
 
              13.        As detailed above, because DE-Nocil did not properly record the payments that it 
made to Indian government officials in its books, its books, records and accounts did not, in 
reasonable detail, accurately reflect its transactions and disposition of assets. 

              14.        As a result of the conduct described above, Dow violated Section 13(B)(2)(A) of 
the Exchange Act. 

              15.        In addition, DE-Nocil failed to take steps to ensure that its employees and 
consultants complied with the FCPA and to ensure that the payments it made to Indian 
government officials were accurately reflected on its books and records.   

              16.        As a result of the conduct described above, Dow violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of 
the Exchange Act. 

                                                  

                                    Dow’s Remedial Efforts 

              In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered the remedial acts 
undertaken by Dow and cooperation afforded the Commission staff. 

                                                  5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                                                               IV. 

              In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to accept the 
Respondent’s Offer. 

              Accordingly, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, it is hereby ORDERED that 
Dow cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of 
Section 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. 

              By the Commission. 

 
      Nancy M. Morris 
      Secretary 
 
 
 

                                                                   6 
