---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  

                                        Before the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 57224 / April 28, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 2814 / April 28, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-8967 

                          :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                          :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE
In the Matter of 
                          :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                          :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Calvin Kirk French, CPA 
                          :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                          :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 

       On March 5, 1996, Calvin Kirk French, CPA (“French”) was denied the privilege of 
appearing or practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of 
the Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                    French consented to the entry of the order without 
admitting or denying the findings therein.  This order is issued in response to French’s 
application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant 
responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed with the 
Commission. 

       During 1989 and 1990 Chambers Development Company, Inc. (“Chambers”) understated 
its expenses and overstated its earnings by engaging in certain fraudulent capitalization practices 
in violation of GAAP.  French served as the audit manager and engagement administrator for 
audit of Chambers’s 1989 financial statements by Grant Thornton LLP.  He served as the senior 
manager for the audit of Chambers’s 1990 financial statements.  With respect to these audits, the 
Commission found that French engaged in improper professional conduct within the meaning of 
Rule 102(e) by failing to conduct them in accordance with GAAS.  French failed to obtain 
sufficient competent evidential matter to afford a reasonable basis for Grant Thornton’s opinion 
on Chambers’s financial statements, failed to assess properly whether the company’s financial 
statements were fairly presented in accordance with GAAP, and failed to exercise due 
professional care in the performance of the audit. 

1 
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 767 dated March 5, 1996.  French was permitted, pursuant 
to the order, to apply for reinstatement after 18 months upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, French 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  French is not, at this time, seeking to appear 
or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume 
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be 
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original order in this regard.  Therefore, the denial of French’s 
privilege of appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant 
continues in effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in 
this regard in accordance with the terms of the original order. 

       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 

       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by French, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the March 5, 1996 order denying 
him the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 
and that French, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee 
of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in 
his practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to 
be filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is 
accordingly, 

2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 

“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 

                                                 2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Calvin Kirk French, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as 
an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission. 

       By the Commission. 

                                           Nancy M. Morris 
                                           Secretary 

                                              3

