---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                 STATES OF AMERICA 
 before                                            the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  55324 / February 21, 2007 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2564 / February 21, 2007 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12571
                                              
      :  
 :                                                   
 :                                                    
 In the Matter of                                  :             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                   :             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
          ANTHONY L. HURLEY,                      :             102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                   :             PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
 Respondent.                                   :            IMPO SING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                          :      
                                          :      
____________________________________ :        
                                                     
 
                                                I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
Anthony L. Hurley (“Respondent” or “Hurley”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1
                    
                                                 
                                               II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
                     1.           Hurley, age 36, was a certified public accountant licensed in the State of 
Massachusetts.  He was employed as the assistant controller of Enterasys Networks, Inc. 
(“Enterasys”) from October 1998 through November 2002.    2
        
        2. Enterasys was headquar             tered in New Hampshire and engaged in the business 
of providing telecommunications switches and related products.  Its stock was registered with the 
Commission and listed on the New York Stock Exchange.  Accordingly, Enterasys filed periodic 
reports with the Commission containing consolidated financial statements.3
        
        3. On February              6, 2007, in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange 
Commission v. Anthony L. Hurley, Civil Action Number 07cv022, in the United States District 
Court for the District of New Hampshire, a final judgment was entered against Hurley, 
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange 
Act and Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder, and from aiding and abetting violations of 
Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 
13a-13 thereunder.  Hurley was also ordered to pay $24,498 in disgorgement of ill-gotten gains 
from his sales of stock and bonuses while participating in the fraud, as well as $7,526 in 
prejudgment interest. 
 
                           4.           The Commission’s complaint alleged that Hurley and others engaged in a 
 fraudulent scheme which resulted in Enterasys reporting inflated revenues for periods in 2000 
 and 2001.  The Commission alleged, among other things, that   Enterasys improperly recognized 

                                                 
2
             Enterasys was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cabletron Systems, Inc. (“Cabletron”) from 
February 2000 to August 6, 2001, at which time Enterasys merged into, and became successor to, 
Cabletron.  As used in this Order, “Enterasys” refers to Cabletron (prior to the merger) and 
Enterasys (after the merger).   
 
3
             Enterasys became a private company on March 1, 2006, following its acquisition by two 
limited liability companies.  On the same day, it filed a Form 15 with the Commission 
terminating the registration of its common stock under Section 12 of the Exchange Act.  On 
March 2, 2006, Enterasys was delisted from the New York Stock Exchange. 
 
                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 revenues from sales tied to investment transactions that lacked economic substance.  It 
 contended that Enterasys funded the purchase of its own products by purchasing equity interests 
 in other companies that used the investment proceeds to pay for Enterasys products.  The 
 Commission alleged that Hurley knowingly participated in the fraudulent scheme by allowing 
 Enterasys to improperly recognize revenue and by misrepresenting material information to or 
 concealing material information from Enterasys’ outside auditors. 
 
                                                 IV. 
                                                    
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Hurley’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
              A.          Hurley is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
              B.          After five years from the date of this Order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
 
                            1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
  2. an independent accountant.  Su                    ch an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
 
                                          (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight       Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Respondent, or the registered                           public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

   (c) Respondent has resolved all di                          sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
   (d) Respondent acknowledges                              his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
                                                  3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
 
         C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependant on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 

                                                           4 
