---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                      the 

                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  57490 / March 13, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2797 / March 13, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-12989 

                                        : 
                                        : 
  In the Matter of                      :      ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                        :      PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
  GARY THOMAS SCHERPING, CPA  :                102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                        :      PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
  Respondent.                           :      IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                        : 
____________________________________ : 

                                          I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in 
the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
Gary Thomas Scherping, CPA (“Respondent” or “Scherping”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of 
the Commission’s Rules of Practice.1 

                                         II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an 
Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for 
the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of 

1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 

      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary 
hearing, may, by order, … suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant  
. . . who has been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, 
by reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or 
aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules 
and regulations thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

these proceedings, and the findings contained in paragraph III.3 below, which are admitted, 
Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant 
to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing 
Remedial Sanctions (the “Order”), as set forth below.   

                                            III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 

       1.     Scherping, CPA, age 48, was a certified public accountant licensed to practice in 
the State of Colorado from June 29, 1988 to May 31, 1998, when his license lapsed.  He was 
Executive Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Quovadx, Inc. (“Quovadx” 
or the “Company”) from approximately September 2000 until April 2004. 

       2.     Quovadx, a Delaware corporation headquartered in Englewood, Colorado, was a 
software company that licensed software and sold related services to the healthcare industry.  At 
all relevant times, Quovadx’s common stock was registered with the Commission under 
Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) and traded on the 
NASDAQ. 

       3.     On February 29, 2008, a final judgment was entered against Scherping, 
permanently enjoining him from violating, directly or indirectly, Section 17(a) of the Securities 
Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”), Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and 
Rules 10b-5, 13a-14, 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder, and from aiding and abetting any violation 
of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 
13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder, in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission 
v. Gary Thomas Scherping, Civil Action No. 1:07-cv-01511-WYD-MEH, in the United States 
District Court for the District of Colorado.  Scherping was also ordered to pay a $70,000 civil 
money penalty and prohibited from acting as an officer or director for five years. 

       4.     The Commission’s Complaint alleged, among other things, that between the 
second and fourth quarters of 2003, Quovadx fraudulently recognized over $12 million in 
software licensing revenue from transactions with three different third parties, overstating its 
software licensing revenue by proportions ranging from approximately 9 percent to nearly 180 
percent. The Complaint alleged that Scherping knew or was reckless in not knowing that 
Quovadx could not recognize the revenue from these transactions.  The Complaint also alleged 
that Quovadx prematurely recognized $250,000 in revenue into the third quarter of 2002, 
overstating its software licensing revenue by 10 percent for that quarter.  The Complaint 
alleged that Scherping knowingly provided substantial assistance to Quovadx in improperly 
accelerating this revenue. The Complaint further alleged that Scherping made false 
representations in letters to Quovadx’s auditors about these transactions and that he signed 
false disclosure certifications in connection with the Company’s reports on Form 10-Q for the 
pertinent quarters and its annual report on Form 10-K for 2003.  Finally, the Complaint alleged 
that Scherping circumvented internal accounting controls and falsified books and records in 
connection with these transactions.  

                                             2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                             IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest 
to impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Scherping’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     Scherping is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant. 

       B.     After five years from the date of this order, Scherping may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of 
the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

       1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, of 
any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such an 
application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public 
company for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices 
before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 

       2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 

              (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, 
is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the “Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be 
effective; 

              (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

              (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has 
complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 

              (d)     Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Respondent 
appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the Board including, but not limited to, all requirements 
relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   

       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 

                                              3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards 
of accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters 
referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, 
professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

 By        the Commission. 

       N                                              ancy M. Morris
       S                                              ecretary 

                                              4

