---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                      the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  53718 / April 25, 2006 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  2419 / April 25, 2006 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-12274 
 
                                              ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
In the Matter of                              PROCEEDINGS, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                              IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
      GREG JONES,                             PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF THE 
                                              SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Respondent. 
 
 
                                                
 
                                           I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Greg Jones (“Jones” or “Respondent”). 
                                            
                                          II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to 
Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1
                                                                                 that:  
 
                                            A.  Facts 
 
       Hayes Lemmerz International, Inc. (“Hayes”) is a Delaware corporation that is 
headquartered in Northville, Michigan and has operations throughout the United States, South 
America, and Europe.  The company is a major global supplier of automotive and commercial 
highway components (including wheels, brakes, powertrains, suspensions, and structural and other 
lightweight components).  During the relevant time period, Hayes was a publicly-held company 
with securities registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act.  
Hayes’ shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange until it was de-listed after the disclosure of 
the fraudulent accounting scheme described below.  Hayes’ common stock is now listed on the 
NASDAQ National Market. 

       Greg Jones, age 52, is a resident of Georgia.  From 1997 through August 2000, he was the 
Business Unit Controller for Hayes’ North American Aluminum Wheel Group (“AWG”), which 
was a part of Hayes’ North American Wheel Group (“NAWG”).  Jones’ responsibilities as the 
Business Unit Controller included ensuring that AWG’s books and records complied with 
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) and Hayes’ internal accounting policies.  
From August 2000 through May 2003, Jones was a plant manager for the Gainesville, Georgia 
AWG manufacturing plant.  Although Jones did not have formal accounting or finance 
responsibilities in that position, he was aware of various accounting entries that were made.  

       From at least 1999 through the first quarter of 2001, Hayes, acting through senior officers 
and employees, engaged in a fraudulent scheme to achieve corporate earnings targets and mask 
declining operating results.  Specifically, the fraudulent accounting scheme was carried out at 
certain Hayes plants and business units through three primary mechanisms:  (1) inappropriately 
deferring operating expenses to balance sheet accounts, (2) failing to process vendor invoices, and 
(3) recording certain expenses as assets by improperly classifying expenses as gain contingencies 
or inaccurately recording customer discounts as receivables.  Hayes employees, including senior 
officers and accounting personnel, directed, ratified and/or knew of the above-listed practices.  As 
a result of Hayes’ fraudulent scheme, Hayes made materially false filings with the Commission in 
fiscal years 1999 and 2000 and for the first quarter of 2001.  In December 2001, Hayes restated its 
results for fiscal years 1999, 2000 and for the first quarter of 2001.  On December 5, 2001, Hayes 
filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy due, in part, to revelations about its improper accounting practices.  
Hayes emerged from bankruptcy in June 2003. 
       As Business Unit Controller of AWG, Jones was responsible for reconciling various 
income statements and balance sheet accounts and directed, ratified or knew that false entries were 
being made to Hayes’ books and records and were included in Hayes’ financial statements.  
                                                 
       1
         The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding 
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  

 
                                               2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

Specifically, Jones knew that certain AWG plants were not adequately recording payroll and 
employee benefit accruals to achieve internal earnings targets.  In addition, Jones knew that one 
AWG plant had stopped recording supply invoices to achieve internal earnings targets.   

              As an AWG plant manager, Jones also knew of -- but took no steps to correct -- 
inappropriate accounting entries that were made at his plant.  For example, in October 2000, Jones 
knew that his plant inappropriately deferred $1.2 million of tooling expenses to a balance sheet 
account.  Also, in late 2000 and early 2001, Jones knew that his plant had improperly deferred 
approximately $295,000 of operating expenses to a balance sheet account.  Finally, in March 2001, 
Jones knew that his plant had inappropriately deferred approximately $230,000 of operating 
expenses to a balance sheet account at the direction of an AWG vice president, to help another 
plant achieve its earning targets for a particular quarter.  Jones knew that these entries were false. 

                                      B.  Legal Analysis 

       As a result of the conduct described above, Jones violated Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange 
Act and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder and caused violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder.   

       1.  Record-Keeping Provisions:  Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-1 
           Thereunder                                                                               

              Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires issuers with securities registered 
pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act to make and keep books, records, and accounts that 
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of their assets.  Rule 13b2-1 under the 
Exchange Act prohibits the falsification of any book, record, or account subject to Section 
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act. 

              As AWG Business Unit Controller and as an AWG plant manager, Jones was responsible 
for reconciling various income statements and balance sheet accounts and authorized and/or 
ratified entries in Hayes’ books and records that he knew inaccurately reflected transactions and 
dispositions of the company’s assets.  Jones therefore caused Hayes’ violation of Section 
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and violated Rule 13b2-1 under the Exchange Act. 

 2.       Internal Controls Provisions: Sections 13(b)(2)(B) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act        

              Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires issuers with securities registered pursuant 
to Section 12 of the Exchange Act to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls 
sufficient to reasonably assure, among other things, that transactions are recorded as necessary to 
permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP.  Section 13(b)(5) of the 
Exchange Act prohibits any person from knowingly circumventing or knowingly failing to 
implement a system of internal accounting controls or knowingly falsifying any book, record, or 
account required to be made and kept pursuant to Section 13(b)(2) of the Exchange Act.   

              As AWG Business Unit Controller and as an AWG plant manager, Jones knew that the 
inappropriate accounting entries he and others made at the AWG plants would be included in 
Hayes’ books, records, and financial results.  Jones therefore caused Hayes’ books and records to 
                                                 3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

contain inaccurate and incomplete descriptions of the accounting           entries, which prevented Hayes 
from preparing financial statements in conformity with GAAP.  By engaging in such conduct, 
Jones violated Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and caused Hayes’ violation of Section 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. 

        3.   Reporting Provisions: Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13    
             Thereunder          

        Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder require that 
issuers with securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act file annual and quarterly 
reports with the Commission and keep this information current.  By engaging in the above-
described conduct, Jones caused Hayes to file inaccurate quarterly and annual reports with the 
Commission.  Accordingly, Jones caused Hayes’ violation of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act 
and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder. 

                                                       IV. 
                                                          
         In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Jones’ Offer. 
 
         Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that Respondent Greg Jones cease and desist from (1) 
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange 
Act and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder, and (2) causing any violations and any future violations of 
Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 
thereunder.   
 
 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Nancy M. Morris 
       Secretary 
 

                                                        4 
