---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

 Be                                      fore the 

 SECURITIES                       AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 59277 / January 22, 2009 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2920 January 22, 2009 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13347 

In the Matter of                             ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
                                             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO SECTION 
     Cablevision Systems Corporation,        21C OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
                                             OF 1934, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
Respondent.                                  IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 

                                          I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Cablevision Systems Corporation (“Cablevision” 
or “Respondent”). 

                                          II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over Respondent and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making 
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds 1
                                                                                that: 

                                           Summary 

       1.     Cablevision Systems Corporation is a Delaware corporation located in Bethpage, 
New York.  It is a diversified entertainment and telecommunications company with a market 
capitalization of approximately $8.05 billion in 2007 and 2007 annual revenues of $6.484 billion.  
Cablevision’s stock is registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and is listed on the New 
York Stock Exchange. 

       2.     Rainbow Media Holdings, Inc. (“Rainbow”), during the relevant period, was a 
subsidiary of Cablevision that owned interests in and managed national and regional entertainment 
programming networks, the Madison Square Garden sports and entertainment business and cable 
television advertising sales companies. At all relevant times, the financial statements of Rainbow 
and its majority-owned businesses were consolidated into Cablevision’s financial reports. 

       3.     From at least 1999 through mid-2003, contrary to Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles (“GAAP”), Cablevision recognized certain costs as current expenses when, in fact, the 
costs should not have been recognized in those periods.  These improper “prepays,” as the practice 
was referred to, occurred because certain Cablevision managers and employees, most significantly 
within Rainbow, falsified invoices and other documents in order to accrue expenses earlier than 
when they in fact should have been accrued.  These improperly recognized expenses were reflected 
in Cablevision’s books, records and accounts and caused Cablevision to overstate expenses in 
earlier fiscal periods, and understate expenses in later periods. 

       4.     Separately, from at least 2000 through late 2003, contrary to GAAP, Cablevision 
improperly recognized payments known as launch and marketing support (hereinafter collectively 
“launch support”), which were paid to Cablevision by television program vendors for advertising 
and marketing campaigns to attract viewers to the vendors’ programs.  These errors occurred in 
and directly affected financial reporting for Cablevision’s cable distribution business.  The 
improper timing of the recognition of launch support was reflected in Cablevision’s books, records 
and accounts and caused Cablevision to reduce expenses in the periods in which launch support 
was improperly recognized and correspondingly increase expenses in the periods when the launch 
support should have been recognized.   

       5.     The improper recognition of prepays and launch support payments caused 
Cablevision’s reports to the Commission to be materially inaccurate.  These errors, among others, 

1 
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on 
any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                               2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

caused Cablevision in 2004 to restate its financial statements for the years 2000 through 2002 and 
for the nine months ended September 30, 2003.  The improper recognition of prepaid expenses and 
launch support payments in Cablevision’s books and records was possible because during the 
relevant period Respondent lacked sufficiently robust internal controls. 

                                      Improper Prepays 

       6.     Cablevision delegated to the corporation’s individual business units the authority to 
incur expenses and authorize payments.  A corporate, centralized accounting department recorded 
expenses in Cablevision’s books and records and issued checks for payments.  Cablevision’s 
accounting department, however, had little direct knowledge of the type of details discussed below 
at a business unit level. Internal accounting procedures merely called for recognition of expenses 
and requests for payment of expenses to be reported to the accounting department on a 
standardized “authorization for payment” form (“APF”), signed by the appropriate level business 
unit manager, with evidence of the expense, such as an invoice, attached.  These controls, however, 
were not sufficient to prevent the manipulation of expense recognition that occurred.   

       7.     Certain Cablevision employees and managers for years were able to defeat 
Cablevision’s internal accounting controls using methods that were neither particularly devious nor 
sophisticated.  For example, some employees submitted counterfeit invoices to Cablevision’s 
accounting department that were of noticeably poor quality, and were different in appearance from 
legitimate invoices.  Certain Cablevision employees also asked vendors to submit false, vague or 
misdated invoices for services not yet provided.  These invoices were used to submit fraudulent 
APFs to Cablevision’s accounting department in support of early expense recognition and 
payments. In addition, Cablevision checks were sometimes sent to the business unit from which a 
counterfeit or false invoice originated, ostensibly for delivery to the vendor by an employee of the 
business unit. This deficient practice permitted the business unit to hold payment until the 
anticipated services were actually rendered. 

       8.     The circumstances described above demonstrate that Cablevision’s internal 
controls, including employee training, were inadequate during the relevant period and failed to 
provide reasonable assurance that transactions were executed as authorized by management, or that 
transactions were properly recorded so that Cablevision’s financial statements could be prepared in 
accordance with GAAP and accountability for assets could be maintained. 

                           Improper Launch Support Recognition 

       9.     Beginning in the middle to late 1990s, television program vendors began providing 
lump-sum launch support payments to Cablevision in connection with multi-year contracts with 
Cablevision to carry their programs.  Contract provisions concerning launch support payments 
were generally understood to require Cablevision to use the funds for advertising and marketing 
campaigns to attract viewers to the vendors’ programs.  Contracts providing for large up-front 
payments of launch support to Cablevision were not uncommon.  These contracts sometimes also 

                                               3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

required that the launch support be refunded by Cablevision if, among other things, it dropped the 
program. 

       10.    In some cases during the relevant period, Cablevision properly recognized non-
refundable launch support as a reduction of expenses ratably over the life of the contract with the 
vendor and recognized refundable launch support ratably over the life of the refund period.  In fact, 
in 2002, Cablevision publicly stated that this was how it accounted for launch support.  From 2000 
through the third quarter of 2003, however, Cablevision improperly accelerated the recognition of 
launch support received from several program vendors, rather than recognizing it ratably over the 
life of the contract or the refund period.  This early recognition ran contrary to its general practice 
and its 2002 public statement, and violated GAAP’s matching principle. 

       11.    For example, after the first two years of an eight-year contract, Cablevision 
changed its recognition for $15.16 million of launch support from recognition ratably over the life 
of the contract to immediate recognition of the remaining balance.  Under the circumstances, 
however, Cablevision should have accounted for launch support payments ratably over the life of 
the contract where, as here, the contract term was fixed and there was no obligation to refund 
launch support. Another example involved a contract with a launch support refund period.  After 
the first eight months of a 24 month refund period, Cablevision changed its recognition of $5.3 
million in launch support from recognition ratably over the life of the refund period to immediate 
recognition of the remaining balance.  Under the circumstances, however, Cablevision should have 
accounted for launch support ratably over the refund period specified in the contracts. 

       12.    Cablevision also improperly recognized launch support early by treating a 2002 
seven-year agreement to carry certain programs as if it were two agreements – one of three years, 
and another of seven years. As two separate agreements, Cablevision recognized $48 million in 
launch support over the ‘three year’ agreement (approximately $16 million per year), and 
recognized $16 million in launch support over the ‘seven year’ agreement (approximately $2.28 
million per year). Under GAAP, however, the two agreements should have been treated as one 
agreement, with the result that the total $64 million in launch support should have been recognized 
ratably over seven years, i.e., approximately $9.14 million per year.  The purported two agreements 
were negotiated simultaneously and dated only five days apart, and the ‘seven year’ agreement also 
amended the terms of the ‘three year’ agreement.  Cablevision employees improperly cast the 
single deal as two agreements to achieve early recognition of the launch support payments.     

       13.    The accelerated recognition of launch support revealed further that Cablevision’s 
internal accounting controls were insufficient to permit the preparation of its financial statements in 
conformity with GAAP.  Cablevision personnel were, but should not have been, able to make 
unchecked changes to the scheduled recognition of launch support. 

                             Cablevision Financial Misstatements 

       14.    As a result of the improper expense recognition discussed above, Cablevision’s 
financial statements in its annual reports on Form 10-K and its quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q for 

                                               4

---------------------Page 5---------------------

the years 2000 through 2002 and the nine months ended September 30, 2003 were materially 
inaccurate. As reported in Cablevision’s 2004 restatement, the sum of the launch support and the 
expense recognition errors resulted in a $15.184 million overstatement of expenses in 2000, a 
$25.389 million understatement of expenses in 2001, and a $7.581 million understatement of 
expenses in 2002.  For the first 9 months of 2003, the sum of the errors in expense and launch 
support recognition resulted in a $7.895 million understatement of expenses.  The combined errors 
resulted in (net of estimated tax) a 3.8% understatement of Cablevision’s net income in 2000, a 
1.5% overstatement of net income in 2001, a 4.9% overstatement of net income in 2002 and a 
5.1% understatement of Cablevision’s net loss in the nine months ended September 30, 2003. 

                                          Violations 

       15.    Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder require 
issuers of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act to file periodic reports 
with the Commission containing complete and accurate financial information presented in 
accordance with GAAP.  Exchange Act Rule 12b-20 further requires that periodic reports contain 
such further material information, if any, as may be necessary to make the required statements not 
misleading. 

       16.    Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires issuers of securities registered 
pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12 to make and keep books, records, and accounts which, in 
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of assets of the 
issuer. Section 13(b)(2)(B)(ii) of the Exhange Act requires reporting companies to devise and 
maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements in 
conformity with GAAP. 

       17.    As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent violated Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-
13. 

                                Cablevision’s Remedial Efforts 

       18.    In determining to accept Respondent’s Offer, the Commission considered remedial 
acts promptly undertaken by Respondent and cooperation afforded the Commission staff. 

                                               5

---------------------Page 6---------------------

                                             IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, 
Respondent cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of 
Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rules 12b-20, 
13a-1 and 13a-13.

 By       the Commission. 

                                                         Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                         Secretary 

                                              6

