---------------------Page 1---------------------

                          UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                     Before the

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 58310 / August 5, 2008 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2859 / August 5, 2008 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13115 / August 5, 2008 

In the Matter of 
                 ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
                                   PROCEEDINGS, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
MARK C. THOMPSON, 
                IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A 
                                   CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER PURSUANT TO  
Respondent. 
                      SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                   EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

                                         I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
public cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Mark C. Thompson (“Thompson” or 
“Respondent”). 

                                         II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose 
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are 
admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease and-Desist 
Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order 
(“Order”), as set forth below. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                             III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1
                                                                                that: 

A.     Overview 

       This matter arises from a business relationship between Respondent Mark C. Thompson 
and Ernst & Young LLP (“E&Y”) at a time when E&Y was serving as auditor for three public 
companies on whose boards Thompson sat:  Company A, Company B and Company C.  The 
business relationship involved Thompson’s and E&Y’s collaboration in creating a series of audio 
CDs designed for business development purposes.  The relationship spanned 19 months -- 
October 2002 through early May 2004 -- during the entirety of which Thompson served on 
Company A’s board, and during parts of which Thompson also served (i) as a member of 
Company A’s Audit Committee; and (ii) as a member of the boards of directors of Company B 
and Company C.  All three companies had engaged E&Y as auditor prior to the commencement 
of Thompson’s business relationship with E&Y.  As detailed below, the relationship impaired 
E&Y’s independence as the auditor of each of these issuers, thereby causing each issuer to lack 
independently audited financial statements.  By entering into and participating in this 
independence-impairing relationship, by failing to disclose the resulting conflict of interest, and 
by signing three annual reports and one audit committee report incorrectly claiming that the 
companies’ auditor was independent, Thompson was a cause of each issuer’s resulting reporting 
violations. 

B.     Respondent 

       Mark C. Thompson is a resident of San Jose, California. Respondent is in the business 
of facilitating and coaching others to facilitate interviews and discussions with business, political 
and entertainment leaders.  At the time he entered into the business relationship with E&Y that is 
the subject of this proceeding, Thompson had recently completed a two-year project involving 
the production of eight CDs of prominent-leader interviews for his first customer for such an 
effort.  Thompson served on Company A’s board from March 2000 through May 4, 2004, and on 
its Audit Committee from March 2000 until August 2003.  Thompson served on Company B’s 
board from March 2000 until September 10, 2003; and on Company C’s board from February 
26, 2004 until May 10, 2004. 

C.     Relevant Issuers 

       At all relevant times, Company A’s common stock was registered with the Commission 
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and traded on the New York Stock Exchange, and 
its fiscal year has ended on the last day of February.  E&Y served as Company A’s auditor from 
August 1994 through February 2005. 

       At all relevant times, Company B’s common stock was registered with the Commission 
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and traded on the New York Stock Exchange, and 

1 
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                              2 

---------------------Page 3---------------------

its fiscal year has ended on the last day of April.  E&Y has served as Company B’s auditor since 
April 2002. 

       At all relevant times, Company C’s common stock was registered with the Commission 
pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and traded on the NASDAQ National Market, and 
its fiscal year has ended on the last day of December.  E&Y served as Company C’s auditor from 
May 2002 until May 2007. 

D.     The Audit Firm 

       Ernst & Young LLP (“E&Y”) is a professional services firm, headquartered in New 
York City, with offices located throughout the United States.  At all relevant times and 
continuing to the present, E&Y has provided auditing, consulting, and tax services to a variety of 
companies, including companies whose securities are registered with the Commission and trade 
in the U.S. markets. 

E.     FACTS 

       1.     The Relationship Between Respondent and E&Y 

       In mid-October 2002, Thompson entered into the business relationship with E&Y that is 
the subject of this proceeding.  At the time Thompson entered into this relationship, he should 
have known that (i) Company A and Company B were then employing E&Y as their outside 
auditor; (ii) as a Company A and Company B director he was called upon, at least annually, to 
sign each company’s annual report stating its auditor was independent, to vote on the retention of 
each company’s auditor, and to vote on the inclusion of auditor-retention recommendations in 
proxy solicitations to each company’s shareholders; and (iii) as a member of Company A’s audit 
committee, Thompson shared direct responsibility, under Company A’s Audit Committee 
Charter, “for the appointment … compensation and oversight … of the [company’s] independent 
auditor.”  See Appendix A to Company A’s May 20, 2003 proxy statement. 

       The relationship entailed the creation of a series of audio CDs of interviews of corporate 
CEOs, with each CD featuring a particular industry or industry sector.  Thompson appeared as 
host on each CD; on each CD various E&Y partners, with Thompson’s coaching and assistance, 
conducted interviews of the executives.  (None of the E&Y partners appearing on the CDs 
performed any work on E&Y’s Company A, Company B or Company C audit engagements.)  
The CDs were provided to prospective E&Y audit and non-audit clients for business 
development purposes.  Each CD’s packaging included both E&Y’s and Thompson’s proprietary 
logos and website addresses.  Each CD’s packaging also listed the name, title and contact 
information for E&Y personnel within the relevant industry or industry sector.  Each CD 
contained statements reflecting that it was the product of collaboration between Thompson and 
E&Y.  During the course of the relationship, E&Y and Thompson produced a total of seven 
completed CDs, in five separate audiobooks; and E&Y paid Thompson compensation of 
$377,500.  Also during the course of the relationship, Thompson’s director compensation from 
Company A, Company B and Company C totaled $100,662.33. 

                                              3 

---------------------Page 4---------------------

       2.	    Insufficient Communication about the Nature of the Relationship to the 
 Issuers’              Boards 

       As a member of three boards of directors, Thompson was required to complete annual 
Director and Officer (“D&O”) questionnaires for use in compiling their annual reports and proxy 
statements.  Each of these questionnaires included queries concerning the nature of any 
relationships between Thompson and E&Y.  Thompson did not fully furnish the details of his 
relationship with E&Y in response to these items. 

       During the course of the relationship, Thompson took part in votes to retain E&Y as each 
company’s outside auditor and to recommend the same to shareholders in annual proxy 
solicitations.  At the time he cast these votes, Thompson did not disclose his business 
relationship with E&Y, and the proxy solicitations likewise did not disclose the relationship.  As 
a board member of Company A and Company B, Thompson signed annual reports on Form 10-K 
stating that each company’s auditor was independent.  As an Audit Committee member of 
Company A, Thompson shared responsibility, under Company A’s Audit Committee Charter, for 
the “appointment … compensation and oversight” of the company’s outside auditor.  See 
Appendix A to Company A’s May 20, 2003 proxy statement.  Company A’s proxy statement 
filed May 20, 2003 stated that the Audit Committee had appointed E&Y as the company’s 
independent auditor and that the Board recommended that shareholders ratify that appointment.  

       In February 2004, Thompson joined Company C’s board of directors.  Thompson did not 
complete or return the D&O questionnaire he received from Company C until he resigned from 
its Board in May 2004.  While a director, Thompson cast a vote to include in Company C’s 
annual proxy solicitation to shareholders the recommendation that E&Y be retained as its outside 
auditor for the company’s next fiscal year.  Thompson did not disclose his business relationship 
with E&Y; Company C’s subsequently filed proxy statement likewise did not disclose it. 

F.	    LEGAL ANALYSIS 

       1.	    Impairment of E&Y’s Independence As Auditor 

       The auditor independence rules generally prohibit all direct, and all material indirect, 
business relationships between auditors and their audit clients, including audit-client directors 
like Thompson.  See Rule 2-01(c)(3) of Regulation S-X. 2
                                                          The Thompson/E&Y relationship that 

2 
       Rule 2-01(c)(3) provides:  

       An accountant is not independent if, at any point during the audit and professional 
       engagement period, the accounting firm or any covered person in the firm has any direct 
       or material indirect business relationship with an audit client, or with persons associated 
       with the audit client in a decision-making capacity, such as an audit client’s officers, 
       directors, or substantial stockholders.  The relationships described in this paragraph do 
       not include a relationship in which the accounting firm or covered person in the firm 
       provides professional services to an audit client or is a consumer in the ordinary course 
       of business. 

                                               4 

---------------------Page 5---------------------

is the subject of this proceeding falls within this general prohibition.  The prohibition’s sole 
exception -- for “consumer in the ordinary course of business” relationships -- is available only 
where a relationship is both “in the ordinary course of business” for both parties, and at least one 
of the parties is acting as a “consumer.”  Id.; see also Commission Letter dated 2/14/89, 
responding to 3/29/88 Petition by Arthur Andersen & Co. and Others (available at:  
http://www.sec.gov/info/accountants/noaction/aaartan1.htm) (hereinafter the “1989 Response”) 
at 7-8.  The 1989 Response identifies features of business relationships that give rise to an 
unacceptable “mutuality of interest” between an auditor and an audit client, where “the 
advancement of the auditor’s interest would, to some extent, be dependent upon the client,” 
which is inconsistent with the essential requirement that the appearance of independence be 
maintained.  Here, based on the facts detailed above, the relationship’s collaborative nature gave 
it the very kind of “mutuality of interest” that the 1989 Response proscribes.  The CDs were joint 
products; and the furtherance of their business development aims hinged upon third parties 
reviewing and listening to, and thereby being the end-users of, those CDs.  Thompson’s past 
experience with closely similar ventures was limited to just one prior customer.  In summary, 
Thompson’s relationship with E&Y does not qualify for the consumer in the ordinary course of 
business exception because, while both of the exception’s prongs must be satisfied, it satisfied 
neither. 

       2.      The Issuer Reporting Violations 

       Each time non-independent audit reports were filed with Company A’s and Company B’s 
annual reports and proxy statements, the issuer violated federal securities statutes and rules 
requiring that those filings include independently audited financials.  See Exchange Act §§ 13(a) 
and 14(a) and Rules 13a-1 and 14a-3 thereunder (requiring annual reports and proxy statements 
to include independently audited financials).  With respect to the proxy statements, each time 
Company A, Company B and Company C issued proxy solicitations to shareholders 
recommending E&Y’s retention as auditor without disclosing that one of the directors favoring 
the recommendation had a business relationship with E&Y, the issuer violated Exchange Act 
Section 14(a) and Rule 14a-9-thereunder.  See Wilson v. Great American Industries, Inc., 855 
F.2d 987, 993-94 (2d Cir. 1988) (failure to disclose, in proxy statement recommending 
shareholder approval of company’s sale, that a director recommending the transaction had a 
“long-standing business relationship” with individuals controlling the acquiring company, 
violated Exchange Act Section 14(a) and Rule 14a-9 thereunder); accord Kas v. Financial 
General Bankshares, Inc., 796 F.2d 508, 515 (D.C. Cir. 1986) (directors’ relationship with a 
party to a proposed transaction “would in all probability have assumed actual significance in the 
deliberations of a reasonable shareholder,” so proxy soliciting shareholder approval of that 
transaction had to disclose the relationship, to give shareholders “a context to enable [them] to 
evaluate [the directors’] endorsement”). 

Commission statements interpreting Rule 2-01(c)(3) are found in the Commission’s Codification of 
Financial Reporting Policies (“Codification”) at Section 6.02.02.e. (available at 7 Fed. Sec. L. Rep. 
(CCH) ¶ 73,272). 

                                                5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       3.     Respondent’s Liability for Causing the Reporting Violations 

       Liability for causing reporting violations requires findings that (1) a primary violation 
occurred; (2) an act or omission by the respondent contributed to the violation; and (3) the 
respondent knew, or should have known, that his or her conduct would contribute to the 
violation.  Gateway Int'l Holdings, Inc., Exchange Act Rel. No. 53907 (May 31, 2006), 88 SEC 
Docket 430, 444; Erik W. Chan, 77 SEC Docket 851, 859-60 (Apr. 4, 2002).  Here, based on the 
facts detailed above, Thompson was a cause of each issuer’s resulting reporting violations.  

                                             IV. 

       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent Thompson was a cause of 
Company A’s and Company B’s violations of Exchange Act Sections 13(a) and 14(a) and Rules 
13a-1 and 14a-3 thereunder, and was a cause of Company A’s, Company B’s and Company C’s 
violations of Exchange Act Section 14(a) and Rule 14a-9 thereunder. 

                                              V. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Thompson’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that Respondent Thompson 
shall cease and desist from causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a) and 
14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and Rules 13a-1, 14a-3 and 14a-9 thereunder; 

       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent Thompson shall, within ten (10) days of 
the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement of $100,662.33 and prejudgment interest of 
$23,254.94, for a total of $123,917.27, to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such 
payment shall be: (A) made by United States postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s 
check or bank money order; (B) made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission; (C) 
hand-delivered or mailed to the Office of Financial Management, Securities and Exchange 
Commission, Operations Center, 6432 General Green Way, Stop 0-3, Alexandria, VA 22312; 
and (D) submitted under cover letter that identifies Thompson as a Respondent in these 
proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings, a copy of which cover letter and money 
order or check shall be sent to J. Lee Buck, II, Deputy Assistant Director, Division of 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549­
5631. 

By the Commission. 

 Florence                                                E. Harmon 
 Acting                                                Secretary 

                                              6 

