---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED                                STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                          the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 59423 / February 19, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 2939 / February 19, 2009  
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-13374 
                                            
                                              : 
                                           :       
                                           :        
       In the Matter of                    :      ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                             :    PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
              DAVID J. LUBBEN,             :      102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                             :    PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
              Respondent.                  :      IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                       : 
                                                       : 
____________________________________ :              
                                                   
 
                                              I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against David J. 
Lubben (“Respondent” or “Lubben”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1 
           
                                                

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any attorney . . . who has been 
by name: (A) permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or 
her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III. 3. below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
        
              1.      Lubben, age fifty-six (56), is and has been an attorney licensed to practice in  
the State of Minnesota.  From 1996 until late 2006, he served as General Counsel to UnitedHealth 
Group Inc. (“UnitedHealth”). 
        
              2.      UnitedHealth is and was, at all relevant times, a Minnesota corporation with  
its principal place of business in Minnetonka, Minnesota.  UnitedHealth is  a diversified health and 
well-being company offering a variety of insurance and other products and services to  
approximately 70 million individuals through six operating businesses.  UnitedHealth’s securities 
are registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of  
1934 (“Exchange Act”) and are listed on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 
              3.      On January 23, 2009, a final judgment was entere d against Respondent in 
the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. David J. Lubben, 08-cv-6454, in 
the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota.  The final judgment permanently 
enjoined Lubben from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities 
Act”) and Sections 10(b), 13(b)(5), 14(a) and 16(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1, 
14a-9 and 16a-3 thereunder, and from aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 
13(b)(2)(B) and 16(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, 13a-13 and 16a-3  
thereunder.  The final judgment also ordered that Lubben is liable for $1,403,310 in disgorgement, 
plus $347,211 in prejudgment interest, and a $575,000 civil money penalty.  
 
               4.     The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Lubben 
 participated in a stock options backdating scheme at UnitedHealth, in which hindsight was used 
 to pick advantageous grant dates for the Company’s nonqualified stock options, which dates 
 corresponded to dates of historically low annual or quarterly closing prices for UnitedHealth’s 
 common stock.  The complaint further alleged that various individuals, including Lubben or 
 others acting at his direction, created false or misleading Company records indicating that the 
 grants had occurred on the earlier dates when the Company’s stock price  had been at a low.  
 According to the complaint, because of the undisclosed backdating, for fiscal years 1996 through 

                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 2005, UnitedHealth filed with the Commission and disseminated to investors quarterly and 
 annual reports, proxy statements and registration statements that Lubben knew, or was reckless 
 in not knowing, contained or incorporated by reference materially false and misleading 
 statements pertaining to the true grant dates of UnitedHealth options and materially false and 
 misleading financial statements, which underreported compensation expenses.            In addition, the  
 complaint alleged that Lubben received and exercised backdated options on shares of UnitedHealth         
 stock, and thus personally benefited from the backdating.    
 
                                                    IV. 
                                                       
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Lubben’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
                Lubben is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an attorney for three (3) years. Furthermore, before appearing and resuming practice before  
the Commission, Lubben must submit an affidavit to the Commission’s Office of General 
Counsel truthfully stating, under penalty of perjury, that he has complied with the Order; that 
he is not the subject of any suspension or disbarment as an attorney by a court of the United 
States or of any state, territory, district, commonwealth, or possession; and that he has not 
been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude as set forth in Rule          
102(e)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                            M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                      

                                                     3
  
