---------------------Page 1---------------------

                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
 before                                            the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 63265 / November 5, 2010 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3211 / November 5, 2010 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14114  
                                              
      :  
 :                                                   
 :                                                    
       In the Matter of                      :             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                   :             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
                         Leslie L. Jackson, CPA,         :             102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                   :             PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
            Respondent.                  :     IMPO        SING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                          :      
                                          :      
____________________________________ :              
 
 
                                                I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Leslie 
L. Jackson (“Respondent” or “Jackson”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules 
of Practice.1
               
                                                  

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
                     1.           Jackson, age 45, has been a certified public accountant licensed to practice in 
the State of Texas but did not renew her license in December 2008.  She served as Dell Inc.’s 
(“Dell”) Director of Financial Reporting from October 2001 to June 2003, Corporate Assistant 
Controller from June 2003 to January 2005, and Director of Global Finance Systems from January 
2005 until she left Dell in 2008.   
        
                     2.           Dell was, at all relevant times, a Delaware corporation with its principal 
place of business in Round Rock, Texas.  Dell is engaged in the business of providing electronic 
products, including mobility products, desktop PCs, software, peripherals, servers, networking 
equipment, and storage.  Dell also offers services, including infrastructure technology, consulting 
and applications, and business process services.  At all relevant times, Dell’s common stock was 
registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Exchange Act”), and was quoted on the NASDAQ National Market System. 
 
                     3.           On October 13, 2010, a final judgment was entered against Jackson, 
permanently enjoining her, by consent, from future violations of Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange 
Act and Rules 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder, and from aiding and abetting violations of Sections 
13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 
thereunder, in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Dell Inc., et al., 
Civil Action Number 1:10-cv-01245-RJL, in the United States District Court for the District of 
Columbia. 
 
                           4.           The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Dell 
 engaged in improper accounting which resulted in the company filing materially false and 
 misleading financial statements in its annual reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal years ended 
 February 1, 2002, January 31, 2003, January 30, 2004, and January 28, 2005, and in the 
 company’s quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the first three quarters of fiscal years 2002 
 through 2004 and for the first two quarters of 2005.  The Complaint alleged that Jackson 
 knowingly circumvented or failed to implement Dell’s system of internal accounting controls 

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 and falsified Dell’s books, records, or accounts.  The Complaint also alleged that Jackson aided 
 and abetted improper accounting practices that materially misstated Dell’s annual and quarterly 
 financial statements.  The Complaint alleged that Dell received substantial assistance in 
 connection with the corporate contingencies from Jackson, and that Jackson knew or was 
 reckless in not knowing that Dell improperly maintained excess reserves in the corporate 
 contingencies for use in future periods.  The Complaint also alleged that Jackson reviewed and 
 approved the Forms 10-K and 10-Q that materially misstated Dell’s financial results because of 
 Dell’s improper accounting for the corporate contingencies.  The Complaint also alleged that 
 Jackson made material misrepresentations to Dell’s independent auditors.   
 
                                                 IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Jackson’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
              A.          Jackson is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
              B.          After 3 years from the date of this Order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider her reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such an 
application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in her practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company for 
which she works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as she practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                                         (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which she is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Respondent, or the registered                         public accounting firm with which she 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of 
or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision;                              

   (c) Respondent has resolved all di                         sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
                                                  3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
   (d) Respondent acknowledges her                                          responsibility, as long as Respondent 
appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
      
              C.          The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that her state CPA license is current 
and she has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, 
the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review 
may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters 
relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear 
or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth M. Murphy 
       Secretary 

                                                             4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                         Service List 
 
              Rule 141 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or another 
duly authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order Instituting 
Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), on the Respondent and her legal 
agent. 
 
              The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to 
notice: 
 
Honorable Brenda P. Murray 
Chief Administrative Law Judge 
Securities and Exchange Commission 
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-2557 
 
Jonathan M. Jacobs, Esq. 
Division of Enforcement 
Securities and Exchange Commission 
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-5561 
 
Ms. Leslie L. Jackson 
c/o Samuel J. Winer, Esq. 
Foley & Lardner LLP 
Washington Harbour 
3000 K Street, N.W., Suite 500 
Washington, DC 20007-5143 
 
Samuel J. Winer, Esq. 
Foley & Lardner LLP 
Washington Harbour 
3000 K Street, N.W., Suite 500 
Washington, DC 20007-5143  
(Counsel for Leslie L. Jackson) 
 

                                              5 
