---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                          Before the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 68449 / December 17, 2012 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3431 / December 17, 2012 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-15133 
 
                                                    ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                    ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS               
In the Matter of                                    PURSUANT TO SECTION 4C OF THE 
                                                    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
       J. Brian Laib, CPA,                          AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                    COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
Respondent.                                         MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                                    REMEDIAL SANCTIONS  
 
                                                    
 
                                               I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against J. Brian Laib, CPA (“Respondent” 
or “Laib”) pursuant to Section 4C1
                                  of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and 
Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.2
                                                         
                                                 
                                                 
1
       Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  
       The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the privilege 
of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the 
requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to have engaged in 
unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the 
violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
2
       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
       The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before 
it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper profe ssional conduct. 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                  
                                                  
                                                II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 4C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and 
Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds   3
                                                                                  that:  
 
A.     SUMMARY 
 
       1.      This matter involves improper professional conduct by J. Brian Laib in connection 
with audits conducted by Murrell Hall, McIntosh & Co. PLLP    and Eide Bailly LLP of the financial 
statements of Life Partners Holdings, Inc. (“Life Partners” or the “Company”) for fiscal years 
ended February 28, 2005 through 2009.  Laib failed to  conduct Murrell Hall’s fiscal year 2005 
through 2008 audits and Eide Bailly’s fiscal year 2009 audit in accordance with Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) standards,     4
                                                      and Life Partners’ fiscal year 2006 through 
2009 financial statements did not present fairly, in all material respects, Life Partners’ financial 
position, operating results, and cash flows in conformity with generally accepted accounting 
principles (“GAAP”). 

       2.      On January 3, 2012, the Commission filed a complaint against Life Partners and 
three of its senior executives for their involvement in a fraudulent disclosure and accounting 
scheme involving life settlements.5
                                    The  Commission alleges, in part, that Life Partners materially 
misstated net income from fiscal year 2007 through the third quarter of fiscal year 2011 by 
prematurely recognizing revenues and understating impairment expense related to its investments 
in life insurance policies.  The Commission also alleges that Life Partners backdated certain 
transactional documents to hide the Company’s premature revenue recognition from its auditors 
from 2004 through 2010. 

                                                 
3
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   
4
       Citations to PCAOB Standards and Rules refer to standards and rules in effect at the time of the conduct 
discussed herein. 
5
       See Litigation Release No. 22219, January 4, 2012. 
                                                 2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

B.     RESPONDENT 
 
              J. Brian Laib, 48, is a certified public accountant licensed in the state of 
Oklahoma.  From January 2005 to August 1, 2008, Laib was a partner with Murrell Hall, McIntosh 
& Co. PLLP, an accounting firm that was registered with the PCAOB.  Laib became a partner with 
Eide Bailly LLP, a PCAOB-registered accounting firm, on August 1, 2008, following Eide Bailly’s 
acquisition of Murrell Hall’s assets. 
 
C.     RELEVANT ENTITY 

       Life Partners Holdings, Inc. is a Texas corporation headquartered in Waco, Texas.  Life 
Partners’ common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the 
Exchange Act, and the Company is subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act.  
Since 2000, Life Partners’ common stock has traded on the NASDAQ exchange under the ticker 
symbol “LPHI.” 
 
D.     FACTS 
 
              Life Partners’ Revenue Recognition 

       1.     Life Partners brokers the sale of life insurance policies by policy owners to 
investors in the secondary market, in transactions referred to as “life settlements.”  Life Partners 
derives its revenues from the difference between the amounts investors pay to acquire an interest in 
a life settlement and the amounts for which policy owners agree to sell their policies. 

       2.     In a typical life settlement transaction brokered by the Company, a policy owner 
interested in selling his or her policy executes a “Seller Agreement,” which grants Life Partners an 
option to purchase the policy on behalf of investors at an agreed upon price.  The Company’s 
standard Seller Agreement defines the “Closing Date” as “the date upon which the consideration 
for the transaction described herein is transferred from the Escrow Agent to the Seller.”  Prior to 
the Closing Date, neither the policy owner nor Life Partners are contractually obligated to proceed 
with the sale, as each may rescind the agreement at any time and for any reason without incurring a 
penalty.  Additionally, during the 15-day period following the Closing Date (the “Rescission 
Period”), the policy owner has the option to rescind his or her agreement to sell the policy for any 
reason without penalty.  Moreover, death of the insured covered by the policy prior to or during the 
Rescission Period triggers an automatic rescission under the Seller Agreement (collectively, the 
“Rescission Rights”). 

       3.     Life Partners typically identifies potential investors in life settlements through its 
network of independent buyers’ agents.  Potential investors generally deposit funds with Life 
Partners’ escrow agent and deliver signed, but undated, “Policy Funding Agreements” to the 
Company in advance of identifying specific policies in which they intend to purchase an interest.  
The Policy Funding Agreement specifies the policy to be purchased, the acquisition price, and the 
escrow arrangements for receipt and disbursement of funds. 

                                               3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       4.     After receipt of the Policy Funding Agreement, the Seller Agreement, and the 
accompanying assignment documents, Life Partners forwards to the escrow agent the documents 
necessary for closing.  A life settlement transaction closes when the seller gets paid – i.e., on the 
Closing Date, as defined in the Seller Agreement. 

       5.     Rather than wait until the Closing Date to recognize revenues, Life Partners 
routinely recognized revenue as of the date listed on the Policy Funding Agreement.  This date 
purportedly represented the date the investor committed to purchase an interest in the policy; 
however, Life Partners routinely backdated Policy Funding Agreements and other transaction 
documents.  Additionally, the Company did not wait until it had identified investors to purchase 
100% of a policy to recognize revenue.  Instead, Life Partners recognized a pro rata portion of the 
total revenue it expected to earn when it completed the sale of 100% of the interests in that policy.  
According to Life Partners’ policy, if the Company had received Policy Funding Agreements from 
purchasers to acquire 2% of a policy and certain other transaction documents, the Company would 
recognize 2% of the total revenue anticipated from that life settlement transaction. 

       Applicable Authoritative Accounting Literature 

       6.     Under GAAP, revenue can be recognized only when it is both (i) realized or 
realizable and (ii) earned.  Revenue is “realized or realizable” when products or services (in this 
case, life settlements) are exchanged or readily convertible to known amounts of cash or claims to 
cash.  Revenues are “earned” when “the entity has substantially accomplished what it must do to 
be entitled to the benefits represented by the revenues” (See Financial Accounting Standards Board 
(“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 605-10-25, Revenue Recognition (also 
contained in FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts No. 5, Recognition and 
Measurement in Financial Statements of Business Enterprises, paragraphs 83(a) and 83(b)) and 
Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43, Restatement and Revision of Accounting Research Bulletins, 
Chapter 1A, Paragraph 1. 

       Life Partners’ Improper Revenue Recognition 

       7.     Life Partners’ revenue recognition policy is contrary to GAAP because the 
Company recognized revenues prior to being (i) realized or realizable and (ii) earned,  which 
occurred, at the earliest on the Closing Date.  Revenue is not realized or realizable before the 
Closing Date because Life Partners receives no cash, and has no claim to cash, until a life 
settlement is purchased by investors and the policy owner/seller is paid by the escrow agent, which 
occurs on the Closing Date.  Similarly, revenue is not earned before the Closing Date because the 
policy owner is not obligated to sell the policy to Life Partners prior to the Closing Date.  
Additionally, Life Partners’ revenues do not qualify as “earned” until such time as it fully brokers 
the sale of 100% of a policy.  Policy owners sell their policies in a single transaction under the 
Seller Agreement, not on a prorated basis, as Life Partners identifies investors interested in 
purchasing fractional interests in the policy.  Consequently, after the Company identifies one or 
more interested investors in a given policy, Life Partners has substantial continuing obligations to 
identify additional investors sufficient to purchase any unsold interests in the policy before it 
becomes entitled to any portion of the proceeds from the sale.  Life Partners is not entitled to any 

                                               4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

proceeds from the sale until investors purchase 100% of a policy, which does not happen until the 
Closing Date, at the earliest. 

       Life Partners’ Restatement 

       8.     In its Form 10-K filed on November 22, 2011for its fiscal year ended February  28, 
2011, Life Partners restated its financial statements for fiscal years 2007 through 2010 and for the 
first three quarters of 2011 to correct accounting errors related to revenue recognition, accounts 
receivable, impairment of investments in Company-owned policies, accrued liabilities, and the 
related tax impact.  The  Company’s restatement of revenues resulted from changing the date of 
revenue recognition from the date that purchasers commit to buy policies to the date that policy 
closings are funded, i.e., the Closing Date. 

       Audits of Life Partners Fiscal Year 2005 through 2009 Financial Statements 

       9.     Laib served as the engagement partner and supervised and conducted Murrell Hall’s 
fiscal year 2005 through 2008 audits and Eide Bailly’s fiscal year 2009 audit of Life Partners’ 
financial statements. 

       10.    An auditor is required to plan and perform the audit “to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether caused by error 
or fraud” (See PCAOB Auditing Standards, Responsibilities and Functions of the Independent 
Auditor, AU § 110.02).  “The auditor’s response to the assessment of the risks of material 
misstatement due to fraud involves the application of professional skepticism in gathering and 
evaluating audit evidence.”  (See PCAOB Auditing Standards, Consideration of Fraud in a 
Financial Statement Audit AU § 316.46). 6
                                           “Professional skepticism is an attitude that includes a 
questioning mind and a critical assessment of audit evidence” (See PCAOB Auditing Standards, 
Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit AU § 316.13).  The auditor’s response 
should be general, by, for example, considering management’s selection and application of 
significant accounting principles and whether management’s accounting policies are being applied 
in an inappropriate manner to create a material misstatement of the financial statements, and 
specific, by impacting the nature, timing, and extent of auditing procedures to address identified 
risks, including the risk of management override of controls (See AU § 316.48-67). 

       11.    In connection with the 2005 audit, Laib identified risks of material misstatements 
due to fraud but failed to maintain an attitude of professional skepticism in assessing such risks and 
failed to respond appropriately to such risks related to revenue recognition.  For example, in 
planning the 2005 audit, Murrell Hall concluded that management was very aggressive in 
recording revenue based, in part, on identified business and fraud risk factors.  Yet, Murrell Hall’s 
work papers do no document   the auditor’s evaluation of whether management’s revenue 
recognition policies comply with GAAP or any changes to planned procedures to address 
identified fraud risks.  Laib also became aware during planning the 2005 audit that a member of 
management had alleg  ed to Murrell Hall that the dates on Policy Funding Agreements had been 
changed in order to process life settlement transactions in another period.  Yet again, Murrell 

                                                 
6
       See also PCAOB Auditing Standards, Due Professional Care in the Performance of Work, AU §230.07.  
                                                5  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

Hall’s work papers document no procedures performed to address the identified risk of 
management override of controls or any inquiries of other members of management or any 
discussions with the audit committee.  Instead, Murrell Hall’s work papers document only that it 
was unable to verify the practice.  Murrell Hall’s 2006 audit work papers contain identical 
documentation.  Despite management’s efforts to obstruct Laib by concealing improper revenue 
recognition practices (i.e., backdating documents), had he appropriately planned and performed 
Murrell Hall’s audits, Laib may have discovered that Life Partners prematurely recognized 
revenue. 

       12.    An auditor is to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to afford a reasonable 
basis for an opinion regarding the financial statements under audit (See PCAOB Auditing 
Standards, Evidential Matter, AU § 326.01).  Although evidential matter includes representations 
from management, management’s representations are not a substitute for performing sufficient 
auditing procedures to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the financial statements 
under audit (See PCAOB Auditing   Standards, Management Representations          , AU § 333.02).  The 
nature, timing, and extent of the procedures to be applied, as well as the validity and sufficiency of 
required evidence, depend on the circumstances and the auditor’s judgment (See PCAOB Auditing 
Standards, AU § 326.13 and .21-22).  With respect to such judgment , however, the procedures 
adopted should be adequate to obtain evidential matter sufficient for the auditor to form 
conclusions concerning the validity of the individual assertions embodied in the components of 
financial statements (See PCAOB Auditing Stan dards, AU § 326.13).  Furthermore, due 
professional care requires the auditor to exercise professional skepticism, which requires the 
auditor to conduct the engagement with a mindset that recognizes the possibility that a material 
misstatement due to fraud could be present and an ongoing questioning of whether the information 
and evidence obtained suggests that a material misstatement due to fraud has occurred (See 
PCAOB Auditing Standards, AU § 316.13).  In developing his or her opinion, the auditor should 
consider relevant evidential matter regardless of whether it appears to corroborate or to contradict 
the assertions in the financial statements (See PCAOB Auditing Standards, AU § 326.25) . 

       13.    Murrell Hall and Eide Bailly’s 2005 through 2009 audit work papers document 
certain testing that was designed to confirm the existence, completeness, and accuracy of signed 
transaction documents, including Sales Agreements, Policy Funding Agreements, and funding 
status reports that purportedly reflected investor commitments to purchase policies prior to period-
end.  Laib, nonetheless, failed to evaluate whether Life Partners’ revenue recognition policy was in 
accordance with GAAP.  Laib understood that Life Partners recognized revenues prior to the 
Closing Date.  When he initially became involved with the Life Partners’ engagement, Laib recalls 
looking at example transactional files to get familiar with documents related to life settlement 
transactions.  Laib, however, did not read, and did not direct an assistant to read, the transactional 
documents in sufficient detail to identify and document contractual provisions relevant to the 
timing of revenue recognition under GAAP.  Had Laib done so, he would have identified 
contractual provisions that contradict management’s representations as to when revenue can be 
recognized.  In particular, he would have discovered the Seller Agreement was nonbinding on both 
the seller and the Company and he would have identified the seller’s Rescission Rights.  
Accordingly, Laib would have known a life settlement is not legally sold prior to the Closing Date 
and that the Company’s revenue recognition policy was not consistent with GAAP.  Additionally, 
Laib also failed to notice or ignored indications in Murrell Hall’s and Eide Bailly’s work papers 
                                               6  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

that should have raised questions about Life Partners’ revenue recognition policies.  Murrell Hall’s 
and Eide Bailly’s work papers include schedules detailing, by month, each life settlement 
transaction which Life Partners recognized revenue.  The schedules include adjustments for 
rescissions and other items to reconcile the total anticipated revenue for each transaction to the 
revenue the Company actually recorded for each month, including adjustments related to 
rescissions of life settlement for which Life Partners had recognized revenues in prior quarters.  
There is no documentation that Laib questioned the circumstances of the rescissions or whether 
rescissions contradicted management’s representation concerning the timing of revenue 
recognition.7
             

       14.     Laib did not consider or respond to adequately the possibility of illegal acts in 
connection with the 2005 through the 2009 audits (See PCAOB Auditing Standards, AU § 317, 
Illegal Acts by Clients).  Specifically, Laib reviewed Murrell Hall and Eide Bailly work papers 
documenting the existence of loans to certain executive officers; however, he failed to consider 
whether such loans violated Section 13(k) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which prohibits 
any issuer to make, directly or indirectly, “personal loans” to any executive officer. 

       15.     PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 3, Audit Documentation, requires, in part, that 
“documentation must contain sufficient information to enable an experienced auditor, having no 
previous connection with the engagement: (a) to understand the nature, timing, extent, and results 
of the procedures performed, evidence obtained, and conclusions reached, and (b) to determine 
who performed the work and the date such work was completed as well as the person who 
reviewed the work and the date of such review”        (See PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 3, paragraph 
6).  Laib failed to adequately document the nature, timing, and extent of procedures performed, the 
evidence obtained, and the underlying rationale for certain conclusions reached in connection with 
the 2005 through 2009 audits.  The 2005 through 2009 audit work papers fail to adequately 
document consideration as to whether revenues were recognized in accordance with GAAP, 
whether receivables from officers were prohibited transactions under Section 13(k) of the 
Exchange Act of 1934, or whether receivables from officers should be disclosed as related party 
transactions. 

E.      VIOLATIONS 

       Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Section 4C of the Exchange 
Act 

       16.     Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Section 4C of the 
Exchange Act authorize the Commission to censure or deny, temporarily or permanently, the 
privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission to accountants who are found to have 
engaged in improper professional   conduct.  Under Rule 102(e)(1)(iv), the term “improper 
professional conduct” means, in part, “repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting 
                                                 
7
       Murrell Hall and Eide Bailly’s work papers identify one to five rescissions per year of the approximately 
200 life settlement transactions reported as being closed in each of fiscal years 2005 through 2009.  As a result of 
the rescissions, Life Partner’s quarterly revenues were misstated in 15 of the 20  quarters during this period, 
including three quarters in which revenues, net of brokerage fees, were misstated in excess of 10%, as Life Partners 
transitioned to policies with larger face amounts which generate larger net revenues per transaction.  
                                                 7  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

in a violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice 
before the Commission.” 

       17.    Laib’s conduct during Murrell Hall’s fiscal year 2005 through 2008 audit 
engagements and Eide Bailly’s fiscal year 2009 audit engagement is unreasonable and fail s to 
conform to applicable professional standards.  Laib failed to ( i) obtain s ufficient competent 
evidential matter with respect to revenues and cost of revenues; (ii) ) comply with PCAOB 
Auditing Standards, AU § 317, Illegal Acts by Clients      , with respect to certain loans to executive 
officers; and (iii) comply  with PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 3, Audit Documentation. 

F.     FINDINGS 
 

       18.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Laib engaged in improper 
professional conduct pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) and 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.     

                                              IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.     Laib is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
       B.     After three years from the date of this Order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his  practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
      
              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                      (a)    Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the PCAOB  in accordance w ith the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 
and such registration continues to be effective; 
 

                                                8  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

                      (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB   and that inspection did not identify any 
criticisms of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that 
would indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
 

                      (c)    Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the PCAOB   , 
and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the PCAOB     (other 
than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                      (d)    Respondent acknowledges his     responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the PCAOB     , including, but not limited to, 
all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
control standards.   
 
       D.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his  state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 
        
 
        
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                    Secretary 
 

                                                9  
