---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  

                                         Before the 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 67164 / June 8, 2012 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3388 / June 8, 2012 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-13007 

                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of 
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Kenneth M. Avery, CPA 
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION  
                          
        

       On April 14, 2008, Kenneth M. Avery, CPA (“Avery”) was denied the privilege of 
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against Avery pursuant to Rule 
102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                                   This order is issued in response to Avery’s 
application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant 
responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed with the 
Commission. 

       The Commission found that Avery, an audit partner with the public accounting firm  
Arthur Andersen LLP (“Andersen”), engaged in improper professional conduct in connection 
with the audit of the financial statements of WorldCom, Inc. (“WorldCom”) for its fiscal year 
ended December 31, 2001.  During 2001, WorldCom improperly removed approximately $3 
billion in line cost expenses from its income statement by improperly and fraudulently 
characterizing these expenses as “assets” on its balance sheet.  Avery failed to comply with 
Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (“GAAS”) by unreasonably: (i) failing to exercise due 
professional care in the planning and performance of the audit; (ii) failing to exercise an attitude  
of professional skepticism throughout the audit; (iii) failing to obtain sufficient evidential matter 
to afford a reasonable basis for Andersen’s opinion regarding WorldCom’s financial statements; 
(iv) failing to consider expanding the extent of the audit procedures applied, applying procedures 
closer to or as of year end, particularly in critical audit areas, or modifying the nature of 
                                                 
1 
 See  Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2809 dated April 14, 2008.  Avery was permitted, pursuant                     
to the order, to apply for reinstatement after three years upon making certain showings.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                     

procedures to obtain more persuasive evidence, in light of the significant risks of material 
misstatement that existed at WorldCom; (v) failing to plan and perform the audit to obtain 
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements were free of material misstatement, 
whether caused by error or fraud; and (vi) issuing an audit report that falsely stated that the audit 
was conducted in accordance with GAAS and that WorldCom’s financial statements were 
presented in conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.      

       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Avery 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some  other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Avery is not, at this time, seeking to appear 
or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume  
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be      
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Avery’s 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order.  

       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific.  

       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Avery, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the April 14, 2008 order suspending 
him from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no information 
has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, professional 
conduct, or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis for adverse 
action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, and that 
Avery, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of any 
company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in his 
practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly,  

        
        
        

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3)  
of this section may be made at any time, and the applic ant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated                         
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i).                        
 

                                                 2
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                               

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice that 
Kenneth M. Avery, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                            
                                            
                                           Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                           Secretary 

                                              3
 
