---------------------Page 1---------------------

                 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE  COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C.

SECURITIES EXCHANGE  ACT OF 1934
Rel. No. 68431 /December 13, 2012

ACCOUNTING  AND AUDITING  ENFORCEMENT
Rel. No. 3427 /December 13, 2012

Admin. Proc. File No. 3-13797

              In the Matter of the Application of

                WENDY  MCNEELEY,  CPA
                 c/o Robert L. Michels, Esq.
                  Winston & Strawn LLP
                      35 Wacker Dr.
                    Chicago, IL 60601

OPINION OF THE COMMISSION

     102(e) PROCEEDING

           Grounds for Remedial Action

                Improper Professional Conduct

     Certified public accountant acting as audit manager engaged in improper professional
     conduct in the audit of the financial statements of a private company and a related fund.
     Held, it is in the public interest to deny the accountant the privilege of appearing or
     practicing before the Commission for six months.

APPEARANCES:

     Robert L. Michels, Scott P. Glauberman, and J. Malcolm Cox, of Winston & Strawn LLP,
for Wendy McNeeley.

     Andrea Wood and Robert Moye, for the Division of Enforcement.

Appeal filed: February 11, 2011
Last brief received: May 2, 2011
Oral Argument: November 2, 2011
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                    2

                                   I.

     Wendy McNeeley, a licensed certified public accountant and former audit manager at
Ernst &Young ("E&Y"), appeals from the decision of an administrative law judge. The law
judge found that McNeeley engaged in improper professional conduct as defined in the
Commission's Rule of Practice 102(e)' while serving as the audit manager during E&Y's audit of
AA Capital Partners, Inc. ("AA Capital"), a registered investment adviser, and AA Capital Equity
Fund, L.P. (the "Equity Fund") for the year ended December 31, 2004. The law judge found that
McNeeley's improper professional conduct was the result of a single instance of highly
unreasonable conduct that resulted in a violation of generally accepted auditing
standards ("GAAS") in circumstances in which McNeeley knew, or should have known, that
heightened scrutiny was warranted.2 The law judge determined that, because of this conduct,
McNeeley should be denied the privilege of appearing or practicing as an accountant before the
Commission for one year. We base our findings on an independent review of the record, except
for findings that the parties do not challenge on appeal.

                                   II.

A.   AA  Capital and its Affiliates

     This matter involves McNeeley's audit of a series of transactions through which AA
Capital transferred approximately $1.9 million from client trust accounts to its president and co-
founder, John Orecchio, purportedly to pay a tax assessment by the Internal Revenue Service. At
the time of the audit, AA Capital was headquartered in Chicago, Illinois, and co-owned, equally,
by Orecchio and his business partner, Paul Oliver, Jr. In addition to being president, Orecchio
served as AA Capital's director and secretary and exercised day-to-day management and control
over AA Capital. Oliver served as AA Capital's chairman and treasurer. AA Capital's chief
financial officer and chief compliance officer was Mary Beth Stevens, who was responsible for
AA Capital's entire accounting function.3

      AA Capital had several affiliated private equity funds into which AA Capital's clients
invested money. The largest of these funds was the Equity Fund, which had approximately $131
million in assets under management as of December 31, 2004. The Equity Fund was governed
by an Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement (the "Partnership Agreement"),
which gave the Equity Fund's general partner, AA Private Equity Investors Management, LLC

           17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(1)(ii).

           GARS  are standards of conduct relating to how auditors should perform an audit.
See SEC v. Arthur Young & Co., 590 F.2d 785, 788 n.2, 789 n.4 (9th Cir. 1979). GARS are
generally described in the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants ("AICPA")
Codification of Statements of Auditing Standards, hereinafter cited as "AU § _."

           None of AA Capital's employees testified at the hearing.
---------------------Page 3---------------------

("AA Investors Management LLC"), control over the Equity Fund. Orecchio and Oliver each
owned twenty percent of the general partner. The Equity Fund's limited partners were three
pension funds, which had their investment commitments deposited into separate bank trust
accounts ("Investor Trust Accounts") in the name of each investor. The Equity Fund could call
capital from the Investor Trust Accounts for three primary purposes: (i) to make investments;
(ii) to pay management fees; or (iii) to pay overhead expenses.

B.    E&Y's Audits

      E&Y became AA Capital's auditors in 2002, but in 2004, became concerned about
whether it had the resources to staff those engagements. This concern caused some delay, but
E&Y  eventually agreed to audit AA Capital and its affiliated funds for the fiscal years ended
December 31, 2003 and 2004. Because of the delay, however, E&Y had to conduct the 2003 and
2004 audits concurrently. AA Capital also requested a June 30, 2005 deadline so that investors
 would have the financial statements necessary to complete their tax filings. The deadline
required E&Y to conduct ten audits simultaneously by June 30, 2005.

      E&Y began the audits during the spring and early summer of 2005 and assigned
 McNeeley as audit manager. The audit team also included an independent review partner, John
Kavanaugh; an engagement partner, Gerard Oprins; two audit seniors; and two audit staff.
 McNeeley was twenty-nine-years old at the time and had been licensed as a certified public
accountant for approximately eight years. As audit manager, McNeeley reported to the
engagement partner, Oprins, but McNeeley was responsible for overseeing day-to-day audit
planning and executing audit strategy. McNeeley also supervised the audit staff and reviewed
audit workpapers in significant risk areas.

      As part of the planning process, E&Y's audit team determined not to rely on AA Capital's
internal controls because E&Y determined those controls to be "ineffective" for purposes of
E&Y's audit. McNeeley explained that this determination was primarily due "to the lack of
sophistication with the client's accounting function and that they kept all their books and records
in Excel format." This determination meant that E&Y's audit would need to test all account
 balances substantively and verify (or "vouch") all capital calls and distributions.

      McNeeley also expressed concern early in the audit process about meeting the June 30
deadline because of staffing constraints, another audit engagement McNeeley was conducting by
 herself, and atwo-week vacation McNeeley intended to take (and did take) starting May 20,
2005. McNeeley, for instance, wrote inane-mail to Oprins in May 2005 that she was "very
concerned about the wrap up of this engagement." In a subsequent email in June 2005,
 McNeeley again wrote "to convey that the June 30th deadline will be challenging to meet," but
added that she believed "that we will be able to meet the June 30 deadline" and "just wanted to
 prepare Mary Beth [Stevens]" for the fact "that things may be pulled together at the last minute."
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                    4

C.   Discovery of Orecchio's Purported Tax Loans

     Sometime during the audit, the E&Y team noticed that AA Capital's accounts receivable
schedule (the "Receivable Schedule")4 listed four cash transfers to Orecchio (collectively, the
"Transfers"). The Receivable Schedule described the transfers as "John —tax payment" and
totaled approximately $1.92 million. The Transfers were spread over approximately six months,
at uneven intervals, in varying amounts, and with slightly different structures:

•    On May 19, 2004, $987,000 was transferred from two Investor Trust Accounts to AA
      Capital's primary bank account. The same day, $602,150 was transferred from AA
      Capital's primary bank account to Orecchio's personal bank account.

•     On August 2, 2004, $190,000 was transferred from three Investor Trust Accounts to AA
      Capital's primary bank account. The same day, $190,154 was transferred from AA
      Capital's primary bank account to Orecchio's personal bank account.

•     On September 20, 2004, $600,000 was transferred from three Investor Trust Accounts to
      AA Capital's primary bank account. The same day, $579,000 was transferred from AA
      Capital's primary bank account to Orecchio's personal bank account.

•     On November 5, 2004, $550,000 was transferred from three Investor Trust Accounts to
     the Equity Fund's bank account. The same day, $550,000 was transferred from the Equity
      Fund's bank account to Orecchio's personal bank accounts

      On or around May 7, 2005, an E&Y audit staff member, Corina Rojas, had a conversation
with Stevens about the Transfers. Rojas documented the conversation with a note on the
Receivable Schedule:

      Per conversation w/ Mary Beth Stevens, CFO, all of the funds held under AA
      Capital Inc. had not finalized their audits, tax filings, and therefore John Orrechio
     [sic], (managing member) did not have a final tax return draft that included
      taxable income w/ set figures. Therefore he had to estimate his tax liability [and]
      made a payment to the IRS for 1,921,150.... The 1,921,150 is essentially a loan
      made to John Orrechio [sic]. Mary Beth Stevens expects to receive payment from
      either Mr. Orrechio [sic] or the IRS after taa~es are finalized.

           McNeeley explained that the Receivable Schedule was prepared by Stevens and
contained a list "of disbursements from the entity and gives further detail and break out of what
those amounts related to."

           The parties stipulated to these details, although an e-mail dated June 16, 2005,
from Stevens to McNeeley, described the Transfers in slightly different amounts: $596,129
(May 19, 2004); $188,100 (August 2, 2004); $573,210 (September 20, 2004); and $544,500
(November 5, 2004).
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                    5

Rojas, who did not testify, further noted on the Receivable Schedule that Orecchio's co-owner,
Oliver, had also received a tax advance —for $18,228.

D.   McNeeley's Audit Steps Regarding the Transfers
     McNeeley testified that, "at some point," she saw the Receivable Schedule listing the four
transfers to Orecchio. She. could not remember, however, precisely when she first learned of the
Transfers, explaining that "it is hard for me to remember exactly when I learned things
throughout the audit." McNeeley recalled meeting with Stevens to discuss the Receivable
Schedule, but could not recall when that meeting occurred. McNeeley remembered asking
Stevens during their meeting to provide "any and all documentation that she had regarding the
tax advances." According to McNeeley, Stevens responded to the request for documents by
directing McNeeley to the tax advance amounts listed in the Receivable Schedule. McNeeley
added that she and the audit team "also had other documentation that we had previously been
provided that also reflected and supported [the Transfers]."

     The first document was a general ledger. McNeeley explained that the ledger was a
document prepared by Stevens reflecting "all transactions going through the company for a set
period of time." The ledger showed the detail of the individual purported tax payments, dollar
amounts, and dates paid.

     The second document was a management representation letter (which was actually two
documents: one each for AA Capital and the Equity Fund). The letters were signed by Stevens
and Orecchio and represented to E&Y that AA Capital's and the Equity Fund's accounting
records were complete and accurately reflected all transactions. The management letter for the
Equity Fund included a general representation that all related-party transactions were properly
recorded or disclosed in the financial statements. Neither management representation letter,
however, explicitly mentioned the Transfers.

     The third document was the Partnership Agreement, which allowed tax-related transfers
in certain situations. Section 7.3.1 of the agreement provided that "if net income of the [Equity
Fund] is allocated to [its] Partners in any fiscal year," then the Equity Fund could make "tax
distributions" to satisfy any tax liability such partner "would actually have incurred.i6 Here,
however, the Equity Fund had a net investment loss in both 2003 and 2004, and neither of the
other two parties involved in the Transfers (Orecchio and AA Capital) were partners in the
Equity Fund.

     McNeeley testified that she "read through" the Partnership Agreement at the beginning of
the audit and "gained an understanding of all the significant provisions within the limited
partnership agreement." She could not recall, however, whether she reviewed the Partnership
Agreement when evaluating the Transfers. As she explained, "I don't have a specific recollection
o~ looking at [the Partnership Agreement] while ...looking at the accounts receivable schedule,

     6     The Partnership Agreement's Section 7.3.3, which was subject to Section 7.3.1,
similarly provided for advances to partners to satisfy estimated taxes.
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                                    C~

but I had previously looked at the [Partnership Agreement] at the beginning of field work and
had an understanding of the provision allowed for in the agreement."

     When asked during the hearing, McNeeley also testified that she and the audit team never
sought nor received any third-party confirmation regarding the Transfers, such as documentation
from the IRS evidencing a tax liability assessment. McNeeley also could not remember whether
she ever asked about Orecchio's ability to repay the Transfers. As McNeeley explained, "we had
no reason to question the collectibility of the receivable from John Orecchio to AA Capital
Partners. We understand him to be a successful wealthy business man. He had capital in the
[E]quity [F]und as well as investments and various other funds." McNeeley added, "Based on
my recollection of the transaction, we understood it to be an erroneous tax liability that had been
assessed to John Orecchio; and therefore, he anticipated settlement with the IRS and was going
to use that to repay it."

     McNeeley also could not recall contacting the E&Y tax department for any reason.
E&Y's tax department prepared AA Capital's tax returns at the time of the audits and, therefore,
likely could have confirmed whether AA Capital had reported income in 2003 or 2004 on which
Orecchio would owe taxes. McNeeley testified, however, that she "d[id]n't know why I would go
and inquire [ofJ the E&Y tax team ...when the tax liability that John Orrechio [sic] received
advances for related to his personal tax return ...and our tax department wouldn't have all the
information necessary to make the evaluation of his personal tax position."

     McNeeley testified at various points during the hearing that she was comforted by her
understanding that Oliver and Orecchio "would have full knowledge about each other's tax
advances." McNeeley could not recall, however, ever confirming whether Oliver actually knew
about the Transfers. In fact, McNeeley could not recall whether she or any other member of the
audit team ever spoke with Orecchio or Oliver about any aspect of the Transfers. McNeeley
instead testified that she "understood" that the two partners "would have full knowledge of each
other's tax advances" and that she based this understanding "on Paul Oliver being the treasurer of
the company and having full access to the records." McNeeley later added that Oliver "had the
opportunity to become aware of such transaction and had a fiduciary ...obligation as a co-owner
of AA Capital Partners to be aware of all the transaction [sic] and ongoing of the business [sic]."

     Near the end of the audit, McNeeley went on vacation for approximately two weeks,
beginning May 20, 2005. After her return, McNeeley e-mailed Stevens "to get clarification as to
exactly what the tax liability related to." In her initial email, sent June 7, 2011, McNeeley
expressed confusion to Stevens about who owed the tax liability and whether any payment had
been made. McNeeley, for example, asked Stevens to clarify that accruals "labeled as'John's T~
Payment' ...are accruals for the Corporation's tax payments and not personal tax liabilities of
the Shareholders." McNeeley also asked "when are the actual payments expected to be made[?]"

     Stevens responded that Orecchio had been "dinged by the IRS and incurred multiple fees
and tax payments." Stevens added that most of the supposed tax assessment amounts were not
correct, but could not be settled with the IRS until the audit and tax work were completed.
---------------------Page 7---------------------

Stevens explained, "Payments for which [Orecchio] is truly liable for he will pay and a majority,
if not all, will be refunded back to him which he will then repay the company."

     McNeeley expressed continued confusion in a follow-up email about what she described
as "these hefty tax assessments." McNeeley wrote to Stevens that "it's my understanding that no
money has actually been paid from or received by AA Capital in relation to the payment of John
[Orecchio]'s taxes," and asked "if it is proper to present a liability on the books of AA Capital for
which AA Capital does not currently have obligation to pay." Stevens wrote back to clarify that
AA Capital was owed an accounts receivable from Orecchio and, in turn, AA Capital owed an
accounts payable to the Equity Fund.

     On the same day as her email exchange with Stevens, McNeeley documented her
understanding of the Transfers with a note in the workpapers:

     [T]he Equity fund made approx. [$] 1,921,304 of tax payments for John Orrechio
     [sic] during 2004. [T]he Equity fund has set up a receivable -from AA Capital
     Partners for reimbursement of this amt. E&Y verified that AA Cptl Ptnrs has a
     reciprocal payable balance to Equity. E&Y also noted that AA Cptl has an
     offsetting receivable balance from John Orrechio [sic]. Appears proper.

     Oprins testified that he saw McNeeley's note, but he could not recall "one way or the
other" whether McNeeley ever discussed the Transfers with him. Oprins could recall only that
McNeeley kept him informed about what was happening during the audits, but not the specific
audit steps taken regarding the Transfers or whether he had discussed the Transfers with the audit
team.

E.   E &Y's Subsequent Review Testing

     As part of the 2004 audit, the E&Y audit team conducted "subsequent review testing" of
transactions that occurred after the 2004 year end. E&Y's workpapers showed that the audit team
looked at AA Capital's cash receipt and disbursement records for "significant" or "unusual" items
that may have occurred between January 1, 2005 and March 31, 2005. McNeeley wrote in the
workpapers that "no unusual items" were uncovered during this subsequent review.

     AA  Capital's 2005 accounts receivable schedule, however, showed that AA Capital made
nine more disbursements to Orecchio in January and February 2005, totaling $482,000. The
2005 accounts receivable schedule described these transfers as "J.O. taxes," "JO Tax Distrib," or
"JO Tax Dist." The record is not clear, however, whether McNeeley saw these subsequent
transfers. The only document in the record that lists the subsequent transfers is the 2005
accounts receivable schedule. That document, however, includes entries dated as late as
December 31, 2005 and therefore could not have existed at the time McNeeley was completing
the audit in June 2005.
---------------------Page 8---------------------

F.   The 2004 Financial Statement

     E&Y  completed the audits by the end of June 2005 and issued unqualified audit opinions
for AA Capital's and the Equity Fund's 2004 financial statements. E&Y's audit opinion
represented that E&Y had conducted its audit in accordance with GARS and that the audit
provided a reasonable basis for E&Y's opinion that AA Capital's and the Equity Fund's financial
statements fairly presented the firms' financial positions, results of operations, and cash flows.'

     The audited financial statements provided no specifics about the $1.92 million tax
advance to Orecchio. Instead, AA Capital's 2004 financial statements disclosed only that the
company had $2.534 million in "[flee and accounts payable" and $2.251 million in "[a]ccounts
receivable from affiliates." The notes to AA Capital's financial statements also provided no
mention of transfers to Orecchio. The notes instead discussed only that the company had paid
$264,176 in "certain reimbursable expenses" for several of AA Capital's related funds. The
Equity Fund's financial statements similarly listed a $1.92 million "[a]ccounts receivable from
AA Capital Partners, Inc.," with no other details such as the terms or manner of settlement.

     E&Y's internal GAAP Disclosure Checklist stated that "[n]otes or accounts receivable
from officers, employees or affiliated companies must be shown separately and not included
under a general heading such as notes or accounts receivable." In response to this item,
McNeeley checked a box indicating "not applicable." McNeeley explained that she checked "not
applicable" because she believed the requirement was limited to making sure that "accounts
receivable with related parties is not grouped in with other accounts receivables from trade
creditors and that was not the case in either one of these financial statements."

G.   Discovery of Orecchio's Fraud

     AA Capital engaged E&Y to audit the company and its related funds again the following
year, 2005. Jennifer Aquino replaced McNeeley as the audit manager because McNeeley was on
maternity leave. Most of the 2005 E&Y audit team otherwise remained the same.

     During the 2005 audit, Aquino asked Stevens for documentation supporting the tax
transfers to Orecchio, but never received anything in return. Aquino testified that the E&Y audit
team had several internal meetings regarding the transfers and sent Orecchio an e-mail, but the
record provides no indication that Orecchio ever responded. Those steps, Aquino recalled, were

           The audit opinion for AA Capital's financial statements included a disclaimer that
AA Capital's policy was to prepare its financial statements on a tax basis of accounting. The
financial statements, the audit opinion explained, were not intended to be presentations in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principals ("GAAP"). Despite this disclaimer,
Oprins and McNeeley both acknowledged that GAAP disclosure requirements for related-party
transactions were the same no matter whether the financial statements were tax-based or GAAP-
based. The audit opinion for the Equity Fund's financial statements did not include a tax basis
disclaimer.
---------------------Page 9---------------------

"the best that we felt we could do at that time." She explained that, because the audit team
"didn't have anything to audit," they could only wait to receive something more from AA Capital.
Aquino also learned during the audit that, by the end of 2005, the t~ transfers to Orecchio had
grown to $5.7 million. As McNeeley's expert witness testified, AA Capital's financial statements
expressly identified the Transfers as "accounts receivables," which indicated that the Transfers
were short-term advances repayable within one year. Aquino, therefore, found it significant that
the 2004 transfers not only still existed on AA Capital's books in 2005, but had, in fact,
increased.

     The audit team eventually decided that they would not continue with the 2005 audit until
Orecchio paid back the "tax loan" and E&Y had received enough documentation to audit the
transfer balance. On June 30, 2006, Oprins informed Stevens and Orecchio that E&Y would not
release its 2005 audit opinions until Orecchio repaid the transfers. The E&Y audit team also
raised a "going concern" issue regarding AA Capital's ability to fund its operations. The audit
team was unable to resolve these issues, and E&Y never issued its 2005 audit reports.

     In August 2006, the Commission conducted a "for cause" on-site examination of AA
Capital to investigate a tip from the U.S. Department of Labor about a kickback scheme. During
the examination, Commission staff learned that Orecchio had misappropriated approximately $5
million through a fraudulent tax-loan mechanism. In September 2006, the Commission filed a
complaint in U.S. District Court against AA Capital and Orecchio. The complaint alleged that
AA Capital and Orecchio misappropriated at least $10.7 million from AA Capital's advisory
clients, and the U.S. District Court placed a receiver over AA Capital.g The U.S. Department of
Justice subsequently brought criminal charges against Orecchio in 2009 for wire fraud and theft
of funds from an employee benefit plan. Orecchio pleaded guilty in February 2010, and a U.S.
District Court sentenced Orecchio to more than nine years in prison.9 The Commission also
instituted administrative proceedings against Stevens and Oliver for their involvement in the
fraud. Stevens and Oliver eventually consented to, among other things, a bar and twelve-month
suspension, respectively; civil penalties; and acease-and-desist order.'o

H.   Rule 102(e) Administrative Proceeding

     In March 2010, the Commission issued an Order Instituting Proceedings ("OIP") against
McNeeley and her supervisor, Gerard Oprins, in connection with their audit of AA Capital. The
OIP charged McNeeley and Oprins with engaging in improper professional conduct as defined in
Rule 102(e) "in that their conduct constituted (A) intentional or knowing conduct, including

           SEC v. AA Capital Partners, Inc., No. 06-C-4859 (N.D. Ill. Sept. 8, 2006).

           United States v. Orecchio, No. 09-CR-622 (N.D. Ill. 2010).

     10    Mary Beth Stevens, Investment Advisers Act Rel. No. 2973 (Jan. 5, 2010),
97 SEC Docket 24420; Paul W. Oliver, Jr., Advisers Act Rel. No. 2903 (July 17, 2009), 96 SEC
Docket 19124.
---------------------Page 10---------------------

                                   10

reckless conduct, that resulted in a violation of the applicable professional standards, or in the
alternative, (B) negligent conduct, consisting of a single instance of highly unreasonable conduct
that resulted in a violation of applicable professional standards in circumstances in which
Respondents knew, or should have known, that heightened scrutiny was warranted." After an
eight-day hearing, an administrative law judge issued an initial decision finding that McNeeley's
actions did not constitute reckless conduct, but did constitute highly unreasonable conduct in
circumstances warranting heightened scrutiny that resulted in a violation of the applicable
professional standards. The law judge found that Oprins also violated the applicable professional
standards, but that his actions were neither reckless nor highly unreasonable. McNeeley appeals
the law judge's decision."

     Rule of Practice 102(e) permits us to censure or deny (either permanently or temporarily)
the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission to persons found to have engaged
in improper professional conduct. The rule defines three classes of "improper professional
conduct" for accountants, but this appeal concerns only one: whether McNeeley engaged in "a
single instance of highly unreasonable conduct that results in a violation of applicable
professional standards in circumstances in which an accountant knows, or should know, that
heightened scrutiny is warranted."'Z We find, for the reasons below, that McNeeley engaged in
such improper professional conduct.

A.   Heightened Scrutiny Was Warranted

     Our Rule 102(e) analysis first considers whether the Transfers warranted heightened
scrutiny. Under Rule 102(e), "heightened scrutiny" is warranted "when matters are important or
material, or when warning signals or other factors should alert an accountant" to a heightened
risk.'3 These factors were clearly present here.

     "     Because the law judge's decision regarding Oprins was not appealed, the only
issue before us on appeal is whether McNeeley engaged in improper professional conduct. See
Gerard A.M. Oprins, CPA, Securities Exchange Act Rel. No. 63931 (Feb. 18, 2011) (giving
notice, "pursuant to Rule 360(d) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, that the initial decision
of the administrative law judge has become the final decision of the Commission with respect to
Gerard A.M. Oprins").

      12   17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(1). The other two classes of improper
professional conduct are "intentional or knowing conduct, including reckless conduct, that results
in a violation of applicable professional standards;" and "repeated instances of unreasonable
conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of
competence to practice before the Commission." 17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(1)(iv)(A),
(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2).

      13   Amendment to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice ("Amendment to
Rule 102(e)"), 63 Fed. Reg. 57,164, 57,168 (Oct. 26, 1998).
---------------------Page 11---------------------

                                    11

     First, the Transfers were related-party transactions, which we and the courts have
repeatedly held require heightened scrutiny.14 The reason for this, the D.C. Circuit has explained,
"is apparent: Although in an ordinary arms-length transaction, one may assume that parties will
act in their own economic self-interest, this assumption breaks down when the parties are related.
A company that would perform a thorough credit-risk assessment before extending a loan might
not do so if the loan were to one of its officers or directors.i15 That is the case here. AA Capital
essentially extended a loan from clients' trust accounts to Orecchio, who was not only an officer
and director of AA Capital, but also a founder and co-owner. Transactions involving such strong
related-party relationships, the D.C. Circuit has explained, alert auditors that a firm may not have
thoroughly vetted those transactions and that, as a result, heightened scrutiny is needed —exactly
the case that faced McNeeley.16

     Second, the Transfers were plainly material, which we have also stated triggers
heightened scrutiny." McNeeley counters that materiality "is irrelevant" because, she contends,
auditors are concerned only with material transactions. She claims that to hold that materiality
warrants heightened scrutiny would therefore mean that every transaction would warrant
heightened scrutiny. She argues that multi-million dollar tax liabilities are not unusual for
private equity firm partners and do not necessarily require heightened scrutiny. Even if we
accepted this latter proposition regarding the absolute amount of the tax liabilities, the Transfers
here were more than 100 times greater than a transfer to Orecchio's equal partner in a year in
which the Equity Fund had no net income.18 Even McNeeley described the $1.9 million transfers
combination warrants heightened scrutiny.19

     '4    McCurdy v. SEC, 396 F.3d 1258, 1261 (D.C. Cir. 2005) (citing Howard v. SEC,
376 F.3d 1136, 1149 (D.C. Cir. 2004)) (noting that related-party transactions "are viewed with
extreme skepticism in all areas of finance"), affg James Thomas McCurdy, CPA, 57 S.E.C. 277
(2004); see also Gordon v. Comm'r, 85 T.C. 309, 326-27 (1985) (explaining "heightened"
skepticism for related-party transactions); AU § 334 (recognizing need for care in the
examination of material related-party transactions).

      15   McCurdy, 396 F.3d at 1261.

      16   McCurdy, 396 F.3d at 1264 ("The related-party interest underlying the transaction
was not minor: Bagwell was the founder and CEO of the fund, a trustee, and its investment
advisor.").

     "     Amendment to Rule 102(e), 63 Fed. Reg. at 57,168 (stating that heightened
scrutiny is warranted "when matters are important or material").

     'g    Cf. McCurdy, 396 F.3d at 1264 (affirming Commission's finding of recklessness
where auditor failed to investigate adequately arelated-party receivable that "was nearly ten
times the amount of the GARS-dictated materiality threshold").

      19   See McCurdy, 57 S.E.C. at 295 (finding heightened scrutiny to be warranted
where, among other things, the receivable at issue "arose from a related party transaction" and
                                                               (continued...)
---------------------Page 12---------------------

                                    12

     Finally, McNeeley argues that the material, related-party nature of the Transfers cannot
provide a basis for finding that the Transfers warranted heightened scrutiny because, she claims,
the Division failed to make such allegations in the OIP. To the contrary, however, the OIP
expressly alleged that "McNeeley identified Orecchio's 'tax loan' as a related party transaction,
[but] failed to apply heightened scrutiny or perform any additional audit steps to evaluate it."
Moreover, the standard for determining whether notice is adequate is whether "the respondent
'understood the issue' and'was afforded full opportunity' to justify [her] conduct during the
course of the litigation.i20 We find that McNeeley, who has been represented by counsel
throughout these proceedings, adequately understood the allegation that the Transfers warranted
heightened scrutiny because of their material, related-party nature and that she had ample
opportunity to defend herself against those allegations.

B.   McNeeley Violated Applicable Professional Standards

     Our analysis of whether McNeeley engaged in improper professional conduct next
addresses whether McNeeley violated applicable professional standards. Here, we find that
McNeeley violated three professional standards: ,(i) exercising due professional care,
(ii) obtaining sufficient competent evidence, and (iii) rendering an accurate audit report.Z'

     1.    Failure to Exercise Due Professional Care

     GARS  require auditors to exercise due professional care when conducting an audit and
preparing a report.22 Under this standard, auditors must maintain an attitude of professional
                                                              evidence.i23
skepticism, which includes "a questioning mind and a critical assessment of audit 
Until an auditor obtains an understanding of the business purpose of material related-party

      19   (...continued)
was "clearly material"); AU § 334.07 ("The auditor should place emphasis on testing material
transactions with parties he knows are related to the reporting entity."); cf. McCurdy, 396 F.3d at
1263-64 (finding that auditor's failure to investigate material, related-party transaction was
reckless under Rule 102(e)).

     20    Aloha Airlines, Inc. v. Civil Aeronautics Bd., 598 F2d 250, 262 (D.C. Cir. 1979).

     21    AU § 230.01 (professional care); AU § 326.22 (sufficient competent evidential
matter); AU § 508.07 (accurate audit report).

     2z 
           AU § 230.01 ("Due professional care is to be exercised in the planning and
performance of the audit and the preparation of the report.").

     Z3 
           AU § 230.07; see also AU § 230.08 ("[P]rofessional skepticism should be
exercised throughout the audit process."); AU § 330.15 (requiring auditors to exercise an
appropriate level of professional skepticism in designing and conducting the confirmation
process).
---------------------Page 13---------------------

                                   13

transactions, her audit is not complete.24 Here, numerous red flags and other irregularities
surrounded the Transfers —anomalies that should have triggered McNeeley's professional
skepticism and led her to investigate further at that point. Instead, McNeeley did essentially
nothing, and an unqualified audit opinion was eventually issued. As explained below, this failure
to investigate fell well below the necessary level of professional care.

     The first, and most glaring, red flag that McNeeley failed to investigate properly involved
the Equity Fund's Partnership Agreement. That agreement contemplated tax-related transfers
only for partners of the Equity Fund. Neither Orecchio nor AA Capital, however, was a partner
in the fund. The Partnership Agreement also contemplated tax-related transfers only for years in
which the fund allocated net income to such partners. The Equity Fund, however, had a net
investment loss in both 2003 and 2004.

     Even a relatively casual understanding of the Partnership Agreement, therefore, should
have, at a minimum, alerted McNeeley that the agreement's terms did not accord with what she
knew about the Transfers. As an auditor, McNeeley was responsible for reconciling these
discrepancies, and verifying that the Equity Fund's governing documents allowed the Transfers
was perhaps the most basic auditing step McNeeley could have taken. The workpapers,
however, contain no indication that she made any effort to square the Partnership Agreement
with the Transfers, and McNeeley herself testified that she could not remember whether she
reviewed the Partnership Agreement subsequent to learning of the Transfers. Instead, McNeeley
claims only that "she was familiar with private equity partnership agreements and the typical
provisions within such agreements, and based on her review of the Partnership Agreement at the
outset of the audit, she understood its provisions." Given the centrality of the Partnership
Agreement in determining the permissibility and appropriate reporting of the Transfers, it was
incumbent upon McNeeley to have a better understanding of the Partnership Agreement than she
did. The lack of evidence that McNeeley performed any follow-up regarding the Partnership
Agreement leads us to one of two conclusions: either McNeeley did not review the agreement
sufficiently to notice and understand the obvious red flags or she noticed the red flags, but did
nothing about them. Either is a failure to exercise due care.

     In her appeal, McNeeley disputes that the Partnership Agreement contained any red flags,
because, she claims, the agreement in fact allowed for tax distributions and advances. McNeeley
does not explain, however, how the agreement actually allowed for the Transfers, other than to
point to what she calls the "common sense" argument that the "very reason that Mr. Orecchio
chose to disguise his misappropriations as a tax advance was that the Partnership Agreement
clearly allows for tax advances under the circumstances here. If it had not, he would not have
used the Partnership Agreement to justify withdrawing the money." McNeeley's generic,
unsupported, after-the-fact assertion that the Partnership Agreement allowed for tax distributions
and advances in certain situations —situations that, on their face, did not apply here — is not a
foundation on which one may properly base an audit. Moreover, McNeeley's contention that it is
"common sense" that a fraudster's cover-up would conform to the governing documents is
contradicted here by the audit evidence of the Partnership Agreement's provisions, and
underscores how little attention she paid to that evidence.

     24 
           AU § 334.09(a).
---------------------Page 14---------------------

                                   14

     The inconsistencies between the Transfers and the Partnership Agreement were not the
only red flags that McNeeley failed to investigate. Stevens gave McNeeley and her audit team
inconsistent explanations for why Orecchio needed the Transfers. The first explanation Stevens
gave was that Orecchio needed the Transfers because he "did not have a final tax return draft
[and] [t]herefore he had to estimate his tax liability and make a payment to the IRS." This
explanation suggests that Orecchio's alleged tax liability was based on his own estimate. Later,
however, Stevens told McNeeley that Orecchio had been "dinged by the IRS and incurred
multiple fees and tax payments." This explanation suggests that Orecchio's alleged tax liability
was based on an IRS calculation (which Orecchio believed was incorrect).25 The record again
contains no evidence that McNeeley exercised appropriate caxe by attempting to reconcile these
inconsistencies.

     McNeeley defends her failure to investigate by arguing that Stevens's explanations were
not, in fact, inconsistent. As McNeeley testified, she understood the Transfers to be "a taY
assessment that was assessed to Mr. Orrechio [sic] based on his estimated taxes[, which] he
believed ...was erroneous in nature because it was not based on final numbers." McNeeley,
however, points to no evidence supporting this after-the-fact rationalization that Orecchio had
incurred some sort of estimated, erroneous taxes. To the contrary, McNeeley's convoluted
explanation of the situation raises its own set of questions.26 How, for example, did Orecchio
estimate a nearly $2 million tax liability for a year in which the Equity Fund had no net
investment income? How did Orecchio's erroneous tax estimate, which the workpapers indicated
was related to a failure by "all of the funds held under AA Capital" to finalize their audits and t~
filings, explain why Orecchio withdrew money from only the Equity Fund? How does an
erroneous tax assessment explain why the Transfers, even when taken out of the Equity Fund,
were not always drawn from the same client trust accounts? How does an erroneous tax
assessment explain why the Transfers took place on multiple dates, at uneven intervals, and in
varying amounts? Again, the record contains no indication that McNeeley explored these
questions. Instead, McNeeley simply accepted management's explanations at face value.

     An additional, obvious question would have been how not having "final numbers" led
Orecchio to estimate taxes that were more than 100 times larger than what his equal partner
Oliver paid. McNeeley argues that Orecchio's disproportionately large tax liability was not
suspicious because she was told that his tax liability was the result of an erroneous assessment
that McNeeley contends "would not bear any relation to the amount of a correct tax liability or
the amount of someone else's correct tax liability." In support, McNeeley points to an E&Y tax
partner's testimony in which he theorized that the IRS could make any variety of mistakes that
could result in large tax discrepancies, such as entering incorrect numbers on one's tax files. This

     zs 
           In yet a third explanation, a managing director at AA Capital told Oprins that AA
Capital's partners "were incurring substantial interest and penalties as a result of late filings of tax
returns." The record does not indicate that McNeeley was aware of this explanation.

     Z6 
           Cf. Michael J. Marcie, CPA, 56 S.E.C. 760, 784 (2003) (rejecting "an
after-the-fact justification for [respondents'] failure to exercise the required degree of
professional care"), rev'd on other grounds, 374 F.3d 1196 (D.C. Cir. 2004).
---------------------Page 15---------------------

                                    15

hypothetical example, however, is inconsistent with the reason for the Transfers that McNeeley
was initially given: that someone erroneously estimated Orecchio's taxes because of not having
final tax information. McNeeley's explanation for her lack of suspicion about Orecchio's
disproportionate taa~ liability thus highlights the difference between the two explanations she was
given. The record contains no evidence that McNeeley ever investigated the reasons for these
differing explanations.

     The record also contains no evidence that McNeeley ever attempted to verify Orecchio's
ability to repay the tax advance. McNeeley testified only that she could not recall whether she
inquired into Orecchio's ability to pay, and added that "we had no reason to question the
collectibility [because] [w]e understood him to be a successful wealthy businessman who had
capital in AA Capital Partners, Inc. plus investments in various other funds." McNeeley's
assumption about Orecchio, however, again lacked support. The workpapers contained no
evidence that McNeeley inquired into Orecchio's overall financial condition. What were these
"various other funds" worth? Were these investments liquid enough to satisfy the amount of the
short-term loans? What were his liabilities? Were his assets encumbered by any debt? Did
Orecchio have sufficient liquid assets to repay the loan in a time period consistent with the loan
being classified as a short-term receivable? The workpapers contain no evidence that McNeeley
ever investigated these questions.27 Stevens also told McNeeley that the IRS was likely to
reimburse Orecchio for the supposedly erroneous tax payments, but the workpapers contain no
evidence supporting that claim either.

     Ultimately, because McNeeley never investigated, let alone reconciled, these various
inconsistencies, McNeeley's various hypothetical explanations for the Transfers remained just
that: hypotheticals. Pursuant to GARS, however, "[i]f a representation made by management is
contradicted by other audit evidence," an auditor may not simply hypothesize, but "should
investigate the circumstances, and consider the reliability of the representation made.i28 That
                                                                 nothing.29
was repeatedly the case here. But instead of investigating, McNeeley did essentially 

     McNeeley contends that any follow-up regarding the Transfers would have been futile
because, she claims, individuals at AA Capital were engaged in collusive fraud. In support, she
notes that Orecchio had forged two IRS notices that she claims show that "AA Capital's

     27    Cf. Gregory M. Dearlove, CPA, Exchange Act Rel. No. 57244 (Jan. 31, 2008), 92
SEC Docket 1867, 1887 (rejecting auditor's reliance on family's ability to repay loan where
auditor did not determine whether family's assets were encumbered by other debts and auditor
"saw no financial statements or other proof of the family's financial condition other than local
media reports that the [family members] 'were billionaires"'), petition denied, 573 F.3d 801 (D.C.
Cir. 2009).

     28    AU § 333.04.

     29 
           Our identification of examples of steps that McNeeley could have taken, but did
not, is not intended to imply that she necessarily was required to take all of these steps to fulfill
her professional duties. Rather, faced with multiple red flags, McNeeley had an obligation to
investigate more than she did.
---------------------Page 16---------------------

                                   16

management had plainly prepared a series of false documents to dole out to the auditors as
necessary." She acknowledges that the record contains no evidence that the audit team ever saw
the notices, but hypothesizes that "[m]ore demands [from McNeeley] would have been met with
more false documents." Individuals at AA Capital were indisputably engaged in fraud, and
E&Y's auditors were plainly not receiving accurate information about the Transfers. It is thus
possible that, no matter the steps McNeeley took, individuals at AA Capital would have
continued to hide the Transfers' true nature. The gravamen of the charge against McNeeley,
however, is not her failure to uncover the fraud itself, but her failure to adhere to GARS during
the audit. An auditor, we have explained, "is not a guarantor of the accuracy of financial
statements of public companies, but the Commission and the investing public rely heavily on
auditors to perform their tasks in auditing public companies 'diligently and with a reasonable
degree of competence.ii30 Therefore, although "[w]e do not know whether [the] fraud would
have been uncovered had [McNeeley] fulfilled [her] professional duties in conducting the audit,
. •..that is not relevant to our inquiry."31

     McNeeley also defends her conduct by challenging whether the Division met its burden
of proving that McNeeley, in fact, failed to take the various follow-up auditing steps described
above (such as reviewing the Partnership Agreement a second time in connection with the
Transfers or verifying Orecchio's tax liability). McNeeley asserts that the only evidence against
her is her own failure to remember whether she took the steps described above and the
workpapers' failure to mention whether she took such steps. She claims that the Division, by
relying on such evidence, is essentially faulting her for not memorializing "every fact gathered,
conversation held, or procedure performed in the course of an audit.i32 McNeeley's argument,
however, misconstrues her auditing responsibilities and the Division's case against her.
Understanding the red flags described above was crucial to understanding, and approving the
accounting treatment of, the underlying Transfers. As we have stated before, "[w]e consider the
absence of work papers to be evidence that the audit team did not devote substantial, if any,

     3o 
           See Marcie, 56 S.E.C. at 795 (quoting Touche Ross & Co. v. SEC, 609 F.2d 570,
581 (2d Cir. 1979)).

     31    See Macrae, 56 S.E.C. at 794-95; see also Michael S Hope, CPA, 49 S.E.C. 568,
606 (1986) (noting that the Commission has repeatedly held that "being lied to" is not an
automatic defense to charges of improper professional conduct); Touche Ross & Co., 45 S.E.C.
469, 469 (1974) (finding that "deception ...did not relieve Touche of its responsibility to
perform its audits in conformity with generally accepted auditing standards").

     3z 
           McNeeley frames this argument as an error by the law judge to apply the proper
burden of proof. McNeeley, in fact, frames much of her appeal in terms of errors by the law
judge. Our de novo review, however, cures any error that the law judge may have made. See
Robert M. Fuller, 56 S.E.C. 976, 989 n.30 (2003), petition denied, 95 F. App'x 361 (D.C.
Cir. 2004). The law judge's opinion thus ceased to have any force or effect once McNeeley filed
her petition for review. See Fundamental Portfolio Advisers, Inc., 56 S.E.C. 651, 679 n.44
(2003); 17 C.F.R. § 201.360(d), (e).
---------------------Page 17---------------------

                                    17

effort to review the areas in question. ii33 And here, McNeeley does not dispute that the
workpapers do not explain, or even mention, the red flags described above or that the workpapers
fail to document any steps she may have taken toward understanding or reconciling the red flags.

     In the end, despite a variety of significant red flags surrounding the Transfers, McNeeley
and the E&Y team verified only the amount of those Transfers ($1.9 million). On almost every
other aspect, McNeeley had only vague, unsupported, and often contradictory management
representations, which raised more questions than they answered. McNeeley's failure to follow
up on such obvious, outstanding issues was a clear failure to exercise due care.

     2.    Failure to Obtain Sufficient Competent Evidential Matter

     McNeeley's lack of due care also led to the related auditing failure of not obtaining
sufficient competent evidential matter. GAAS require auditors to obtain evidence sufficient to
                                                                 review.3a
afford a reasonable basis for an opinion with respect to the financial statements under 
GARS explain that "[t]he amount and kinds of evidential matter required to support an informed
opinion are matters for the auditor to determine in the exercise of his or her professional
judgment after a careful study of the circumstance in the particular case.i35 GARS also warn that
management representations "are not a substitute for the application of th[e] auditing procedures
necessary to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the financial statements under
audit," and auditors may not become satisfied with less than persuasive evidence merely because
they believe that management is honest.36 These warnings were all the more urgent in the
context of auditing a transaction requiring heightened scrutiny because it was a material, related-
party transaction involving a member of management. McNeeley's audit did not conform to
these standards.

     If the Transfers were, as Stevens represented them to be, related to a tax liability, then a
variety of obvious evidential material about the Transfers should have been readily obtainable,
such as IRS-related correspondence, filings, or checks. But McNeeley did not require Stevens to
produce any of this material. Nor did McNeeley question Stevens's failure to produce such
documents when McNeeley asked Stevens to provide all documents related to the Transfers — a
non-response that should have raised its own set of questions. McNeeley relied only on a
receivable schedule, a general ledger, and management representation letters.37 These documents
told McNeeley little about the Transfers other than the amount that was transferred to Orecchio.
In fact, McNeeley's June 7 emails to Stevens showed that McNeeley could not tell from those

     33 
           Dearlove, 92 SEC Docket at 1883 n.39 (noting that "workpapers are ordinarily the
foundation on which support for audit conclusions is demonstrated").

     34 
           AU § 326.22.

     3s 
           Id

     36 
           AU §§ 333.02, 230.09.

     37    McNeeley also claims to have relied on the Partnership Agreement, but, as
discussed, that document did not support the validity of the Transfers.
---------------------Page 18---------------------

                                    18

documents such basic information as whether the Transfers related to a personal or corporate tax
liability, whether any payment had yet been made, or who, if anyone, made such payment. Nor
did the materials on which McNeeley relied answer the various questions discussed above, such
as why the Transfers came only from the Equity Fund or how an erroneously estimated tax
liability could be nearly $2 million, which was more than 100 times more than his equal partner
Oliver's liability, in a year in which the Equity Fund had no net investment income. McNeeley's
correspondence with Stevens was a good starting point for answering these questions, but
Stevens's responses about Orecchio's being "dinged by the IRS" were still only unsubstantiated
management representations, lacked detail, and arguably contradicted Stevens's earlier
explanation about the Transfers' being related to estimated taxes.

     In fact, other than the Partnership Agreement, the evidential materials McNeeley obtained
were all representations or internal accounting documents generated by management. As GARS
expressly warn, evidential matter regarding related-party transactions, such as the Transfers,
"should extend beyond inquiry of management.i38 GARS are even more specific concerning the
audit of related-party transactions involving an uncollected balance (the case here). GARS
identify certain sources an auditor should consider when testing an uncollected balance from a
related party, including "audited financial statements, unaudited financial statements, income tax
returns, and reports issued by regulatory agencies, taxing authorities, financial publications, or
credit agencies.ii39 Other than looking at AA Capital's past financial statements, however, the
record does not show that McNeeley consulted any of these materials.

     To the contrary, McNeeley effectively admits to not seeking certain evidential material
(such as tax documents or cancelled checks) when she argues that it was not her job to
investigate the legitimacy of Orecchio's ultimate use of the Transfers. McNeeley acknowledged
during her testimony, however, that it was "a typical procedure" for an audit team to seek
confirmation of a transaction from third parties. McNeeley testified that she did not do that in
this case because she "essentially already got" such confirmation by obtaining the management
representation letters signed by Orecchio. She explained that "the only party related to the
transaction from AA Capital to John Orrechio [sic] would be John Orrechio [sic]. And so we did
obtain a confirmation from him in the form of the management representation letter." This
confusing explanation, however, concedes that the letters McNeeley obtained were from
management (a related party), and not a third party. Furthermore, these management
representation letters did not expressly address the Transfers and thus did not support the
             Transfers.ao
legitimacy of the 

     38    AU § 334.09.

     39 
           AU § 334.10e.

     4o 
           Cf. Kevin Hall, CPA, Exchange Act Rel. No. 61162 (Dec. 14, 2009), 97 SEC
Docket 23679, 23692 (finding insufficient evidence to conclude that auditors engaged in
unreasonable conduct where auditors questioned management about the problematic transactions
and included a representation about the problematic transactions in the management
representation letter).
---------------------Page 19---------------------

                                   19

     3.    Failure to Ensure Issuance of an Accurate Audit Report

     McNeeley also failed to ensure that E&Y issued accurate audit reports. GARS require
that the financial statements subject to an audit be presented in accordance with GAAP.a'
GAAP, as compared to GARS, focus "not upon an auditor's judgment but upon how specific
accounting tasks should be performed."42 GAAP include FAS 57, which requires that disclosure
of related-party transactions must indicate (i) the nature of the relationship involved; (ii) a
description of the transaction; (iii) the dollar amount of the transaction; and (iv) amounts due
                                                            settlement.a3
from or to related parties and, if not otherwise apparent, the terms and manner of 
Here, McNeeley failed to ensure that AA Capital's and the Equity Fund's financial statements
disclosed the Transfers in compliance with GAAP.

     McNeeley claims that AA Capital's and the Equity Fund's financial statements complied
with GAAP, but we fail to see how. The financial statements included the Transfers only
vaguely as part of an "account receivable" and provided no information about the parties
involved, terms, or manner of settlement. In fact, McNeeley had no real means of ensuring that
the financial statements complied with FAS 57, as she saw essentially no evidential material
providing the information required by FAS 57 nor did she make any other real attempt to
understand the Transfers.

     The Transfers also do not fall within an exception to FAS 57, which states that "[i]n some
cases, aggregation of similar transactions by type of related party may be appropriate. ii44 As the
exception explains, "[s]ometimes, the effect of the relationship between the parties may be so
pervasive that disclosure of the relationship alone will be sufficient.t45 That is not the case here.
The Transfers were purportedly tax-related transfers to an officer. The only similar transaction

     41    See AU § 410.01 ("The first standard of reporting is: The report shall state
whether the financial statements are presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.").

     42 
           Dearlove v. SEC, 573 F.3d 801, 804 (D.C. Cir. 2009). GAAP include a hierarchy
of statements published by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") and by the
AICPA. The highest level of GAAP hierarchy consists of the FASB Statements of Financial
Accounting Standards ("FAS"). On June 30, 2009, FASB issued the FASB Accounting
Standards Codification ("FASB ASC") and established the FASB ASC as the source of
authoritative U.S. GAAP. FASB ASC is effective for interim and annual periods ending after
September 15, 2009. See Commission Guidance Regarding the Financial Accounting Standards
Board's Accounting Standards Codification, Exchange Act Rel. No. 60519A (Aug. 19, 2009),
96 SEC Docket 19829. FAS 57 is currently codified in FASB ASC Topic 850, Related Party
Disclosures. Because the conduct at issue took place before the codification, this opinion uses
the FAS designations.

     43 
           FAS No. 57 ¶2.

     44 
           FAS No. 57 n.3.

     as 
           Id.
---------------------Page 20---------------------

was AA Capital's transfer to Oliver. AA Capital's other related-party transactions involved
reimbursable expenses to AA Capital's related funds —transactions that the financial statements
fully disclosed and that did not relate to the Transfers.

C.   McNeeley Acted Highly Unreasonably

     Our Rule 102(e) analysis finally examines whether McNeeley's auditing failures were
highly unreasonable. Highly unreasonable conduct "is an intermediate standard, higher than
ordinary negligence but lower than the traditional definition of recklessness.ii46 Whether conduct
is highly unreasonable is measured objectively by the degree of the departure from professional
standards rather than by the intent of the accountant.47 McNeeley violated that standard here.

     As noted earlier, verifying that the Partnership Agreement allowed the Transfers was
perhaps the most basic auditing step McNeeley could have taken during the audit, but did not.
The record establishes, however, that McNeeley either (i) never discovered the obvious
inconsistencies between the Partnership Agreement and the Transfers' terms, or (ii) she
discovered those inconsistencies but took no steps to reconcile them. Either conclusion
constitutes an egregious auditing failure.

     McNeeley also faced a variety of other red flags that she should have investigated further.
Such investigation could have involved any number of simple, obvious follow-up steps, such as
requiring AA Capital to produce copies of IRS correspondence or cancelled checks to validate
the Transfers. Instead, McNeeley relied only on management representations, knew only what
information Stevens provided to her —information that was vague and contradictory —and
confirmed only how much money flowed from the Equity Fund to Orecchio.48

     McNeeley's reliance on Stevens's unsupported representations was made worse by the fact
that McNeeley had previously determined that AA Capital's internal controls were "ineffective."
McNeeley downplays the significance of that determination by arguing that AA Capital's internal
controls were ineffective "only in the sense that the audit team could not rely on such controls as
a substitute for conducting substantive audit procedures; and ...this was completely ordinary for
a relatively small and new private equity company." This, however, is exactly the point. A
determination that AA Capital had weak internal controls did not mean the company was
necessarily doing anything wrong. It did, however, alert McNeeley that she should rely on more
than management representations.

     46 
           Amendment to Rule 102(e), 63 Fed. Reg. at 57,167.

     a~    Id

     48    Cf., e.g., McCurdy, 57 S.E.C. at 295 ("McCurdy failed to undertake such simple,
obvious steps as contacting [the fund investment adviser] or the [fund's] Trustees for more
information, or reviewing copies of [the investment adviser]'s tax returns or credit reports. Under
these circumstances, McCurdy's failure to obtain additional competent evidence regarding the
collectibility of the Receivable was highly unreasonable.").
---------------------Page 21---------------------

                                   21

     McNeeley further exacerbated the unreasonableness of her auditing conduct by denying
readers of the financial statements any chance to make their own determination about the
Transfers. The financial statements gave readers no way to know that AA Capital had lent $1.9
million to Orecchio or what the terms of that loan were. Even E&Y's own internal disclosure
checklist, which McNeeley went through when conducting the audit, reminded its auditors of
FAS 57's requirements and stated that accounts receivable from officers or employees "must be
shown separately and not included under a general heading such as notes or accounts receivable."
Although a firm's own internal guidance may not be a professional standard on which we can
base a finding of improper professional conduct under Rule 102(e), E&Y's internal guidance was
such an obvious reminder of GAAP's requirements that the guidance made McNeeley's failure to
               glaring.a9
comply all the more 

     Any one of McNeeley's auditing failures would have been highly problematic. But taken
together, the failures are especially egregious. McNeeley was faced with multiple red flags
surrounding a material, related-party transaction. She had any number of avenues for
investigating those red flags, but pursued none of them. She then compounded those failures by
not ensuring that, at a minimum, readers of the financial statements would be aware of the
Transfers and could thus make their own determination about the Transfers' importance. This
failure to comply with auditing standards with respect to the Transfers constituted highly
unreasonable conduct as defined in Rule 102(e).

     McNeeley presents several broad, generalized, arguments about why we should not find
her conduct to have been highly unreasonable. She argues, for instance, that it is inconsistent to
find that she acted highly unreasonably when the law judge found that her supervisor, Oprins,
had not acted highly unreasonably during the same audit. The law judge's finding regarding
Oprins, however, is not before us on appeal. And while the law judge ultimately found that
Oprins had not acted highly unreasonably for purposes of Rule 102(e), the law judge also found
that Oprins had failed to comply with auditing standards.

     49 
           Cf. Dormu v. District of Columbia, 795 F. Supp. 2d. 7, 29 (D.D.C. 2011) (noting
that the D.C. Court of Appeals has "held that internal guidelines and policies do not establish a
standard of care, but 'may properly be received in evidence as bearing on the standard of care"'
(citations omitted)); Sabratek Liquidating LLC. v. KPMG LLP, No. O1-C-9582, 2003 WL
22715820, at *6 (N.D. Ill. 2003) (unpublished) (noting that KPMG's internal standards and
procedures "could shed light on KPMG's knowledge of applicable accounting standards and
whether the result of its conduct was foreseeable"); Gregory O. Trautman, Exchange Act Rel.
No. 61167 (Dec. 15, 2009), 98 SEC Docket 26534, 26563 (finding recklessness where petitioner
did not know that late trading was illegal despite internal instruction manual that mandated that
orders be placed before 4:00 p.m.).
---------------------Page 22---------------------

                                   22

     Of more significance, however, is that GARS establish different roles and responsibilities
for different audit team members. GARS explain that "[a]uditors should be assigned to tasks and
supervised commensurate with their level of knowledge, skill, and ability so that they can
evaluate the audit evidence they are examining.i50 Here, as engagement partner, Oprins was
responsible for, among other things, overseeing the audit manager (i.e., McNeeley), reviewing
the workpapers, and signing the audit report. McNeeley, by comparison, was responsible for
overseeing day-to-day audit planning, executing audit strategy, supervising audit staff, and
reviewing audit workpapers in significant risk areas. Significantly, she was also responsible for
reporting to Oprins any significant questions concerning the audits' Any failure by McNeeley to
bring such red flags to Oprins's attention, therefore, could explain how Oprins could have
performed his duties in a manner commensurate with his knowledge, skill, or ability, even where
McNeeley did not.

     We recognize that Oprins was told about the loans, but the record is unclear whether
McNeeley brought the red flags to his attention. Given the uncertainty in the record, we cannot
say whether Oprins knew or should have known about the problems surrounding the Transfers.
McNeeley, however, had tie red flags in front of her. Given her role in the audit, we therefore
                                                        conduct.52
conclude it is appropriate to find that she engaged in improper professional 

     so 
           AU § 230.06.

     s'    Cf. AU § 311.14 ("The auditor with final responsibility for the audit should direct
assistants to bring to his attention significant accounting and auditing questions raised during the
audit so that he may assess their significance.").

     52 
           McNeeley filed a letter with the Commission on November 9, 2011, repeating an
assertion made during oral argument that the law judge erred when concluding that "the record
does not establish that Oprins was ever made aware that the Transfers were purportedly made to
satisfy an erroneous tax liability." McNeeley argues that the law judge's conclusion was wrong
because Oprins, in his Amended and Restated Answer to the OIP, "admit[ed] that he was told
that Orecchio borrowed the [$1.92 million] as a loan to pay an erroneous tax assessment." In her
letter, McNeeley attached Oprins's Answer "for the Convenience of the Commissioners because
it was discussed during oral argument on November 2, but was not attached to any of the briefs."

           On November 16, 2011, the Division moved to strike McNeeley's letter, arguing
that "the Answer was already part of the record submitted to the Commission pursuant to
Commission Rule of Practice 460." The Division added that "the content of the letter shows that
its true purpose is to argue again certain factual findings in the Initial Decision." We grant the
Division's motion. As discussed in the text, the issue is not whether Oprins was told about the
loans, but whether McNeeley alerted Oprins to the various red flags surrounding those loans.
McNeeley's letter adds nothing that was not already argued or part of the record, and our Rule of
Practice 450(a) provides that, "[n]o briefs in addition to those specified in the briefing schedule
order may be filed except with leave of the Commission." 17 C.F.R. § 201.450(a).
---------------------Page 23---------------------

                                    ~~

     McNeeley also disputes the sufficiency of the Division's evidence by pointing to the fact
that a majority of witnesses at the hearing testified that her conduct was reasonable. The majority
of witnesses, however, were McNeeley's own witnesses. It is not surprising that those witnesses
testified in McNeeley's favor. We find, however, that the Division's expert's testimony and
conclusion that McNeeley's conduct was "an extreme departure from GARS" was more
persuasive.

     McNeeley challenges the persuasiveness of the Division's expert by asserting that the
expert "conceded" that McNeeley did not engage in highly unreasonable conduct. We disagree
with that characterization of the testimony. The expert's supposed concession occurred during
cross-examination, during which the expert acknowledged that reasonable auditors could
disagree with his conclusion that McNeeley's conduct was an extreme departure from GARS,
i. e., that her conduct was reckless. The expert then added that it was "certainly possible" that
reasonable auditors could disagree about whether McNeeley's conduct was reasonable.

     Because GAAS "were established by consensus among members of the accounting
profession," accounting professionals can, by GAAS's very nature, disagree about their
provisions.53 Thus, read in context, the Division's expert's statements were no more than a
reflection of the process by which GARS were established. The expert was otherwise
unequivocal about his conclusion that McNeeley's conduct was an extreme departure from
GARS, and our findings that McNeeley's conduct was highly unreasonable are consistent with
that testimony. Moreover, even if, as McNeeley claims, the Division's expert had conceded that
McNeeley's conduct was not highly unreasonable, the Commission has its own expertise and is
not bound by expert testimony regarding auditing standards. In fact, determining whether
McNeeley's conduct was highly unreasonable is the reason for this proceeding. As we have
explained, "while the opinions of qualified expert accountants may be helpful, this Commission
must in the last analysis weigh the value of expert testimony against its own judgment of what is
             practice.'~sa
sound accounting 

                                   IV.

     When determining an appropriate sanction, "we are mindful of the remedial nature of
Rule 102(e) and our purpose in promulgating the rule to ensure that the Commission's 'processes
continue to be protected, and that the investing public continues to have confidence in the

     s3 
           pCAOB  Release 2003-025 (Dec. 17, 2003), PCAOB Rulemaking Docket Matter
No. 010 (noting that "generally accepted" auditing and accounting standards were established by
consensus).

     sa 
           Haskins &Sells, Accounting Series Release No. 73 (Oct. 30, 1952), 1952 SEC
LEXIS 1062, at *28; see also Dearlove, 92 SEC Docket at 1897-98 (noting that "[t]he
Commission may consider expert testimony, but it is not bound by such testimony even where it
is available").
---------------------Page 24---------------------

                                   24

integrity of the financial reporting process.ii55 As we recognized in our release adopting the 1998
amendments to Rule 102(e), "the Commission has limited resources" and therefore "must rely on
the competence and independence of the auditors who certify, and the accountants who prepare,
financial statements.i56 Because of this, the Commission and the investing public must "rely
heavily on accountants to assure corporate compliance with federal securities law and disclosure
of accurate and reliable financial information.X57

     McNeeley failed to meet these obligations. McNeeley was responsible for auditing a
material, related-party transaction that raised obvious concerns. She had ample opportunity to
investigate these red flags, yet did essentially nothing. McNeeley instead deferred to her client's
unsupported representations about the Transfers during the audit and to her client's subsequent,
limited disclosure preferences in the financial statements. Such an egregious failure to comply
with auditing standards "jeopardize[s] the achievement of the objectives of the securities laws
and can inflict great damage on public investors.i58

     McNeeley's conduct also indicates a risk that she will commit future violations. As the
D.C. Circuit has recognized, "the existence of a violation raises an inference that it will be
repeated,i59 and McNeeley has made clear that she intends to remain an auditor if permitted. Our
concern that McNeeley will commit future violations is exacerbated by McNeeley's subsequent
failure to recognize the wrongfulness of her conduct. McNeeley has consistently asserted that
she conducted the audit appropriately. While a respondent has the right to present a vigorous
defense, McNeeley's testimony and subsequent arguments on appeal reflect a continuing failure
to grasp the role of an auditor. McNeeley argues, for example, that she had no duty to verify the
legitimacy of the reasons for the Transfers (e.g., verifying that Orecchio owed the taxes that he
claimed). This assertion ignores the importance of obtaining third-party evidence, especially
when auditing related-party transactions and, more generally, displays a failure to appreciate the
overarching obligation to exercise due care and professional skepticism. McNeeley also testified,
and now argues on appeal, that the evidential matter she obtained from AA Capital was sufficient
to understand the Transfers. That evidential matter, however, consisted almost exclusively of
management representations that were often vague and contradictory. Perhaps most troubling,
McNeeley not only fails to recognize her failures, but she also argues that "[t]his case arose only
because a criminal audit client, who now resides in a federal prison, successfully led an effort to
defraud her and the rest of the audit team." Orecchio's fraud, however, did not cause her auditing

     ss    Dearlove, 92 SEC Docket at 1912 (quoting Amendment to Rule 102(e), 63 Fed.
Reg. at 57,164).

     56 
           Amendment to Rule 102(e), 63 Fed. Reg. at 57,165.

     5' 
           ra.

     58    Touche Ross & Co., 609 F.2d at 581.

     s9 
           Geiger v. SEC, 363 F.3d 481, 489 (D.C. Cir. 2004) (affirming violation of
Securities Act Section 5 and related cease-and-desist order).
---------------------Page 25---------------------

                                   25

failures. Her highly unreasonable conduct caused her auditing failures. Orecchio's fraud served
only to expose those failures. Such an inability to recognize the wrongfulness of her conduct
gives us concern that McNeeley will repeat her misconduct in the future.

     McNeeley disputes that a likelihood of her committing a future violation exists because
of her "perfect record in the nearly six years since the [a]udits." An otherwise clean disciplinary
history, however, is not determinative for purposes of our sanctions analysis.60 We also find little
assurance in McNeeley's performance history given that McNeeley would have known that, once
the Commission instituted these proceedings, her conduct would be more highly scrutinized,
which reduced the likelihood of her committing additional misconduct during this time.

     We recognize that imposing a sanction on McNeeley could have collateral consequences,
such as tarnishing her reputation, but such consequences are outweighed by our concern that
"[a]n incompetent or unethical practitioner has the ability to inflict substantial damage to the
Commission's processes, and thus the investing public, and to the level of trust and confidence in
our capital markets.X61 We have accordingly warned that "'where such individuals engage in
professional misconduct which impairs the integrity of the Commission's processes, the
                                                        102(e).i62
Commission has an obligation to respond through the application of Rule 

     On appeal, McNeeley argues that any suspension at this stage of the proceedings would
be punitive because the Division did not issue the OIP until "nearly five years after the Audits
ended." McNeeley claims that, "[i]f there were a legitimate need to protect the public, Ms.
McNeeley would not have been allowed to continue practicing before the Commission year after
year after year." We disagree. Bringing a 102(e) case against an accountant involves various
complexities, not the least of which is that problems with an audit, which can be complex, are
not typically brought to light until the problems with the underlying financial statements are
understood. The Commission is also entitled to prioritize its resources toward disciplining
fraudsters. Although auditors and the underlying fraudsters both pose a threat to the public, they
present the Commission with differing priorities, which are reflected in the different sanctions

     6o 
           Cf., e.g., Steven Altman, Esq., Exchange Act Rel. No. 63306 (Nov. 10, 2010), 99
SEC Docket 34405, 34437 n.81 (imposing bar against attorney for engaging in improper
profession conduct under Rule 102(e) despite attorney's previously clean disciplinary record),
petition denied, 666 F.3d 1322 (D.C. Cir. 2011); James C. Dawson, Advisers Act Rel. No. 3057
(July 23, 2010), 98 SEC Docket 30697, 30704 (imposing bar despite respondent's previously
clean record in a nearly thirty-year career and respondent's claim that such a record established a
"marked unlikelihood" of future violations); Gary M. Kornman, Exchange Act Rel. No. 59403
(Feb. 13, 2009), 95 SEC Docket 14246, 14259 (imposing bar despite respondent's lack of
disciplinary history), petition denied, 55 F.3d 173 (D.C. Cir. 2010).

     61    Altman, 99 SEC Docket at 34437 (quoting Keating, Muething, & Klekamp, 47
S.E.C. 95, 120 (1979) (concurring opinion)) (imposing bar while noting the "potential collateral
consequences that may result from our decision in this case").

     62 
           Id. (quoting Keating, 47 S.E.C. at 120).
---------------------Page 26---------------------

                                    26

ultimately leveled against the various actors involved with fraudulent financial statements (e.g.,
jail for Orecchio; a professional bar for Stevens; and asix-month suspension for McNeeley).
Our rules, in fact, reflect these differing priorities by expressly contemplating that government
resources will be focused first toward the fraudsters. Rule 210(c)(3), in particular, allows
criminal prosecutorial authorities, such as the U.S. Department of Justice, to seek a stay of a
Commission enforcement or disciplinary hearing "during the pendency of a criminal
investigation or prosecution arising out of the same or similar facts that are at issuei63 — a rule the
Department of Justice has used in the past to stay Commission Rule 102(e) proceedings against
auditors.6a

     Here, the delay in instituting the proceedings obviated the need for a stay by the
Department of Justice, and the OIP was issued less than a month after Orecchio pleaded guilty in
his criminal proceedings and within three and one half years of the Division discovering the
fraud. This timing is consistent both with the considerations described above and with other
administrative proceedings in which we have imposed sanctions against auditors under Rule
102(e).65 We therefore see nothing unusual or punitive about imposing a sanction at this stage of
the proceedings.

     McNeeley challenges the appropriateness of imposing a suspension by arguing that the
record contains no evidence that her misconduct was intentiona1.66 We have explained, however,
that "a negligent auditor can do just as much harm to the Commission's processes as one who
acts with an improper motive.i67 A disciplinary matter involving highly unreasonable conduct is

     63 
           17 C.F.R. § 201.210(c)(3).

     64 
           See Hall, 97 SEC Docket at 23689 (noting that "[1]argely because the
administrative proceeding was stayed at the request of the Department of Justice, pending
resolution of criminal proceedings arising out of the fraud, the hearing did not begin until July
2007," which was approximately seventeen months after the order instituting proceedings was
filed).

     bs 
           See, e.g., Marcie, 374 F.3d at 1199 (involving OIP that was issued "just shy of
five years" after audit at issue); Dearlove, 92 SEC Docket at 1873, 1919 (involving OIP that was
issued more than four years after audit at issue).

     66 
           McNeeley also argues that the law judge erred by failing to conduct the multi-
factor public interest analysis outlined in Steadman v. SEC, 603 F.2d 1126, 1140 (5th Cir. 1979),
aff d on other grounds, 450 U.S. 91 (1981). The D.C. Circuit, however, has recognized that "the
Commission is not required to follow any mechanistic formula in determining an appropriate
sanction." Kornman v. SEC, 592 F.3d 173, 186 (D.C. Cir. 2010).

     67    Amendment to Rule 102(e), 63 Fed. Reg. at 57,167.
---------------------Page 27---------------------

                                   27

therefore not necessarily less egregious than one involving intentional or reckless conduct, and,
for all the reasons described in this opinion, we believe that this is such a case.68

     Nevertheless, we believe that certain factors weigh in favor of a more measured sanction
than the three-year suspension that the Division believes is appropriate. McNeeley, for example,
was a relatively young auditor at the time of the audits and had not been in the industry as long as
some others against whom we have imposed sanctions under Rule 102(e).69 McNeeley was also
overseen by a supervisor, Oprins, who the law judge found had not fully complied with his own
auditing duties. Although the law judge ultimately concluded that Oprins's auditing failures did
not amount to highly unreasonable conduct under Rule 102(e), Oprins's conduct during the audit
raised sufficient questions about the adequacy of Oprins's supervision to suggest that a sanction
less severe than what the Division requests is appropriate.

     In weighing all of the considerations, we therefore believe that asix-month suspension
from appearing or practicing before the Commission is appropriate. This time spent out of
auditing will impress upon McNeeley the severity of her auditing failures, thus providing specific
deterrence to her and providing more general deterrence to the auditing profession.

     68    See Dearlove, 92 SEC Docket at 1912 (recognizing "that, under some
circumstances, unreasonable conduct is not necessarily a less egregious disciplinary matter than
either intentional or reckless conduct, or highly unreasonable conduct in circumstances
warranting heightened scrutiny").

     69 
           See, e.g., Dearlove, 92 SEC Docket at 1913 (imposing four-year suspension for
auditor who had been an accountant for approximately twenty-five years at time of audit by
noting, in part, that "Dearlove's lengthy audit experience makes his failure to conduct the .. .
audit in accordance with applicable professional standards all the more troubling"); McCurdy, 57
S.E.C. at 295-96 (imposing one-year suspension for auditor who had been a CPA for nearly
twenty years at time of audit by noting, in part, that "[t]his lengthy experience makes his failure
to conduct the audit in accordance with applicable professional standards particularly
troublesome").
---------------------Page 28---------------------

                                   28

     For the reasons above, we find that McNeeley engaged in improper professional conduct
as defined in the Commission's Rule of Practice 102(e) and that, as a result, McNeeley should be
denied the privilege of appearing or practicing as an accountant before the Commission for six
months. An appropriate order will issue.70

     By the Commission (Chairman SCHAPIRO and Commissioner WALTER);
Commissioner PAREDES, concurring in part and dissenting only with respect to the sanction
imposed, Commissioners AGUILAR and GALLAGHER not participating.

                                 Elizabeth M. Murphy
                                      Secretary

     70    We have considered all of the parties' contentions. We have rejected or sustained
them to the extent that they are inconsistent or in accord with the views expressed in this opinion.
---------------------Page 29---------------------

Commissioner PAREDES, dissenting with respect to the sanction imposed:

     The Commission has found that Wendy McNeeley, a certified public accountant and
audit manager, violated the Commission's Rule of Practice 102(e) ("Rule 102(e)"). Although I
concur, on the basis of the record before us, that McNeeley's conduct violated Rule 102(e), I
cannot support the sanction imposed by the majority of the Commission. In light of the facts of
this matter, asix-month suspension from appearing or practicing before the Commission is more
severe than is appropriate to achieve its purpose.'

     The conduct of McNeeley that gave rise to this matter occurred over seven years ago
while McNeeley served as audit manager for an audit of a client's 2004 financial statements.
Over the course of the past several years, McNeeley has had ample time to reflect on her failure
to perform an audit according to applicable standards — an audit that, as the Commission's
opinion notes, occurred when McNeeley "was a relatively young auditor."z

     Furthermore, after the deficient audit and throughout the course of the Commission's
action against McNeeley, McNeeley has been employed by a national accounting firm and has
continued to appear and practice before the Commission.3 That McNeeley has continued
practicing without any other disciplinary action being brought against her indicates her
comportment with professional standards of conduct and, perhaps more tellingly, belies the
majority's concern that she poses such a risk that asix-month suspension is warranted at this
point in her career after so much time has elapsed since the conduct underlying her Rule 102(e)
violation. Simply put, the majority of the Commission too readily concludes that there is a risk
that McNeeley will commit future violations.4

     There is no evidence in the record that McNeeley has engaged in any subsequent
improper professional conduct since the occurrence of the conduct that is the basis of this matter.
To the contrary, McNeeley has shown over a meaningful number of years —after the violation —
that she is capable of performing her responsibilities in accordance with applicable standards.s

           See Commission Opinion, text accompanying supra note 55.

           Commission Opinion, text accompanying supra note 69.

     j     Wendy McNeeley, CPA, Initial Decision Rel. No. 411 (Dec. 28, 2010), 100 SEC
Docket 36461, 36464-65.

           See Commission Opinion, supra pp. 24-25.

     5     The OIP against McNeeley was filed nearly five years after completion of the
audit of the 2004 financials, and the Commission heard oral argument more than one and a half
years later. No stay of proceedings against McNeeley was requested by the Department of
                                                              (continued...)
---------------------Page 30---------------------

To the extent that McNeeley's clean record since the Rule 102(e) violative conduct is a result of
her taking extra care, that is precisely the intended effect of a remedial sanction.

     I am not persuaded that there is a justifiable remedial purpose to be served by subjecting
McNeeley to a six-month suspension at this time. Therefore, I am troubled that the six-month
suspension will have an unnecessarily punitive effect. The Commission's interests would be
appropriately served with a less severe sanction, perhaps a censure. Accordingly, I dissent with
respect to the sanction imposed by the majority of the Commission.

    '      (...continued)
Justice, and there is nothing in the record to indicate that the length of time that passed was the
result of any obstruction, cover-up, or delaying tactics on McNeeley's part.
---------------------Page 31---------------------

                      UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                              before the
                SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE  COMMISSION

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Rel. No. 68431 /December 13, 2012

ACCOUNTING  AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT
Rel. No. 3427 /December 13, 2012

Admin. Proc. File No. 3-13797

           In the Matter of the Application of

             WENDY  MCNEELEY, CPA
              c/o Robert L. Michels, Esq.
               Winston & Strawn LLP
                  35 Wacker Dr.
                 Chicago, IL 60601

ORDER IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

     On the basis of the Commission's opinion issued this day, it is

     ORDERED  that Wendy McNeeley be, and hereby is, denied the privilege of appearing or
practicing before the Commission as an accountant for six months from the date of this order.

     By the Commission.

                                     Elizabeth M. Murphy
                                          Secretary
