---------------------Page 1---------------------

                 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                     Before the 
                 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  61245 / December 28, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3090 / December 28, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-13729 
 
                                           
                                   :  
In the Matter of                   :   ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE  
                                   :  PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE  
       ANNA M. BAIRD, CPA          :   102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                   :   PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
Respondent.                        :   IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
______________________________:  
  
 
                                          I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate 
and in the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, 
instituted against Anna M. Baird (“Respondent” or “Baird”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) 
                                     1 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  
                                         II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted 
an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  
Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on  
behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting 
or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over her and 
                                                 
1 
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or pr acticing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any  court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3. 

 below, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting 

 Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of 

 Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth 

 below. 

  
                                            III. 
  
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
  
                1.      Baird, age 52, has been a certified public accountant licensed to 
 practice in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.  She served as Chief Financial Officer, 
 Vice President and Treasurer of Black Box Corporation (“Black Box”) from May 1997 
 until December 2002.  Baird was licensed as a CPA in Pennsylvania from 1982 through 
 early 2003, when her license lapsed. 
                 
                2.      Black Box is a Delaware corporation with its principal place of 
 business in Lawrence, PA.  Black Box is a network infrastructure services provider of 
 communication systems.  At all relevant times, Black Box’s common stock was 
 registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act 
 of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and traded on NASDAQ’s Global Select Market System under 
 the symbol “BBOX.” 
                 
                3.      On December 4, 2009, the Commission filed a complaint against 
Baird in SEC v. Black Box Corporation, et al        . (Civil Action No. 09-CV-1591, W.D. PA).  
On December 8, 2009, the court entered an order permanently enjoining Baird, by consent, 
from future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933, and 
Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act, and from aiding and abetting violations of Sections 
13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-
13 thereunder.  Baird was also ordered to pay $87,243 in disgorgement and $31,402 in 
prejudgment interest. 

                4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that, 
while she was the Chief Financial Officer of Black Box, Baird participated in backdating 
stock options purportedly issued in October 2000 as part of a plan to reduce expenses.  The 
complaint alleged that Baird knew or should have known that Black Box had failed to 
properly record compensation expenses for these options, which were granted at below 
market prices and were, therefore, “in the money.”  The complaint further alleged that  
Baird knew or should have known that Black Box’s filings with the Commission, 
specifically the Form 10-Q for the quarter ending December 31, 2000 and the Form 10-K 
for the year ending March 31, 2001 contained materially false and misleading statements.  
The complaint also alleged that Baird failed to implement a system of internal accounting 
controls to accurately reflect the granting of stock options, and aided and abetted Black 
Box’s violations of the company’s books and records and internal accounting controls 
requirements as they pertained to the administration and implementation of its stock option 
programs. 
 

                                             2
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                            IV. 
                                              
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public 
interest to impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Baird’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
        A.     Baird is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant.   
 
        B.     After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that 
the Commission consider her reinstatement by submitting an application (attention:  
Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as: 
      
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation 
or review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the 
Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work 
in her practice before the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit 
committee of the public company for which she works or in some other acceptable 
manner, as long as she practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                           (a) Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which she 
is associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board 
(“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration 
continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)     Respondent, or the regist ered public accounting firm with 
which she is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not 
identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality 
control system that would indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate 
supervision; 
 
                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the 
Board, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the 
Board (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Respondent acknowledges     her responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not 
limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner 
reviews and quality control standards. 
      

                                             3
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

        C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume  
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that her state CPA license is 
current and she has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards 
of accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional 
conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
        By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth M. Murphy 
       Secretary                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                 4
 
