---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                        

                                            
                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                          before the  
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 69277 / April 2, 2013 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3450 / April 2, 2013 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-14201 

                           
                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Eric J. Bur, CPA  
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                           
        

       On January 20, 2011, Eric J. Bur, CPA (“Bur”) was suspended from appearing or 
practicing before the Commission as an accountant as a result of settled public administrative 
proceedings instituted by the Commission against Bur pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the 
                               1
Commission's Rules of Practice.    Bur  consented to the entry of the order without admitting or 
denying the findings therein but for the Commission’s finding that a final judgment and 
permanent injunction and other relief had been previously entered against him.  This order is 
issued in response to Bur’s application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the 
Commission as an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements 
required to be filed with the Commission. 

       The Commission’s Complaint alleged, among other things, that from at least 2002 to 2007, 
while Bur was employed as the Chief Financial Officer of NIC Inc. (“NIC”), the company’s Chief 
Executive Officer received more than $1.18 million in undisclosed perquisites.  Bur had 
responsibility, along with NIC’s Chief Accounting Officer, for NIC’s internal controls, books and 
records, and executive compensation disclosures in public filings.  Bur was informed that the CEO 
was not submitting documentation supporting a business purpose for his expenses as required by 
NIC’s policies and a subordinate raised his concerns to Bur that some of the CEO’s expenses were 
not business related.  However, Bur permitted NIC to pay the CEO’s expenses, which caused NIC’s 
books, records and accounts to falsely characterize the CEO’s perquisites as business expenses.  In 
addition, the Complaint alleged that Bur was aware of the Commission’s rules requiring the 

                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 3233 dated January 20, 2011.  Bur was permitted, pursuant 
to the order, to apply for reinstatement after one year upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                    

disclosure of perquisites in proxy statements and annual reports, yet he reviewed, signed, and/or 
certified NIC’s filings with the Commission for 2002 through 2006, which failed to disclose the 
CEO’s perquisites and contained false statements concerning the CEO’s compensation.    As a result, 
Bur violated Rules 13a-14 and 13b2-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 
Act”), and aided and abetted violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B), and 14(a) of 
the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 14a-3, and 14a-9 thereunder.     
 
       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Bur attests 
that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of any 
company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Bur is not, at this time, seeking to appear or 
practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume 
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be 
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Bur’s 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
                                                          2
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”   This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Bur, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the January 20, 2011 order suspending 
him from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no information 
has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, professional 
conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis for adverse 
action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, and that Bur, 
by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of any company 
for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in his practice 
before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be filed with 
the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 
        
        
        
        

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
 

                                                 2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                                 

        
        
        
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that Eric 
J. Bur, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant 
responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed with the 
Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                             
                                             
                                            Elizabeth M. Murphy  
                                            Secretary  

                                               3 
