---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                            the 
 SECURITIES                           AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 61315 / January 7, 2010 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3100 / January 7, 2010 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13489 
 
                                                 
                                                 
In the Matter of                                 
                                                 
       POLLARD KELLEY                        ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND 
       AUDITING SERVICES,                    IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
       INC. and TERANCE                      PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
       KELLEY, CPA,                          COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                             PRACTICE   
Respondents. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                            I. 
 
              On May 27, 2009, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) 
instituted public administrative proceedings against Pollard Kelley Auditing Services, Inc. 
(“Pollard-Kelley”) and Terance Kelley, CPA (“Kelley”) (together, “Respondents”), 
pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 1
                                                                      

                                                 
1
       Rule 102(e)(1) provides, in pertinent part:  “The Commission may censure a person or deny, 
temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is 
found . . . (ii) to be lacking in character or integrity or  to have engaged in unethical or improper 
professional conduct.” 
 
                 With respect to persons licensed to practice as accountants, Rule 102(e)(1)(iv) provides that 
“improper professional conduct” means:   
 
                 (A) intentional or knowing conduct, including reckless conduct, that results in a violation 
       of applicable professional standards; or (B) either of the following two types of negligent 
       conduct: (1) a single instance of highly unreasonable conduct that results in a violation of 
       applicable professional standards in circumstances in which an accountant knows, or 
       should know, that heightened scrutiny is warranted.  (2) repeated instances of 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                            II. 
 
       The Respondents have submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”), which the 
Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any 
other proceeding brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission 
is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the 
Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these proceedings, which 
are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Making Findings and 
Imposing Remedial Sanctions Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice (“Order”), as set forth below. 
        
                                            III. 
        
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offer, the Commission finds that: 
        
                                        Summary 
 
           1.  These proceedings arise out of a deficiency in Respondents’ 2006 audit of 
Pegasus Wireless Corporation’s financial statements.  During the 2006 audit, Respondents 
violated numerous professional standards by failing to obtain written representations from 
Pegasus’ management and failing to exercise due care and professional skepticism.  In early 
2008, nearly one year after completing the audit and after being sued by Pegasus investors 
for securities fraud, Respondents added additional workpapers to their audit documentation, 
which masked deficiencies in the audit.  By adding workpapers after the fact and adding 
them to their audit documentation, without identifying the date they were added or the 
reason for adding them, Respondents violated Public Company Ac    counting Oversight 
Board (“PCAOB”) Auditing Standard No. 3.  Respondents’ conduct, as further described 
below, constituted improper professional conduct within the meaning of Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) 
and (iv).  
 
                                      Respondents 
 
        2.           Pollard Kelley Auditing Services, Inc. is a Colorado corporation licensed 
to do business in Colorado and Ohio.  Pollard-Kelley is a public accounting firm 
registered with the PCAOB.  According to corporate filings, its principal place of 
business is Kelley’s Colorado home.  Pollard-Kelley has five employees, including 
Kelley.  The firm served as Pegasus’ independent auditor from mid-2005 through 
approximately November 2007.  As auditor, Pollard-Kelley opined that Pegasus’ 2005 
and 2006 financial statements were prepared in conformity with Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) and that Pollard-Kelley had conducted audits in 
accordance with the PCAOB’s standards.  
 
              3.           Terance Kelley, CPA, age 62, resides in Lake City, Colorado.  He formed 
Pollard-Kelley and is its vice president of audit services.  He performs the vast majority of 
                                                                                                                                                 
       unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards, 
       that indicate a lack of competence to practice before the Commission. 

                                             2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

the firm’s audits and performed the audits of Pegasus’ 2005 and 2006 financial statements, 
as well as quarterly reviews of Pegasus financial statements through approximately 
November 2007.  He is licensed as a certified public accountant in Ohio.        
 
                                     Related Party 
 
              4.           Pegasus Wireless Corporation is a Nevada corporation formed in 2000.  
After several failed enterprises, it became a shell company by 2003.  In June 2005, through 
a series of reverse mergers, it acquired OTC Wireless, Inc., a private company incorporated 
in California that designs wireless networking devices.  Pegasus had headquarters in 
Fremont, California, until about January 2007.  It currently maintains a mailbox in Palm 
Beach, Florida.  During the relevant period, its securities were registered pursuant to 
Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Excha nge Act”).  Its shares most 
recently traded on the OTC Bulletin Board and briefly traded on NASDAQ in 2006.  
Pegasus filed for bankruptcy in January 2008. 
 
                    Respondents’ Improper Professional Conduct 
 
       Pegasus’ Fraud Scheme 
 
              5.           From 2006 through 2008, Pegasus officers defrauded investors by creating 
backdated promissory notes memorializing a phony debt, which they used to issue 
unrestricted shares of Pegasus stock to individuals and entities they controlled.  Pegasus 
issued nearly 480 million shares – 75% of its outstanding shares – based on the fake, 
backdated promissory notes, resulting in massive dilution of the existing shareholders’ 
ownership interest.  The individuals and entities who received shares dumped the stock on 
the open market and funneled many millions in proceeds to Pegasus officers.   
 
       6. Pegasus misled investor     s about why it issued the shares.  For example, in 
the financial statements included in its quarterly report on Form 10-QSB for the quarter 
ended September 30, 2006, Pegasus stated:  “During the third quarter the Company issued 
5,276,016 shares to satisfy $263,800 debt [sic] owed by the Company from prior to the 
change in control [in 2005].”  Similarly, in the financial statements in its annual report on 
Form 10-KSB for the year ended December 31, 2006, Pegasus represented:   
        
              During 2006 the Company issued 7,376,016 shares of 
              common stock to satisfy $368,532 debt [sic] owed by the 
              Company from prior to the change in control. . . .  The 
              Company is obligated on notes payable amounting to 
              $145,000 remaining balance which were undisclosed when 
              current management took control of the shell company.  
              These notes were entered into at various times in 2003 and 
              were 2 year notes, all of which have matured.  The notes . . . 
              are convertible into common stock of the parent company at 
              the discretion of the holder.  Management two steps back 

                                            3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

               failed to disclose these notes to subsequent management, 
               thus current management was unaware of their existence. 
                
In truth, Pegasus officers in 2006 concocted the debt as a means to enrich themselves. 
 
       Respondents’ Deficient 2006 Audit 
 
       7.           From mid-2005 through approximately October 2007, Respondents served 
as Pegasus’ independent auditor, auditing the company’s 2005 and 2006 financial 
statements and reviewing its quarterly statements through the second quarter of 2007. 
        
       8.           In March 2007, during field work for the 2006 audit, Respondents noted 
Pegasus’ disclosures that it had issued stock to pay previously undisclosed debt.  The 
alleged debt described in the September 30, 2006 10-QSB had grown from $263,800 to 
$368,532 at year-end, as had the number of shares issued.  (Pegasus had additional debt, 
which had been previously disclosed, on its balance sheet.)  Moreover, the number of 
shares issued by year-end based on the alleged debt (7,376,016) equaled more than one 
third of Pegasus’ then-outstanding shares. 
 
              9.           Respondents advised Pegasus in writing that they needed copies of “all 
agreements in connection with the conversion of $368,532 of debt into common stock.”  
Pegasus’ CFO agreed to provide the information.  Respondents also sent additional emails 
seeking this information. 
 
       10.        Respondents also requested Pegasus to explain the “basis for the 7,376,016 
shares of common stock issued to satisfy $368,532 of debt.”  On March 28, 2007, Pegasus’ 
CFO replied in writing:  “Huh? isn’t that rather obvious.”  Kelley’s contemporaneous notes 
reflect that he continued to have questions about the item. 
        
       11.        Pegasus failed to provide the promised information or other substantiation 
or explanation for the alleged debt.  Pegasus also failed to provide additional requested 
information to Respondents, including detail for prepaid expenses; a cash summary, bank 
reconciliations, and bank statements; supporting invoices for research and development 
purchases; a breakdown of the goodwill balance; and a copy of an acquisition agreement.  
Despite these open items, Respondents rendered an unqualified opinion on Pegasus’ 2006 
financial statements and affirmed its audit was in accordance with the PCAOB’s standards.  
Pegasus included the opinion in its 2006 annual report on Form 10-KSB filed April 3, 
2007.      
   
       12.        Respondents also failed to obtain a signed management representation letter 
from Pegasus for the 2006 audit. 
        
       13.        PCAOB auditing standards require auditors to exercise reasonable diligence 
and due professional care in performing an audit.  “Due professional care requires the 
auditor to exercise professional skepticism. . . . [i.e.,] an attitude that includes a 
questioning mind and a critical assessment of audit evidence.”  AICPA Codification of 

                                            4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

Statements on Auditing Standards, “Due Professional Care in the Performance of Work,” 
AU § 230.07.  “The auditor neither assumes that management is dishonest nor assumes 
unquestioned honesty.  In exercising professional skepticism, the auditor should not be 
satisfied with less than persuasive evidence because of a belief that management is 
honest.”  AU § 230.09.  Moreover, an auditor must obtain “sufficient competent 
evidential matter” to provide “a reasonable basis for forming an opinion.” AU § 326.22. 
        
       14.        In addition, PCAOB auditing standards establish a requirement that the 
auditor obtain written representations from management as part of an audit.  AU § 333.01.  
The specific representations an auditor should obtain relate to, among other things, 
management’s acknowledgement of its responsibility for the financial statements; its belief 
that the financial statements are fairly presented in conformity with GAAP, and the 
completeness of information provided.  AU § 333.06.  Management’s refusal to furnish 
written representations constitutes a limitation on the scope of the audit sufficient to 
preclude an unqualified opinion and is ordinarily sufficient to cause an auditor to disclaim 
an opinion or withdraw from the engagement.  AU § 333.13. 
        
       15.        Respondents departed from the standards described above by failing to 
obtain competent evidential matter for the alleged debt and other matters and failing to 
exercise professional skepticism.  
        
       16.        Respondents further departed from these standards by failing to obtain a 
written management representation letter from Pegasus for the 2006 audit. 
        
       17.        During reviews of Pegasus’ quarterly financial statements for the quarters 
ended March 31, 2007, and June 30, 2007, Respondents continued to request information 
about the alleged debt and other items, but received nothing regarding the debt or other 
items. 
 
       Respondents Added Documents to Their Audit Work Papers After the Audit 
 
              18.        In late 2007, a Pegasus investor, seeking to represent a class of injured 
shareholders, sued Pollard-Kelley and others for securities fraud.  Pollard-Kelley was 
served with the complaint on December 29, 2007. 
 
        19.       On January 1, 2008, Kelley e-mailed the Pegasus CFO and CEO, stating:  
“We have been named defendants in [a lawsuit] against Pegasus, et al.  Please give me a 
call and bring me up to date concerning this matter.”  The e-mail further stated:  “ALSO, 
THIS IS THE TIME TO GET THE FINAL SCHEDULES NEEDED FOR THE 2006 
AUDIT TO ME!!!!!!”  
 
       20.        On February 19, 2008, in connection with its investigation relating to 
Pegasus, SEC staff requested Pollard-Kelley to produce documents, including documents 
relating to Pegasus’ disclosures about how and why it issued shares to pay the purported 
convertible debt. 
        

                                            5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

        21.       In early 2008, having received notice of a shareholder suit involving 
Pegaus, Respondents added an unsigned, written management representation letter to the 
audit work papers.  The letter purported to reflect the CEO and CFO’s confirmation that the 
2006 financial statements are fairly presented in conformity with GAAP; that they made 
available to Pollard-Kelley all financial records and related data; and that they had no 
knowledge of fraud involving management.  The letter was not signed by Pegasus’ CEO or 
CFO.  Rather, Kelley made a handwritten note on the last page of the letter:  “Verbally 
acknowledged & confirmed . . . by [Pegasus’ CFO] over the phone.   Hard copy to follow.”   
        
       22.        Kelley, however, testified that he added the workpaper to the audit 
documentation in 2008.   

       23.        In addition to adding the written management representation letter to the 
audit documentation, Respondents added an undated memo to explain why they opined on 
Pegasus’ 2006 financial statements despite numerous open items.  The memo states:  

              At the time [Pegasus filed its 10-KSB] a request for 
              additional information and support was made to the client . . 
              . . [W]e were told the materials requested would be 
              provided.  The 45 day period of wrapping up audit 
              documentation passed on May 13, 2007 without the receipt 
              of the requested materials. 

              At that time the firm considered what it should do.  
              Provisions of AU 390 were considered.  The firm knew of 
              no reason to suspect the accuracy of the filed financial 
              statements.  [The] CFO is a knowledgeable, competent 
              experiences [sic] accountant, with many years experience.  
              Past audits have shown a consistent accuracy of the 
              Company’s records under [the CFO’s] leadership.  We did 
              not know or have any reason to believe the statements as 
              filed were misleading . . . . 

              We concluded that even with the omitted procedures our 
              audit work papers still supported our opinion.  However, we 
              will continue to try to obtain the information requested the 
              complete the additional audit procedures for the items 
              requested on [the 10-KSB filing date]. 

       24.        When Kelley created the document in early 2008 and added it, he was still 
being told by the CFO of Pegasus that documentation was forthcoming, but he was 
suspicious whether the CFO would ever provide the requested documents. 

       25.        PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 3 provides that “[a] complete and final set 
of audit documentation should be assembled for retention as of a date not more than 45 
days after the report release date” (i.e., the “date the auditor grants permission to use the 
auditor’s report in connection with the issuance of the company’s financial statements”).  

                                            6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

¶¶ 14-15.  Although the standard recognizes that “[c]ircumstances may require additions to 
audit documentation after the report release date,” it states that “[a]ny documentation added 
must indicate the date information was added, the name of the person who prepared the 
additional documentation, and the reason for adding it.”  ¶ 16. 

       26.        Respondents departed from this standard by adding the written management 
representation to the audit documentation in early 2008 without indicating when it was 
added or the reason for adding it. 

       27.        Respondents further departed from this standard by adding the undated 
memo to the audit documentation without indicating when it was added.         
 
                                        Violations 
 
              28.        Rule 102(e)(1) provides, in pertinent part:  “The Commission may censure a 
person or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before 
it . . . to any person who is found . . . (ii) to be lacking in character or integrity or  to have 
engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct.”  With respect to persons licensed 
to practice as accountants, Rule 102(e)(1)(iv) provides that “improper professional 
conduct” means:   
 
       (A) Intentional or knowing conduct, including reckless conduct, that results 
       in a violation of applicable professional standards; or (B) Either of the 
       following two types of negligent conduct:  
               (1) A single instance of highly unreasonable conduct that results in a 
               violation of applicable professional standards in circumstances in 
               which an accountant knows, or should know, that heightened 
               scrutiny is warranted.   
               (2) Repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a 
               violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of 
               competence to practice before the Commission. 
 
                                        Findings 
 
       29.        Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondents engaged in 
improper professional conduct pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice. 
         
                                           IV. 
 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the 
sanctions agreed to in Respondents’ Offer. 
 
 
 

                                            7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 
 
              Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.         Respondents are each denied the privilege of appearing or practicing 
before the Commission as an accountant.  
        
       B.          After five years from the date of this order, Respondents may each request 
that the Commission consider his or its reinstatement by submitting an application 
(attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation 
or review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the 
Commission.  If submitted by Kelley, such an application must satisfy the Commission 
that Kelley’s work in his practice before the Commission will be reviewed either by the 
independent audit committee of the public company for which he works or in some other 
acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the Commission in this capacity; and 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                                        (a)         Respondents, or the public accounting firm with which 
Kelley is associated, are registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight 
Board (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such 
registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Respondents, or the regi                         stered public accounting firm with 
which Kelley is associated, have been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not 
identify any criticisms of or potential defects in Kelley’s or the firm’s quality control 
system that would indicate that Kelley will not receive appropriate supervision; 
 
   (c)         Respondents have resolved all                   disciplinary issues with the 
Board, and each has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by 
the Board (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
   (d) Respondents each acknowledge                              his or its responsibility, as 
long as either Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent 
accountant, to comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, 
but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner 
reviews and quality control standards.   
        
       C.          The Commission will consider an application by either Respondent to 
resume appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his or its state CPA 
license is current and he or it has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable 
state boards of accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by 

                                              8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

the Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to either Respondent’s character, integrity, professional 
conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 
              By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth M. Murphy 
       Secretary 
 

                                                       9 
