---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                      

                                               
                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  

                                         Before the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 61432 / January 27, 2010 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3110 / January 27, 2010 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-11911 

                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE
In the Matter of 
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Karen T. Baker, CPA 
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION  
                          
        
       On April 26, 2005, Karen T. Baker (“Baker”) was denied the privilege of appearing or 
practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public administrative 
proceedings instituted by the Commission against Baker pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                 Baker consented to the entry of the April 26, 2005 order 
without admitting or denying the findings therein.  This order is issued in response to Baker’s 
application for reinstatement to practice before the Commission as an accountant. 
        
       Baker served as the audit manager for Deloitte & Touche LLP’s audit of Just for Feet, 
Inc.’s financial statements for the fiscal year ended January 30, 1999.  The Commission found 
that Baker reasonably should have known that the financial statements had not been prepared in 
accordance with GAAP, but nonetheless issued, with others, an unqualified audit report that 
represented that the financial statements were free from material misstatements and were fairly 
presented in conformity with GAAP and that the auditors had adhered to GAAS when the audit 
was performed.  Baker did not comply with GAAS in the conduct of the audit and engaged in 
improper professional conduct within the meaning of Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice through repeated instances of unreasonable conduct. 
 
       In her capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Baker 
attests that she will undertake to have her work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
                                                 
1 
 See  Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2238  dated April 26, 2005.  Baker was permitted, pursuant  
to the order, to apply for reinstatement after one year upon making certain showings.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                             

any company for which she works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, 
while practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Baker is not, at this time, seeking to 
appear or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If she should wish to 
resume appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, she will 
be required to submit an application to the Commission showing that she has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Baker’s 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order 
        
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”     2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
        On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Baker, it appears that she has complied with the terms of the April 26, 2005 order denying her 
the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to her character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against her pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, and 
that Baker, by undertaking to have her work reviewed by the independent audit committee of any 
company for which she works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in her 
practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly,  
 
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Karen T. Baker, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                               
                                               
                                                              
                                                              
                                                             Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                             Secretary 
 

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3)  
of this section may be made at any time, and the applic ant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated                         
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i).                        
