---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                            STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                     the 
 SECURITIES                     AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 63243 / November 4, 2010 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3204 / November 4, 2010 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-14107 
                                           ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-
In the Matter of                           AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS 
                                           PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF 
ROYAL DUTCH SHELL plc,                     THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE 
                                           ACT OF 1934,  MAKING 
and                                        FINDINGS,  AND IMPOSING 
                                           SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-AND-
                                           DESIST ORDER  
SHELL INTERNATIONAL 
EXPLORATION AND 
PRODUCTION INC.,  
 
Respondents. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                      I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate 
that cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Royal Dutch Shell plc,      
(“ Respondent Shell”) and against Shell International Exploration and Production Inc. 
(“Respondent SIEP”).    
 
 
                                     II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted 
Offers of Settlement (“Offers”), which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely 
for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of 
the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over Respondents and the 
subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry 
of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing Sanctions and A Cease-
and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                                                                 III.  
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds1
                                                                                    that:  
 
   A.     SUMMARY 
    
       This matter concerns violations of the anti-bribery provisions of the Foreign  
Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) by Respondent SIEP and the record keeping and internal 
controls provisions of the FCPA by Respondent Shell.  From September 2002 through 
November 2005, SIEP, on behalf of Shell, authorized the reimbursement or continued use 
of services provided by a company acting as a customs broker that involved suspicious 
payments of approximately $3.5 million to officials of the Nigerian Customs Service in 
order to obtain preferential treatment during the customs process for the purpose of 
assisting Shell in obtaining or retaining business in Nigeria on Shell’s Bonga Project.  As a 
result of these payments, Shell profited in the amount of approximately $14 million.  None 
of the improper payments was accurately reflected in Shell’s books and records, nor was 
Shell’s system of internal accounting controls adequate at the time to detect and prevent 
these suspicious payments. 
 
   B.     RESPONDENTS 
        
       Royal Dutch Shell plc (“Shell”), an English-chartered company, headquartered in 
The Hague, Netherlands, focuses, through its subsidiaries, on oil, gas, and power 
production and exploration.  Shell’s American Depository Receipts are registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act, and trade on the New York 
Stock Exchange.  2
                      
                                                 
1
              The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents' Offers and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
2
       The conduct at issue in the matter primarily occurred prior to a corporate restructuring 
which created Royal Dutch Shell plc.  Royal Dutch Petroleum Company, a Dutch company, and 
The “Shell” Transport and Trading Company, an English company, are predecessors to Royal 
Dutch Shell plc.  During the relevant period, the ordinary shares of Royal Dutch Petroleum 
Company and the American Depository Receipts of The “Shell” Transport and Trading Company 
were registered with the Commission and traded on the New York Stock Exchange.   On October 
28, 2004, the Royal Dutch Petroleum Company board and The “Shell” Transport and Trading 
Company board voted to propose to shareholders the unification of Royal Dutch Petroleum 
Company and The “Shell” Transport and Trading Company under a single parent company, 
Royal Dutch Shell plc.  In July 2005, the transaction was completed in which Royal Dutch Shell 

                                             2
---------------------Page 3---------------------

    
       Shell International Exploration and Production Inc. (“SIEP”), a Delaware 
company with headquarters in Houston, Texas, is a wholly owned indirect subsidiary of 
Shell.  SIEP acted as an agent of Shell for purposes of the Bonga Project.  SIEP’s financial 
results are components of the consolidated financial statements included in Shell’s filings 
with the Commission.   
 
   C.     OTHER RELEVANT ENTITY 
    
       Shell Nigerian Exploration and Production Company Ltd. (“SNEPCO”), 
located in Nigeria, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Shell Petroleum N.V., which, in turn, is 
a wholly owned direct subsidiary of Shell.  SNEPCO performed work on the Bonga 
Project. 
 
   D.     FACTS 
                                                 
       I.      The Bonga Project 
        
       Bonga, discovered by a Shell subsidiary in 1995, was the first deepwater offshore 
oil and gas project in Nigeria.   Developmental drilling on the Bonga Project began in 
December 2000 and the project reached First Oil  3
                                                  in November 2005.  
        
       The Bonga field was developed by SNEPCO (55% interest), on Shell’s behalf, 
and other oil companies pursuant to a Production Sharing Contract with the Nigerian 
National Petroleum Corporation (“NNPC”).  Under the Production Sharing Contract, the 
oil companies were responsible for all upfront costs associated with reaching First Oil, 
but the costs were subsequently fully recoverable from the proceeds of oil production.   
        
       The Bonga Project, authorized and approved by Shell’s board, was executed 
jointly across several Shell entities, including SIEP and SNEPCO.  In particular, SIEP 
provided experienced project and technical personnel for the project who were 
responsible for such things as project controls, project accounting, document control, cost 
planning, cost controls, and handling claims against contractors.  A SIEP employee 
located in Houston managed the contractual relationship with one of the Contractors on 
the project and was responsible for reviewing and approving invoices and underlying 
documentation submitted by the Contractor.  Another SIEP employee was head of the 
Bonga Project Services Team with responsibility for reviewing and approving invoices 
and underlying documentation submitted by the Contractors before the invoices were 
passed on to SNEPCO’s finance department for payment.  In addition, on a monthly 
                                                                                                                                                 
plc became the parent company of Royal Dutch Petroleum Company and The “Shell” Transport 
and Trading Company.    
 
3
       “First Oil” is the point at which the proj ect’s construction phase ceases, and the project 
commences production.  
 

                                            3
---------------------Page 4---------------------

basis, the Bonga Project Manager reported on the progress of the Bonga Project through 
the corporate chain up to a member of Shell’s board of directors.   
        
       Developing the Bonga field required the transportation of large amounts of 
equipment and parts into Nigeria.  Pursuant to the Production Sharing Contract,  
ownership of this equipment passed to NNPC once imported into Nigeria.  SNEPCO, on 
behalf of Shell, however, was responsible for arranging importation of the equipment and 
for paying customs duties on the items, which costs, pursuant to the contract, were 
recoverable later from the proceeds of oil production.   
 
       In developing Bonga, SNEPCO, on behalf of Shell, hired a number of contractors, 
unaffiliated with Shell, including Contractor A and Contractor B.  In order to assist in the 
importation into Nigeria of equipment necessary for the Bonga Project, the Contractors, 
and in some instances SNEPCO directly, hired the services of an  international freight 
forwarding and customs clearing company (“Courier Subcontractor”) for transporting and 
customs clearance. 4
                       
        
       One of the services Courier Subcontractor provided was an express door-to-door 
courier service (“Courier Service”) that expedited the delivery of goods and equipment 
into Nigeria.  The Nigerian customs clearance process was routinely delayed, often taking 
weeks or even months to clear equipment through customs.  In addition, the Bonga 
Project was over-budget and behind schedule and a significant amount of equipment 
needed to be imported into Nigeria.  These circumstances led to the repeated use of 
Courier Subcontractor’s Courier Service.   
        
       Courier Subcontractor was able to expedite the importation of goods because of 
an “on the side” agreement between Courier Subcontractor and members of the Nigerian 
Customs Service (“NCS”) in which Courier Subcontractor made corrupt payments to 
NCS officials to bypass the normal customs process.  Goods shipped using Courier 
Subcontractor’s Courier Service arrived in Nigeria “customs cleared,” resulting in a 
significant savings of time and a reduction in the required customs duties and tariffs with 
a significantly higher freight fee.  Typically, Courier Subcontractor billed the Contractors 
who paid the bill and, in turn, sought reimbursement, which required approval from 
SIEP.  Certain of Courier Subcontractor’s invoices charged a special fee (i.e. bribe).  The 
special fee was initially invoiced as a “local processing fee” and later invoiced as 
“administration/transport charges.”  The use of Courier Subcontractor’s Courier Service 
expedited shipments into Nigeria by about 20 to 39 days.  Therefore, a shipment that 
would take 30 days to clear Nigerian customs using regular air freight could clear 
customs in as quickly as 10 days using the Courier Service.   
        
                                                 
4
       In February 2007, one of the Bonga Project Contractors pleaded guilty to violations of 
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and agreed to pay $26 million in criminal fines in connection 
with the payments to Nigerian customs officials through Courier Subcontractor to obtain 
preferential treatment during the customs process.  See United States v. Vetco Gray UK Limited, 
CR H07-04 (LNH) (S.D. Tex. 2007).   
 

                                            4
---------------------Page 5---------------------

        
       II.     The Bonga Project Contractors 
        
               a.      Bonga Project Contractor A 
                
              Under the contracts with the Bonga Project Contractors all costs were borne by 
the Contractors, subject to certain exceptions, such as, customs duties.  SNEPCO, on 
behalf of Shell, was financially responsible for all customs duties and the Contractors 
were responsible for all shipping costs.  For customs duties greater than $100,000, 
SNEPCO, on behalf of Shell, paid the Nigerian government directly.  For customs duties 
less than $100,000, the Contractors paid and sought reimbursement.  The payments at 
issue in this proceeding were each under $100,000, and were initially paid by the 
Contractors.  In February 2004, Contractor A submitted a contract variation request for 
reimbursement of a $1.8 million accruement in “additional transportation and related 
charges” relating to the use of Courier Subcontractor’s Courier Service and the payment 
of local processing fees.5
                          
        
       In analyzing whether to reimburse Contractor A for these courier costs, certain 
employees of SIEP responsible for approving the payment of invoices, were made aware 
of red flags relating to the service and that it likely involved illicit payments to customs 
officials.  For example, SIEP repeatedly requested that Courier Subcontractor and 
Contractor A provide a receipt from NCS proving that the local processing fee had been 
deposited into a Nigerian Government account.  However, neither company was able to 
supply such receipts.  In addition, certain SIEP employees learned that Courier 
Subcontractor’s Courier Service bypassed the normal customs duty payment process and 
that using the service “reduced [  ] liability for Nigerian Customs and Import Duty.”   
        
       In July 2004, SIEP rejected Contractor A’s contract variation request for the 
additional charges relating to the use of the Courier Service.  At the same time, a “no 
proof, no pay” policy was implemented for the Bonga Project.  Pursuant to the policy, 
SIEP, on behalf of Shell, would not approve reimbursement to Contractor A for any 
expenses relating to the Courier Service unless Contractor A could provide (1) Courier 
Subcontractor’s receipts from NCS validating that customs duties were paid directly into 
an official NCS banking or financial institution and (2) NCS documentation confirming 
that associated payments satisfied the customs duties and that no further duties would be 
due.  At the time, certain individuals at SIEP had concluded that it was unlikely that 
Contractor A would be able to provide such proof.  However, certain SIEP employees 
continued to permit the Contractors to use Courier Subcontractor for customs clearance 
and Courier Subcontractor’s Courier Service.  In addition to continuing to encourage and 
support the use of Courier Subcontractor’s courier service, certain individuals working on 
the Bonga Project also tried, without success, to modify the “no proof, no pay” policy in 
order to reimburse the courier expenses even without proof that payment had been made 
into a Nigerian government account.    

                                                 
5
       Contractor A made subsequent additional requests bringing its total reimbursement 
request to $2.1 million. 

                                            5
---------------------Page 6---------------------

        
        
                     b.           Bonga Project Contractor B 
        
       During the course of the Bonga Project, Contractor B sustained financial 
difficulties and accordingly, SIEP, on behalf of Shell, put in place a process to advance 
funds to Contractor B to pay Bonga Project expenses as they became due, including 
Contractor B’s payment of shipping costs to Courier Subcontractor for the use of the 
Courier Service.   Despite the red flags that came to SIEP employees’ attention in 
examining whether to reimburse Contractor A for its courier expenses, SIEP approved 
advancing funds to Contractor B for the use of the Courier Service, even when Contractor 
B could not provide valid customs receipts as required by the “no proof, no pay” policy.  
Further, certain Bonga Project personnel agreed to a proposal by Courier Subcontractor 
to increase the tariff rate in Contractor B’s and Courier Subcontractor’s contract to hide 
the “local processing fees” which would no longer be broken out as a separate line item.   
        
       In total, approximately $3.5 million in suspicious payments were made to 
Nigerian customs officials.  Approximately $1.8 million of these payments were for 
“local processing fees” and “administrative/transport charges” related to Courier 
Subcontractor’s Courier Service.  SIEP, on behalf of Shell, authorized reimbursement of 
approximately $2.5 million of these payments.  6
                                                   
        
                      SIEP’s  Exchange Act Section 30A Violations 
        
       Section 30A of the Exchange Act makes it unlawful for an issuer that has a class of 
securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, or “for any officer, director, 
employee or agent of such issuer . . . acting on behalf of such issuer, to make use of the 
mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an 
offer, payment, promise to pay, or authorization of the payment of any money, or offer, 
gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any person while 
knowing that all or a portion of such money or thing of value will be offered, given, or 
promised, directly or indirectly, to any foreign official . . . ” for, among other things, 
influencing any act or decision of such foreign official in his official capacity in order to 
assist such issuer in obtaining or retaining business.   
        
       As detailed above, Respondent SIEP, an agent of Shell, authorized the 
reimbursement and continued use of Courier Subcontractor’s services that involved 
unlawful payments to Nigerian customs officials in order to obtain preferential treatment 
during the customs process for the purpose of assisting Shell in obtaining or retaining 
business in Nigeria on Shell’s Bonga Project.  As a result, SIEP violated Section 30A of the 
Exchange Act.  Shell benefitted through these payments by bypassing the normal customs 
process and importing equipment into Nigeria faster than Shell would have had the 
payments not been made.  Ultimately, this accelerated Shell’s ability to reach First Oil and 

                                                 
6
       The activity relating to the additional $1 milli on in suspicious payments was authorized 
by SIEP, but the reimbursement of those funds was ultimately not authorized. 

                                             6
---------------------Page 7---------------------

provided Shell with the value of its oil production profits sooner than it would have had it 
not made the payments.  By avoiding the payment of certain customs duties through these 
payments, Shell also benefited by having the use of those funds when Shell would have 
otherwise had to wait to be reimbursed from the proceeds of oil production.  As a result of 
these payments, Shell profited in the amount of $14,153,536. 
     
             Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) Violations 
 
       Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires every issuer to make and keep 
books, records, and accounts, that in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the issuer.   
        
       Respondent Shell violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) because Shell’s books and records 
did not accurately reflect the nature of the improper payments.  Instead, the improper 
payments were recorded as legitimate transaction costs such as “local processing fees” and 
“administration/transport charges” and thus were not fairly reflected or accurately recorded 
in its books, records, and accounts.   
        
       Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires every issuer to devise and 
maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable 
assurances that: (i) that transactions are executed in accordance with management’s general 
or specific authorization; and (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting 
principles or any other criteria applicable to such statements.  As evidenced by the details 
surrounding SIEP’s authorization of reimbursement and continued use of Courier 
Subcontractor’s services, Respondent Shell failed to devise and maintain an effective 
system of internal controls to prevent or detect illegal payments and as such, violated 
Section 13(b)(2)(B).   
 
                                           IV. 
 
              In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the 
sanctions agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
  
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange 
Act: 
 
 A. Respondent SIEP ce             ase and desist from committing or causing any 
violations and any future violations of Section 30A of the Exchange Act and Respondent 
Shell cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations 
of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act; 
 
       B. Respondents shall, with     in 30 days of the entry of this Order, jointly and 
severally, pay disgorgement of $14,153,536 and prejudgment interest thereon of 
$3,995,923 to the United States Treasury.  If timely payment is not made, additional 
interest shall accrue pursuant to Rule 600 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  Such 

                                            7
---------------------Page 8---------------------

payment shall be: (A) made by United States postal money order, certified check, bank 
cashier's check or bank money order; (B) made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
Commission; (C) hand-delivered or mailed to the Office of Financial Management, 
Securities and Exchange Commission, Operations Center, 6432 General Green Way, Stop 
0-3, Alexandria, VA 22312; and (D) submitted under cover letter that identifies Royal 
Dutch Shell plc and Shell International Exploration and Production as Respondents in these 
proceedings, the file number of these proceedings, a copy of which cover letter and money 
order or check shall be sent to Laura B. Josephs, Assistant Director, Division of 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 
20549.   
        
 By the Commission. 
 
 
                                     Elizabeth M. Murphy 
     Secretary 
 
        

                                            8
---------------------Page 9---------------------

                                        Service List 
 
             Rule 141 of the Commissi on's Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or 
another duly authorized officer of the    Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order 
Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pu rsuant to Section 21C   of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing Sanctions and A Cease-and-Desist 
Order ("Order") on the Respondents and their legal agents. 
 
              The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled 
to notice: 
 
Honorable Brenda P. Murray                               
Chief Administrative Law Judge                         
Securities and Exchange Commission  
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-2557                      
 
Laura B. Josephs, Esq.  
Division of Enforcement                            
Securities and Exchange Commission                
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-5010A                  
  
Royal Dutch Shell plc 
c/o Ralph C. Ferrara, Esq. 
Dewey & LeBoeuf 
1101 New York Ave., N.W. 
Washington, DC 20005 
 
Shell International Exploration and Production Inc. 
c/o Ralph C. Ferrara, Esq. 
Dewey & LeBoeuf 
1101 New York Ave., N.W. 
Washington, DC 20005 
 
Ralph C. Ferrara, Esq. 

                                             9
---------------------Page 10---------------------

Dewey & LeBoeuf 
1101 New York Ave., N.W. 
Washington, DC 20005 
(Counsel for Respondents Royal Dutch Shell plc and Shell International Exploration and 
Production Inc.) 
      
        
    
    
 
 

                                         10
