---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                                
 
 UNITED                                STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                          the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 60575 / August 26, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3038 / August 26, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13600 
                                            
                                              : 
                                           :        
                                           :         
       In the Matter of                    :       ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                             :     PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
              L. Daniel Ferrer, Esq.,      :       102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                             :     PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
              Respondent.                  :       IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                       : 
                                                       : 
____________________________________ :               
                                                    
 
                                              I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against L. 
Daniel Ferrer (“Respondent” or “Ferrer”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules 
of Practice.1 
              

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 

       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any attorney . . . who has been 
by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her 
misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the 
violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                  
                                               II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Ferrer has submitted an Offer of 
Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose 
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the 
findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Ferrer consents to the entry of this 
Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules 
of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Ferrer’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
        
       1.     L. Daniel Ferrer (“Respondent” or “Ferrer”) is an attorney licensed to practice law 
in the State of Florida.  Ferrer was outside counsel for Weida Communications, Inc. during all 
times relevant to this Complaint.  He lives in Fort Lauderdale, Florida where his practice has 
included, among other things, representing clients in securities-related matters before the SEC and 
the NASD. 

       2.     Weida Communications, Inc.  (“Weida” or “com    pany”) was a New Jersey  
corporation which was headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Florida at all times relevant to this 
Complaint.  Weida marketed itself as providing ground-based transmitters and receivers that 
purportedly allowed corporate and government customers to use satellite communications in 
China.  During the relevant period, Weida’s common stock was registered with the Commission 
under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (OTC 
Bulletin Board) under the symbol WDAC.  On December 30, 2005, Weida announced that it had 
no effective interest in the China operations it had previously claimed to control.  On March 29, 
2006, Weida filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 7 of the United States Bankruptcy 
Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Ohio. 

       3.     On August 3, 2009, a final judgment was entered against Ferrer, permanently 
enjoining him from future violations of Sections 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 
thereunder in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. L. Daniel Ferrer, 
Civil Action Number 09-CV-61154, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of 
Florida.  Ferrer was also barred from participating in an offering of penny stock.   

       4.     As alleged in the complaint, from at least June 2004 through April 2005, two stock 
promoters who controlled Weida,  and closely affiliated stock brokers acting at their direction, 
engaged in a scheme to defraud which included manipulating and supporting the market price for 
Weida common stock at artificially high levels.  During this period, the stock price, as a 
consequence of the manipulation, allegedly did not accurately reflect the legitimate forces of 
supply and demand in a free and open market for the stock.  As further alleged in the complaint,  
two of the goals of the promoters of the manipulative scheme were facilitating the sale of Weida 
                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                                               
stock in private transactions at prices higher than the stock was actually worth, and attempting to 
satisfy the NASDAQ National Market's (now known as NASDAQ Global Market) listing 
requirements, which mandated that the stock must trade at $5 per share over a given time period to 
be eligible for listing.   Approximately 165 investors — many elderly and unsophisticated — 
allegedly paid approximately $9.2 million to Weida for near-worthless unregistered securities 
during the manipulation period as part of private  offerings orchestrated by the promoters.   

        5.      As further alleged in the complaint, in furtherance of      this scheme, Ferrer and one of 
the promoters used two brokerage accounts which Ferrer established in his own name and that of 
his law firm to execute transactions in Weida common stock on the open market.  These             
transactions in Weida stock executed in Ferrer’s accounts were alleged to have fraudulently 
supported the price of Weida stock at artificially inflated levels and given the false appearance of 
liquidity in the market for Weida stock.     
 
                                                     IV. 
                                                        
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Ferrer’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that Ferrer is suspended from  
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an attorney.                
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                            M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                      

                                                      3
  
