---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                  STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                            the 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  61262 / December 30, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3092 / December 30, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-13732 
                                               
                                                : 
                                              :       
                                              :        
In the Matter of                              :      ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                              :      PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
     STEPHEN C. GINGRICH (CPA)                :      102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                              :      PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
Respondent.                                   :      IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                         : 
                                                         : 
____________________________________ :        
                                                      
                                                  
                                                 I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Stephen  
C. Gingrich (“Respondent” or “G    ingrich”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1 
                     
                                                  
                                                II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these  proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”), wh ich the Commission has determined  to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the               
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public in         terest and without prelim inary hearing, may, by  
       order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has been by   
       name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her                        
       misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the  
       violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations thereunder.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisd  iction over him and the subject matter of these    
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III. 3.  below, which are admitted, Respondent  
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Maki  ng Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions        
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
                       
              1. 	    Gingrich, age 41, possesses a certifi  cate of certified public accountant 
                      (“CPA”) in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.  His license to practice has  
                      voluntarily been on inactive status since April 2002.  He has been employed  
                      by Home Solutions of America, Inc. (“HSOA”) sinc   e July 2006, and served 
                      as controller of its subsidiary Firelin e Restoration, Inc. (“Fireline”) from 
                      July 2006 through July 2008.   
                       
              2. 	    On November    30, 2009, the Commission filed  a Complaint in the U.S.   
                      District Court for the Northern District of Texas in a civil action captioned  
                      Securities and Exchange Commission v. Home Solutions of America, Inc., 
                      et al.,  Civil Action Number 3:09-CV- 02269-N.  The Complaint named 
                      Gingrich as a defendant.  As to Gingrich, the Complaint alleged that in 
                      connection with the preparation and a udit of HSOA’s financial statements 
                      for its year ended December 31, 2006     , and preparation and review of 
                      HSOA’s financial statements for its quarters ending March 31, 2007 and 
                      June 30, 2007, Gingrich (a) instructed Fireline employees to sign documents 
                      that materially misrepresented the progress of certain construction projects, 
                      and provided the documents to HSOA’s auditor; and (b) at the direction of  
                      HSOA’s chief financial officer, made accounting entries on Fireline’s books  
                      and records that materially misrepresented HSOA’s revenues.   
               
              3. 	    On December 10, 2009, the District Court entered an agreed final judgment 
                      against Gingrich, permanently enjoining him from direct or indirect future 
                      violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and  (3) of the Securities Act of 1933 and   
                      from aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the 
                      Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rules 12b-20,       13a-1, and 13a-13 
                      thereunder.  Gingrich was also ordered to pay a civil penalty of $25,000.   
                      Gingrich consented to the entry of the final judgment without admitting or 
                      denying the allegations made in the Commission’s Complaint. 
        
                                              IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Gingrich’s Offer.  
 

                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
       A. 	   Respondent is suspended from appeari ng or practicing before the Commission as 
              an accountant. 
       B. 	   After three years from the date of th  is order, Respondent may request that the 
              Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention:    
              Office of the Chief Accountant) to resu   me appearing or practicing before the 
              Commission as: 
              1. 	    a preparer or reviewer , or a person responsible   for the preparation or 
                      review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with 
                      the Commission. Such an applicati on must satisfy the Commission that 
                      Respondent’s work in his practi     ce before the Commission will be 
                      reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
                      for which he works or in some othe  r acceptable manner, as long as he 
                      practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
              2. 	    an independent accountant. Such an application must satisfy the 
                      Commission that: 
                      (a) 	  Respondent, or the public acc    ounting firm with which he is 
                             associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting        
                             Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley  
                             Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
                      (b) 	  Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
                             is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection   
                             did not identify any criticisms     of or potential defects in the 
                             Respondent’s or the firm’s qualit   y control system that would 
                             indicate that the Respondent       will not receive appropriate 
                             supervision; 
                      (c) 	  Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
                             has complied with all terms an     d conditions of any sanctions 
                             imposed by the Board (other than reinstatement by the               
                             Commission); and 
                      (d) 	  Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
                             Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an 
                             independent accountant, to comply  with all requirements of the 
                             Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
                             requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring 
                             partner reviews and quality control standards. 
 
       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
              or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current 

                                               3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                     and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
                     accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependant on reinstatement by the 
                     Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  
                     The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters 
                     referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, 
                     professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
                     Commission. 
           
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                                                M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                                          

                                                                     4
  
