---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 69860 / June 26, 2013 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3465 / June 26, 2013 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-15365
                                          
                                         : 
                                         :        
In the Matter of                         :      ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                        :       PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE   
Bruce W. Tomlinson, CPA  ,              :       102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                        :       PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
Respondent.                             :       IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                        :        
___________________________________ :             
                                          
 
                                            I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Bruce 
W. Tomlinson (“Respondent” or “Tomlinson”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1
                   
                                             

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings               
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
              1.      Tomlinson, age 53 and a resident of Los Altos, California, was the vice 
president, principal accounting officer, and controller of InterMune, Inc. (“InterMune”), from 2008 
to June 2012.  He has been licensed as a certified public accountant in the State of California since 
1988.  His license is currently inactive.   
        
              2.      InterMune, a Delaware corporation headquartered in Brisbane, California, is 
a pharmaceutical development company.  At all relevant times, InterMune’s common stock was 
registered with the Commission under Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Exchange Act”) and traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market.  During the relevant period, options 
in the common stock of InterMune traded on the Chicago Board Options Exchange, the 
Philadelphia Stock Exchange, the Boston Stock Exchange, the International Securities Exchange, 
the American Stock Exchange, and the New York Stock Exchange’s Arca System.  
        
              3.      On June 6, 2013, the Commission filed a complaint against Tomlinson in 
SEC v. Bruce W. Tomlinson (Case No. 3:13-cv-02549-JCS) in the United States District Court for 
the Northern District of California.  On June 20, 2013, the court entered a consent final judgment 
against Tomlinson permanently enjoining him from future violations of Section 10(b) of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, ordering him to pay a civil penalty of $616,000, and 
barring him for a period of five years from serving as an officer or director of any issuer that has a 
class of securities registered pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12 or that is required to file reports 
pursuant to Exchange Act Section 15(d).   
        
              4.      The complaint alleges that Tomlinson engaged in insider trading by tipping a 
friend and former business associate, Michael Sarkesian (“Sarkesian”), to material nonpublic 
information in advance of a December 17, 2010 announcement that the European Medicines 
Agency’s (“EMA”) Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (“CHMP”) had 
recommended that a European Union (“EU”) commission approve InterMune’s Marketing 
Authorization Application (“MAA”) for marketing its drug, Esbriet, in the EU.  The complaint 
alleges that by mid-November 2010, in the course of his employment, Tomlinson had become privy 

                                               2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

to material non-public information about the increasing probability that the CHMP would render a 
positive opinion and faster than had been publicly anticipated by InterMune.  Tomlinson allegedly 
tipped Sarkesian that, amongst other things, the European regulatory review process appeared “to be 
moving faster and better” than anticipated and that this impacted on “Company wide strategic 
decisions.”  According to the complaint, on December 7 and 8, 2010, in advance of the December 
17, 2010 announcement, Sarkesian directed the purchase of 400 out-of-the-money InterMune call 
options which resulted in imputed profits of $616,000.   
 
                                               IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Tomlinson’s Offer.  
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.     Tomlinson is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.  
 
       B.     After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                      (a)    Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)    Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 

                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                      (d)     Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
      
       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                    Secretary 
 

                                                4  
