---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 
 UNITED                                STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                         the 

 SECURITIES                         AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 64280 / April 8, 2011 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3267 / April 8, 2011 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14336 
                                                   ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                  ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-
                                            AND-DESIST PROC             EEDINGS PURSUANT 
In the Matter of                                   TO SECTIONS 4C AND 21C OF THE 
                                                   SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
       CHISHOLM, BIERWOLF,                         AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
       NILSON & MORRILL, LLC                       COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                                   MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
Respondent.                                        REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-
                                                   AND-DESIST ORDER  
 
 
 
                                                   
 
                                              I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate  that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Chisholm, 
Bierwolf, Nilson & Morrill, LLC (“Respondent”) pursuant to Sections 4C1
                                                                       and 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.2 
                  

                                                 
1 
       Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:    
 
       The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the privilege                       
of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way,  if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the   
requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be   lacking in character or integrity, or to have engaged in  
unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have   willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the 
violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.   
 
2 
       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that:  
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
                                                   
                                                 II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making 
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth 
below. 
 
                                                 III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds    3
                                                                                    that:  
 
   A.   SUMMARY  
            
       1.       From year-end 2004 through the first quarter of 2008, Powder River Petroleum 
International, Inc. (“Powder River” or “the company”) improperly accounted for over $43 million 
in proceeds from conveyances of fractional working interests in oil-and-gas leases to investors in 
Asia.  In particular, Powder River immediately recognized revenue from the conveyances, despite 
the fact that it had promised the Asian working interest investors a guaranteed return until they 
recouped their initial investment.  In addition, Powder River also improperly recorded assets it did 
not own or that were stated in excess of net realizable value.  As a result, Powder River’s financial 
statements did not present fairly, in all material respects, the company’s financial position, 
operating results, and cash flows in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.  
Powder River materially overstated its revenues by 7% to 2,417%, its pre-tax income by 18% to 
441%, and its assets by 7% to 48% in its Commission filings during the applicable period.  
        
       2.       From year-end 2004 through the first quarter of 2008, Powder River engaged 
Respondent to conduct annual audits and quarterly reviews of Powder River’s financial statements.  
Respondent failed to conduct these engagements  in accordance with Public Company Accounting 
Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) Standards.  Respondent also failed to have procedures in place to 
detect fraud and to evaluate Powder River’s ability to continue as a going concern.  Respondent’s  
failures as Powder River’s auditor were a cause of Powder River’s filing of false and misleading Forms 
                                                                                                                                                             
       The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before  
it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct.                                      
 
 
3 
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any    
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
                                                  2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
10-QSB and 10-KSB.  Accordingly, Respondent   engaged in improper professional conduct,  violated 
Sections 10A(a)(1) and 10A(a)(3) of the Exchange Act, and was a cause of Powder River’s violations   
of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13 and 12b-20 thereunder.   
        
   B.   RESPONDENT  
 
       3.      Chisholm, Bierwolf, Nilson & Morrill, LLC (“Chisholm Bierwolf”), a PCAOB-
registered audit firm with offices in Bountiful and Layton, Utah, and its predecessors, have been  
Powder River’s auditor since 2001. 
 
   C.   RELEVANT INDIVIDUALS AND ENTITY 
 
       4.      Todd D. Chisholm (“Chisholm”) is a certified public accountant licensed in the 
state of Utah.  He became an audit partner for Respondent in 1995, and he served as the firm’s 
managing partner from 2004 to 2010.  Chisholm was the engagement partner on the audits and 
quarterly reviews of Powder River from 2004 through the third quarter of 2007, and supervised 
Respondent’s engagements to audit and review Powder River’s financial statements throughout 
that period. 
        
       5.      Troy F. Nilson (“Nilson”)  is a certified public accountant licensed in the state of 
Utah and          has been an audit partner of Respondent from 2004 to the present.  Nilson was the 
engagement partner on Powder River’s audit and quarterly review for year-end 2007 and the first 
quarter of 2008, and supervised Respondent’s engagements to audit and review Powder River’s 
financial statements in those periods. 
        
       6.      Powder River Petroleum International, Inc.                        is an Oklahoma corporation 
headquartered in Calgary, Canada.  The company’s common stock is registered with the  
Commission pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12(g).  Powder River’s shares are currently quoted  
on Pink OTC Markets, Inc.  In  July 2008, an Oklahoma district court granted a temporary 
restraining order and appointed a receiver for Powder River in connection with a complaint filed 
by certain Asian investors.4
                            In December 2008, Powder River filed for bankruptcy. 5
                                                                                    It has not 
restated its financial statements, other than a restatement of its 2007 quarterly financial statements  
included in its year-end 2007 financial statements, nor has it filed any reports with the Commission 
since September 17, 2008. 
            
   D.   FACTS 
            
       Oil-and-Gas Working Interest Conveyances   
        
        7.      From year-end 2004 through the first quarter of 2008, Powder River offered and 
sold working interests in its oil-and-gas leases through an independent sales agent to investors in 
                                                 
4 
       See  Chang v. Powder River Petroleum Int’l, Inc. (Okla. Dist. Ct. July 14, 2008) (No. CJ-2008-4855). 
 
5 
       See  In re Powder River Petroleum Int’l, Inc. (Bankr. W.D. Okla. Dec. 12, 2008) (No. 08-15613).  
                                                3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia.  Powder River’s contracts with Asian investors provided that 
they would receive guaranteed payments yielding an annual minimum of 9%, and in some cases 
more, beginning approximately six months after the date of investment until investors reached the 
“break-even point,” i.e. when their principal had been repaid (the “guaranteed payments”).  
Thereafter, investors received lease production payments based on their respective working 
interests.  By the second quarter of 2007, Powder River’s guaranteed payments exceeded not only 
the investors’ share of oil-and-gas production revenues, but also Powder River’s total production 
revenues.  After that date, Powder River used proceeds from working interest conveyances to new 
investors to fund guaranteed payments to earlier investors.  
         
        8.     From year-end 2004 through the first quarter of 2008, Powder River improperly 
recognized as revenue over $33.5 million in proceeds from conveyances of the working interests to 
investors.  These conveyances were in substance and should have been reported by Powder River  
as borrowings, not revenue (see Financial Accounting Standards No. 19,   Financial Accounting and 
Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Companies, paragraph 43).  The investors’ contractual right 
to receive guaranteed payments until their “break-even point” represented, in substance, a loan of 
capital to Powder River at a guaranteed 9% minimum rate of return.  As a result of  Powder River’s  
improper accounting, the company materially overstated its revenues in its Forms 10-QSB, 10-Q, 
10-KSB and 10-K for the year ended December  31, 2004 through the quarter ended March 31, 
2008 by 7% to 2,417% and its net pre-tax income by 18% to 441%.   
 
        9.     Respondent Chisholm Bierwolf conducted audits and quarterly reviews of Powder 
River’s financial statements from year-end 2004 through the first quarter of 2008.  Chisholm 
supervised Respondent’s audits and quarterly reviews from year-end 2004 through the third quarter 
of 2007.  During Respondent’s 2004 and 2005 audits, and quarterly reviews during 2005 and 2006, 
Chisholm failed to examine the documents underlying the working interest conveyances or to 
question Powder River’s improper revenue recognition of conveyance proceeds.  Instead he relied, 
without further inquiry, on the Powder River CEO’s characterization of the working interest 
conveyances as “sales.”  As a result, Powder River: a) failed to disclose and account properly for 
the guaranteed payments; and b) improperly reported the working interest conveyance proceeds as  
revenue in financial statements included in its 2004 and 2005 Forms 10-KSB and its Forms 10­
QSB from the first quarter of 2005 through the third quarter of 2006.   
         
        10.    During Powder River’s 2006 audit, Chisholm became aware of Powder River’s 9% 
payments to the working interest investors, but failed to inquire further about them or consider how 
those payments might affect Powder River’s revenue recognition or whether the company should 
disclose its payment obligation in its 2006 financial statements.  As a result, Powder River 
continued to record the working interest conveyance proceeds as revenue, failed to disclose the 
guaranteed payments, and improperly offset the guaranteed payments against the company’s oil-
and-gas production receipts.   
         
        11.    In the second quarter of 2007, when the guaranteed payments exceeded Powder 
River’s entire oil-and-gas receipts, the company began recording the guaranteed payments on its 
balance sheet as an asset labeled “pre-paid production payments.”  Chisholm was aware of these 

                                               4
  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 
facts.  Yet, during 2007 quarterly reviews, he again failed to consider the impact of the guaranteed 
payments on Powder River’s revenue recognition or to inquire further whether Powder River’s 
accounting for those payments was correct.  Chisholm also failed to consider whether Powder 
River should disclose its guaranteed payment obligation.  As a result of the foregoing, Powder 
River continued to record the working interest conveyance proceeds as revenue, failed to disclose 
the guaranteed payments, and mischaracterized those payments as an asset in its financial 
statements included in its second and third quarter 2007 Forms 10- QSB.  
         
        12.    Nilson supervised Powder River’s 2007 audit and first-quarter 2008 review.  
During the 2007 audit, Nilson examined some of the contracts underlying the working interest 
conveyances, which described the guaranteed payments, and determined that Powder River’s 
accounting for those payments as an asset was improper.  The company filed a Form 8-K on March 
17, 2008, which disclosed the guaranteed payments  and indicated that the company’s second and 
third quarter 2007 financial statements could not  be relied upon.  When Powder River filed its 
2007 Form 10-K and first- quarter 2008 Form 10-Q, the company disclosed the guaranteed 
payments as a future commitment in its financial statement footnotes.  Nilson failed, however, to 
consider whether, as a result of the guaranteed payment provisions, the conveyances should have  
been reported as borrowings rather than sales.  As a result, the company continued to improperly 
report the proceeds from its working interest conveyances as revenues.   
        
        13.    Furthermore, Nilson was aware that Powder River’s guaranteed payments exceeded 
the company’s total oil-and-gas revenues for 2007.  Yet, he failed to include a “going concern” 
paragraph in Chisholm Bierwolf  audit opinion, despite substantial reason to doubt that Powder 
River’s future oil-and-gas revenues, which were only $3.3 million in 2007, would be sufficient to 
cover the $6.1 million of guaranteed payments due in 2008.  
 
       Inflated Assets   
 
       14.     Powder River reported assets that it did not own, that did not exist, or that it should 
have written in financial statements included in its 2005, 2006 and 2007 Forms 10-KSB and 10-K 
and for its Forms 10-QSB and 10-Q for the for the first, second and third quarters of 2005, 2006, 
and 2007 and the first quarter of 2008.  During the company’s 2005, 2006 and 2007 audits, 
Respondent failed to conduct sufficient audit procedures to support the recorded oil-and-gas assets 
and a “loan receivable”; otherwise it would have discovered information that indicated a 
significant amount of such assets should be removed from Powder River’s financial statements.  
As a result, the company overstated its assets by 7% to 48%.                                
             
       15.     In particular, Powder River  improperly included as assets on its financial statements  
two oil-and-gas leases it had agreed, but failed, to acquire.  Specifically, in 2005, Powder River  
made $500,000 in nonrefundable payments as a part of an agreement to acquire a New Mexico oil-
and-gas lease for $5 million, but by August 2005 it had defaulted on the terms of the agreement 
and lost its rights to the lease. Nonetheless, Powder River continued to report the lease as an asset 
on its balance sheet from the third quarter of 2005 through the first quarter of 2008, which was its 
last quarterly report.  Similarly, Powder River made nonrefundable payments totaling $1.5 million 

                                               5
  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 
in late 2006 and early 2007 as part of an agreement to acquire a Texas oil-and-gas lease for $6.5 
million.  The company reported the lease, along with an associated note payable, as assets on its 
balance sheet from year-end 2006 onward.  In reality, the agreement was never consummated, no 
note agreement was ever executed, and by the end of 2007 Powder River had forfeited its 
payments.   
 
       16.     During Powder River’s 2005 and 2006 audits, Chisholm failed to review the oil-
and-gas lease purchase documents for the New Mexico and Texas l  eases and to obtain adequate  
documentation for the $2 million paid to third-parties in the failed lease purchases.  During the 
2006 audit, Chisholm also failed to perform adequate alternate procedures even though:  a) 
documents provided by Powder River to Respondent indicated the Texas lease purchase agreement 
terms expired in December 2006; and b) Respondent received an irregular confirmation of the 
purported $5 million promissory note. 
        
       17.     During Powder River’s 2007 audit, Nilson failed to perform procedures to verify 
the existence and ownership of the New Mexico and Texas leases, despite the size of the assets and 
the fact that the company had not paid any significant development costs or taxes on the properties  
in 2007.  Nilson did not review the oil-and-gas  lease purchase documents or any promissory note 
agreement on the Texas lease.  During the 2007 audit, Nilson requested confirmation of the 
purported $5 million promissory note on the Texas lease, but failed to perform sufficient 
alternative procedures when the confirmation was not returned.    
        
       18.     In addition, Powder River listed a $1.2 million item as a “loan receivable” on the 
company’s balance sheet in its 2007 Form 10-K financial statements.  In prior periods, this item 
was reported as a cash or cash equivalent.  Despite this unexplained change in accounting 
treatment and the fact that no payments had ever been made on the loan receivable, Nilson failed to 
obtain documentation of the purported loan receivable or to perform any procedures to evaluate the 
collectability of the loan.  Further, Nilson failed to identify that the loan receivable had not been 
disclosed as a related party transaction in compliance with Statement  of Financial Accounting 
Standard No. 57, Related Party Disclosures. 
 
       Failure to Assess the Work of a Professional  

       19.     At year-end 2005 and 2006, oil-and-gas properties represented 62% and 67%, 
respectively, of Powder River’s total assets.  In auditing Powder River’s 2005 and 2006 financial 
statements, Respondent and Chisholm obtained and relied upon brief excerpts from oil-and-gas  
reserve reports.  He did little, if anything, to: a) evaluate the qualifications of the petroleum engineer  
who prepared the oil-and-gas reserve reports; b) understand the nature of the work performed in 
preparing the oil-and-gas reserve reports; and c)  evaluate the petroleum engineer’s relationship to  
Powder River.  Prior to the completion of the 2005 audit, Chisholm learned that the Commission’s 
Division of Corporation Finance staff had issued comments, some of which addressed Powder 
River’s oil-and-gas reserves, on its 2004 Form 10-KSB, and participated in at least one telephone 
call regarding the company’s response to those comments.  Chisholm knew or should have known 
that the staff’s comments and Powder River’s responses thereto raised questions as  to: a) the 
qualifications of the engineer who prepared the reserve reports; b) the adequacy of the reserve 
                                               6
  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 
reports to support disclosures made in the financial statements; and c) conformity of the reserve 
reports with Rule 4-10 of Regulation S-X.  Accordingly, Respondent and Chisholm failed to adhere  
to the guidance contained in AU 336, Using the Work of a Specialist, and failed to obtain sufficient  
competent evidential matter to support Respondent’s report on Powder River’s 2005 and 2006 
financial statements.  
               
       20.     Powder River’s year-end 2005 and 2006 financial statements disclosed 
supplementary, unaudited footnote information required under Statement of Financial Accounting 
Standards No. 69, Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities.  Despite the questions raised 
by the staff’s comments on Powder River’s 2004 Form 10-KSB, Respondent and Chisholm failed to  
comply with the provisions of AU §9558, Required Supplementary Information; Auditing 
Interpretation of Section 558, while supervising Powder River’s 2005 and 2006 audits.  AU §9558 
states that if an auditor believes that information may not be presented within the applicable 
guidelines he ordinarily should make additional inquiries.  Respondent and Chisholm had reason to 
believe that Powder River’s footnote information may not have been presented within applicable  
guidelines.  Therefore, they ordinarily should have made additional  inquiries, but failed to do so.  
        
       21.     At year-end 2007, oil-and-gas properties represented approximately 82% of Powder 
River’s total assets.  The company, however, failed to obtain new or updated reserve reports in  
2007, instead relying on the reports that it had used in connection with the 2006 audit.  In auditing 
Powder River’s 2007 financial statements, Respondent and Nilson relied on the work performed in  
the audit of Powder River’s 2006 financial statements, without performing procedures to test or 
verify the scope or adequacy of that prior audit work or the 2006 reserve reports.  Respondent and 
Nilson did nothing to:  a) evaluate the qualifications of the petroleum engineer who prepared the oil-
and-gas reserve reports; b) understand the nature of the work performed in  preparing the oil-and-gas 
reserve reports; and c) evaluate the petroleum engineer’s relationship to Powder River.  They  knew 
or should have known that Powder River’s failure to obtain new or updated reserve reports raised 
questions as to: a) the qualifications of the engineer who prepared the reserve reports and b) the 
adequacy of the reserve reports to support disclosures made in the financial statements.  
Accordingly, Respondent and Nilson failed to adhere to the guidance contained in AU 336, Using  
the Work of a Specialist, and failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to support  
Respondent’s report on Powder River’s 2007 financial statements.  
               
       Creation of Audit Documents  
 
       22.     Prior to a PCAOB inspection  in 2007, Chisholm and Nilson created and back-dated 
and directed Respondent’s staff to create and back-date audit planning and other documents more  
than 45 days after the documentation completion dates for the 2006 audit of Powder River’s 
financial statements.  Respondent, Chisholm, and Nilson failed to document in the workpapers the  
dates that these changes were made, the names of the persons who made them, and the reasons for  
adding information.  They also failed to notify the PCAOB inspection team that changes had been  
made to the audit files without appropriately documenting those changes.   As a result, Respondent 
failed to comply with PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 3, Audit Documentation,  in addition to 
violating PCAOB rules.   Respondent produced those documents to SEC staff during its 

                                               7
  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 
investigation, without disclosing that they had been back-dated or created after the document 
completion deadlines.  
 
       Failure to Conduct Audits in Accordance with PCAOB Standards        
 
       23.     As the foregoing conduct demonstrates, Respondent failed to conduct Powder 
River’s 2004 through 2007 audits in accordance with PCAOB Standards and Rules.  Specifically, 
Respondent, failed to:   
            
                      a.      Adequately plan audits and properly train and supervise assistants, 
under AU 311, ¶8, Planning & Supervision; 
                       
                      b.      Gather sufficient competent evidential matter, under AU 326, ¶13, 
Audit Evidence, to support the characterization of Powder River’s revenue and Respondent’s 
conclusions on company assets;  
                       
                      c.       Exercise due professional care and skepticism, under AU 230, ¶¶9, 
25, Due Professional Care in the Performance of Work, as illustrated by repeated failures to 
review underlying documentation, undue reliance on management, and failure to respond 
appropriately to “red flags;”  
                       
                      d.      Consider whether, under AU 336, ¶¶8, 9, Using the Work of a 
Specialist, Powder River’s petroleum engineers possessed the necessary qualifications for their 
work to be used as audit evidence; 
                       
                      e.       Make additional inquiries under AU §9558, Required Supplementary 
Information; Auditing Interpretation of Section 558, although Respondent had reason to believe that  
Powder River’s oil-and-gas reserves footnote information may not have been presented within 
applicable guidelines;  
                       
                      f.       Evaluate, under AU 341, ¶3, The Auditor's Consideration of an 
Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern, Powder River’s ability to continue as a going 
concern even though the fact that Powder River’s total revenues were significantly less than its 
guaranteed payment obligations should have raised substantial doubt about its ability to continue as 
a going concern; 
 
                      g.      Perform sufficient alternative procedures, under AU 330, ¶31, The 
Confirmation Process, when Respondent did not receive pr oper confirmations of a promissory  
note and a loan receivable; and  
        
                      h.      Properly prepare audit documentation, under PCAOB Auditing 
Standard No. 3, ¶15, Audit Documentation, as demonstrated by after-the-fact creation and back­
dating of audit planning documents and checklists.  
 

                                               8
  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

 
       24.     Furthermore, Respondent did not have procedures in place designed to provide 
reasonable assurance of detecting illegal acts that would have a direct and material effect on 
Powder River’s financial statement amounts, as required by Section 10A(a)(1) of the Exchange 
Act.  This was demonstrated by Chisholm and Nilson’s failure to recognize Powder River’s 
improper revenue recognition, their failure to identify assets improperly included on its balance 
sheet, and their reliance on non-SEC compliant reserve reports that failed to support Powder 
River’s reported reserves.  
        
       25.     Respondent also did not include in the 2007 audit an evaluation of whether there 
was substantial doubt about the ability of Powder River to continue as a going concern during the 
ensuing fiscal year, as required by Section 10A(a)(3) of the Exchange Act.  This is demonstrated 
by Nilson’s failure to recognize that Powder River’s total revenues in 2007 were significantly less  
than its guaranteed payment obligations for the following year, which should have raised  
substantial doubt about the company’s ability to continue as a going concern.  
                
   E.   VIOLATIONS   
  
       26.     Exchange Act Section 10A(a)(1) requires each audit to include procedures designed 
to provide reasonable assurance of detecting illegal acts that would have a direct and material 
effect on the determination of financial statement amounts, and Section 10A(a)(3) requires each 
audit to include an evaluation of whether there is substantial doubt about the ability of the issuer to 
continue as a going concern during the  ensuing fiscal year.  No showing of scienter is necessary to 
establish a violation of Section 10A.  See SEC v. Solucorp Indus., Ltd., 197 F. Supp. 2d 4 
(S.D.N.Y. 2002). 
        
       27.     As discussed above, Respondent violated Sections 10A(a)(1) and 10A(a)(3) by 
failing to have adequate procedures in place during Powder River’s 2004 through 2007 audits to: 
1) reasonably assure detection of illegal acts, such as Powder River’s undisclosed guaranteed 
payments (from 2004 through 2006), its material overstatement of its revenues, improperly 
recorded assets on its balance sheet, its materially overstated oil and gas reserves, and Powder 
River’s payments of later working interest conveyance proceeds to earlier working interest 
investors, which materially affected the determination of financial statement amounts; and 2) to 
evaluate whether there was substantial doubt about Powder River’s ability to continue as a going 
concern during the  2007 audit. 
        
       28.     Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13, and 12b-20 thereunder, 
require every issuer of a security registered purs uant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act file with 
the Commission information, documents, and annual and quarterly reports as the Commission 
may require, and mandate that periodic reports contain such further material information as may 
be necessary to make the required statements not misleading.  The obligation to file such reports                                    
embodies the requirement that they be true and correct.  See, e.g., SEC v. Savoy Indus., Inc., 587 
F.2d 1149, 1165 (D.C. Cir. 1978), cert. denied, 440 U.S. 913 (1979).   
        

                                                9
  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

 
       29.     As discussed above, from year-end 2004 through the first quarter of 2008, 
Respondent’s failures were a cause of Powder  River’s filing of false and misleading periodic 
reports with the Commission.  Accordingly, Respondent was a cause  of Powder River’s violations 
of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13, and 12b-20 thereunder. 
        
       30.     Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Section 4C of the 
Exchange Act authorize the Commission to censure or deny, temporarily or permanently, the  
privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission to accountants who are found to have  
engaged in improper professional conduct.  Under Rule 102(e)(1)(iv), the term “improper 
professional conduct” means, in part, “repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting 
in a violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice 
before the Commission.”  Respondent’s actions were unreasonable and failed to conform to 
applicable professional standards.  Accordingly, Respondent’s conduct supports an action under 
Rules 102(e)(1)(ii) and 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) of the Rules of Practice. 
               
   F.   FINDINGS  
 
       31.     Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent violated Sections 
10A(a)(1) and 10A(a)(3) of the Exchange Act, and was a cause of Powder River’s violations of 
Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13, and 12b-20 promulgated thereunder.  
        
       32.     Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent engaged in 
improper professional conduct pursuant to Rules 102(e)(1)(ii) and 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice.  
 
   G.   UNDERTAKING 
 
       33.     Cooperation. Respondent undertakes to cooperate fully with the Commission 
with respect to any matter relating to the Commission's investigation of Powder River or its 
current or former officers, directors, employees, or auditors, including but not limited to any 
litigation or other proceeding related to or resulting from that investigation.  Such cooperation 
shall include, but is not limited to, upon reasonable notice and without subpoena:  

              a.       Producing any document, record, or other tangible evidence reasonably 
requested by Commission staff in connection with the Commission's investigation, litigation or 
other proceedings; 

              b.      Providing all information reasonably requested by Commission staff in 
connection with the Commission's investigation; and  

              c.       Attending and providing truthful statements at any meeting, interview, 
testimony, deposition, trial, or other legal proceeding reasonably requested by the Commission 
staff.  

                                              10
  
---------------------Page 11---------------------

 
         34.      In determining whether to accept the Offer, the Commission has considered these 
undertakings. 
 
                                                          IV. 
                                                             
         In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
         Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
    A.   Respondent shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future 
violations of Sections 10A(a)(1) and 10A(a)(3) of the Exchange Act.  
 
    B.   Respondent shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13, and 12b-20 
promulgated thereunder.  
 
    C.   Respondent is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
 By the Commission.                
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                                   M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                             

                                                          11
  
---------------------Page 12---------------------

 
                                            Service List  
 
       Rule 141 of the Commission's Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or another duly 
authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order Instituting Public 
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making 
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order ("Order"), on the 
Respondent and its legal agent. 
 
       The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to 
notice:  
 
Honorable Brenda P. Murray                              
Chief Administrative Law Judge                          
Securities and Exchange Commission  
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-2557                 
 
Shoshana Thoma-Isgur, Esq. 
Fort Worth Regional Office                               
Securities and Exchange Commission              
801 Cherry Street, Suite 1900  
Fort Worth, TX 76102                               
  
Mr. Troy F. Nilson, Managing Member 
Chisholm, Bierwolf, Nilson & Morrill, LLC                              
c/o Douglas E. Griffith, Esq. 
Kesler & Rust 
68 South Main Street, 2nd Floor  
Salt Lake City, UT 84101                                    
                                                      
Douglas E. Griffith, Esq. 
Kesler & Rust 
68 South Main Street, 2nd Floor  
Salt Lake City, UT 84101 
(Counsel for Chisholm, Bierwolf, Nilson & Mo  

                                                 12
  
