---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 65759 / November 16, 2011 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3338 / November 16, 2011 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14629 
 
                                              
In the Matter of                            ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                            ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS AND 
      PAUL FREE, CPA                        IMPOSING TEMPORARY SUSPENSION 
                                            PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
             Respondent.                    COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE  
                                                                 
                                                        
 
                                            I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to 
Rule 102(e)(3)1
               of the Commission’s Rules of Practice against Paul Free  (“Respondent” or 
“Free”).   
 
                                           II. 
 
      The Commission finds that: 
       

                                                 
1
             Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

       A.      RESPONDENT 
 
               1.     Free, age 55, a resident of Oakland, Michigan, is and has been a certified 
public accountant (“CPA”) licensed to practice in the State of Missouri.  Between 1998 and 2002, 
Free served as Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Delphi Corporation.   
 
       B.      CIVIL INJUNCTION 
   
               2.     On October 31, 2011, the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of 
Michigan entered a final judgment against Free, permanently enjoining him from violating and/or 
aiding and abetting violations of Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B) and 13(b)(5) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rules 10b-5  , 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-13, 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 
thereunder.  Securities and Exchange Commission v. Delp  hi Corporation, et al., Civil Action 
Number 06-14891-Civ (E.D. Mich.)(Cohn, J.)(Dkt.378).   
        
               3.     The Commission’s complaint alleged that, while serving as Controller and 
Chief Accounting Officer of Delphi, Free engaged in conduct, detailed below, that resulted in 
Delphi materially misstating its financial condition and operating results in filings with the 
Commission, in offering documents, and in other statements to investors.  
                
               4.     The Commission’s complaint alleged that in the third quarter of 2000, 
Delphi improperly accounted for and disclosed a payment that it made to its former parent 
company, pursuant to a settlement agreement.  Delphi treated the payment as if it related primarily 
to certain pension and other post-employment benefit matters, even though Delphi officers and 
employees, including Free, knew that the settlement in fact related exclusively to the warranty 
claims.  As a result of these mischaracterizations, Delphi overstated its originally reported earnings 
per share (“EPS”) for the third quarter 2000.  The Commission alleged that several Delphi officers 
and employees, including Free, were responsible for this conduct.2
                                                                  
                
               5.     The Commission’s complaint further alleged that in the fourth quarter of 
2000, Delphi sold $270 million of inventory to two third parties, while simultaneously agreeing to 
repurchase the inventory in the following quarter for the original sales price, plus approximately $4 
million in interest charges and structuring fees.  By improperly accounting for the transactions as 
sales, rather than financing transactions, Delphi improperly recognized approximately $200 million 
in cash flow from operations.  The Commission alleged that several Delphi officers and 
employees, including Free, were responsible for this fraudulent conduct.  
                
               6.     The Commission’s complaint further alleged that in the fourth quarter of 
2001, Delphi solicited a $20 million lump sum payment from its largest IT service provider (the 
“IT Provider”) in return for Delphi providing new business to the IT Provider and agreeing to 
repay the $20 million, with interest, over a five-year period.  Despite knowing that this payment 

                                                 
2
 The jury did not find that Free’s conduct violated the anti-fraud provisions of the securities 
laws on this transaction, but found instead that Free had violated the books and records and 
misrepresentations to auditors provisions of the securities laws. 
                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

should have been accounted for by Delphi as a Delphi liability to the IT Provider, Delphi and 
personnel of the IT Provider misrepresented the nature of the payment so that Delphi could 
improperly account for the payment as an immediate reduction of information technology expense 
in the fourth quarter.  This resulted in Delphi overstating its originally reported EPS in 2001 for the 
fourth quarter.  The Commission alleged that several Delphi officers and employees, including 
Free, were responsible for this fraudulent conduct.    
                                                   
                                                III. 
        
       Based upon the foregoing, the Commission finds that a court of competent jurisdiction has 
permanently enjoined Free  , a CPA, from violating the Federal securities laws within the meaning 
of Rule 102(e)(3)(i)(A) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  In view of these findings, the 
Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest that Free  be temporarily suspended 
from appearing or practicing before the Commission. 
   
       IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Free         be, and hereby is, temporarily suspended from 
appearing or practicing before the Commission.  This Order shall be effective upon service on the 
Respondent. 
 
       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Free may within thirty days after service of this Order 
file a petition with the Commission to lift the temporary suspension.  If the Commission within 
thirty days after service of the Order receives no petition, the suspension shall become permanent 
pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(ii). 
  
        If a petition is received within thirty days after service of this Order, the Commission shall, 
within thirty days after the filing of the petition, either lift the temporary suspension, or set the 
matter down for hearing at a time and place to be designated by the Commission, or both.   If a 
hearing is ordered, following the hearing, the Commission may lift the suspension, censure the 
petitioner, or disqualify the petitioner from appearing or practicing before the Commission for a 
period of time, or permanently, pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(iii). 
 
       This Order shall be served upon Free personally or by certified mail at his last known 
address. 
        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                                                     Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                                                     Secretary 
 

                                                 3  
