---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                          Before the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 68661 / January 15, 2013 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3441 / January 15, 2013 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15175 
 
                                                 
In the Matter of                                ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                               ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
                                               PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                               COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
       Kevin A. Howard, CPA                    MAKING FINDINGS AND IMPOSING 
                                               REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
 
                                                                    
             Respondent. 
 
 
                                              I. 

              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in 
the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
Kevin A. Howard (“Respondent” or “Howard”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice. 1
                                 

                                              II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (“Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose 
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 

                                                 
1
       Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 

       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by order, . . . 
suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has been by name . . . [p]ermanently 
enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the 
Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of 
the rules and regulations thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the 
findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry 
of this Order Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), 
as set forth below. 

                                              III. 

              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 

       1.     Kevin A. Howard, age 49, resides in Houston, Texas.  From 1986 until 1998, 
Howard was a CPA licensed to practice in the State of Texas.  Between August 1999 and 
September 2001, Howard served as Chief Financial Officer and Vice President of Finance for 
Enron Broadband Services (“EBS”), a subsidiary of Enron Corp. (“Enron”).     Howard was 
terminated by Enron on March 12, 2003.   

       2.     Enron was, at all relevant times, an Oregon corporation with its principal place of 
business in Houston, Texas.  Until its bankruptcy filing in December 2001, Enron was the 
seventh largest corporation in the United States based upon reported revenue.  In the previous ten 
years, Enron had evolved from a regional natural gas provider to a commodity trader of natural 
gas, electricity, and other physical commodities with retail operations in energy and other 
products.  Enron also created and traded financial products.  At all relevant times, the common 
stock of Enron was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and traded on the New York Stock Exchange. 

       3.     On January 4 , 2013, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas, 
Houston Division, entered a final judgment by consent against Respondent, permanently 
enjoining him from violating Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”); 
permanently enjoining him from violating Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act   and 
Exchange Act Rules 10b-5 and 13b2-1; and permanently enjoining him from aiding and abetting 
the violation of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) and (B) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act 
Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13, in the civil action entitled  Securities and Exchange 
Commission v. Kevin A. Howard, et al., Civil Action Number H-03-0905 (S.D. Tex.).  The final 
judgment also prohibits Respondent from serving as an officer or director of any issuer that has a 
class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act or that is required to file 
reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.  Respondent was also ordered to pay a 
$65,000 civil money penalty. 

       4.           The Commission’s First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleged, among other 
things, that Respondent engaged in a fraudulent scheme known as “Project Braveheart,” which 
involved the “monetization” of certain assets resulting in the immediate recognition of earnings 
from a long term agreement with Blockbuster Inc. to develop and provide video-on-demand 
services.  Respondent carried out the scheme by forming a purported joint venture, assigning the 
Blockbuster agreement to the joint venture, and selling an interest in the joint venture based on 
the value of future revenues from the Blockbuster agreement to a third party.  The FAC further 
alleged that Project Braveheart was a sham from its inception since it had no economic substance 

                                               2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

and was created solely for the purpose of generating earnings.  Additionally, the FAC alleged 
that Respondent was aware that the joint venture partner was an entity that never intended to 
participate as a partner, and its equity was not at risk because Enron guaranteed the entity a short 
term take-out at a specified rate of return.  The FAC alleged that Respondent did not inform 
Enron’s outside auditor, Arthur Andersen, about the true nature of the transaction, and in 
meetings and conversations with Andersen made false and misleading statements about the 
transaction.  As a result, EBS recognized $  53 million in earnings in the fourth quarter of 2000 
and $58 million in earnings in the first quarter of 2001, thus enabling EBS to meet its earnings 
targets.   

                                                  IV. 

        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest 
to impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Howard’s Offer. 

        Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, effective immediately, that:               

        Howard is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   

               
        By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                                                                  Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                                                     Secretary 
 
  
` 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                   3 
 
