---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                         Before the 
 SECURITIES                       AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 64190 / April 5, 2011 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3260 / April 5, 2011 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-14323 
 
                                              
In the Matter of                            ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC  
                                            ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS AND 
       MICHAEL C. PATTISON,                 IMPOSING TEMPORARY SUSPENSION 
      CPA                                   PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e)(3) OF THE 
                                            COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE 
             Respondent.                                         
 
                                                 
                                           I.  
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to 
Rule 102(e)(3)1
               of the Commission’s Rules of Practice against Michael C. Pattison (“Respondent” 
or “Pattison”). 

                                                 
1 
      Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
      The Commission, with due regard to the public  interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has  
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any c ourt of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder.  
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
                                              II. 
        
       The Commission finds that: 
        
       A. RESPONDENT           
 
              1.      Pattison, age 46, is and has been a certified public accountant (“CPA”)  
licensed to practice in the State of California.  From January 2000 to July 2005, Respondent served 
as the Controller of Embarcadero Technologies, Inc. (“Embarcadero”), a San Francisco software 
company.  Prior to joining Embarcadero, from 1987 until 1998, Respondent worked as an 
accountant at a series of San Francisco accounting firms.   
                 
        B.    CIVIL INJUNCTION  
   
              2.      On February 23, 2011, the United States District Court for the Northern  
 District of California entered an amended final judgment against Respondent.                                       SEC v. Pattison, 
 C-08-4238 EMC (N.D. Cal.).  The final judgment, as amended, followed a jury trial in which the 
 jury found that Respondent violated Section 13(b)(5) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 
 (“Exchange Act”), and Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1.    
               
              3.      The final judgment, as amended, among other things, permanently enjoins  
 Respondent from future violations, direct or indirect, of Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and 
 Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1.  It also requires Respondent to pay disgorgement, including 
 prejudgment interest thereon, in the total amount of $74,446, and to pay a civil penalty in the 
 amount of $50,000.   
        
              4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that from at least  
 2000 through 2005, Respondent intentionally falsified numerous books, records, and accounts in 
 connection with the backdating of stock options granted to Embarcadero’s employees.  It further  
 alleged that Respondent knowingly circumvented Embarcadero’s internal accounting controls in 
 order to avoid recording compensation expenses related to the backdated, in-the-money stock 
 options, during the same time period.      
               
                                              III. 
        
       Based upon the foregoing, the Commission finds that a court of competent jurisdiction has  
permanently enjoined Respondent, a CPA, from violating the federal securities laws within the  
meaning of Rule  102(e)(3)(i)(A) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  In view of these findings, 
the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest that Respondent be temporarily 
suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission. 
   
       IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Respondent be, and hereby is, temporarily suspended 
from appearing or practicing before the Commission.  This Order shall be effective upon service 
on the Respondent. 

                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
 
         IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent may within thirty days after service of this  
Order file a petition with the Commission to lift the temporary suspension.  If the Commission 
within thirty days after service of the Order receives no petition, the suspension shall become  
permanent pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(ii). 
  
         If a petition is received within thirty days after service of this Order, the Commission shall, 
within thirty days after the filing of the petition, either lift the temporary suspension, or set the 
matter down for hearing at a time and place to be designated by the Commission, or both.  If a 
hearing is ordered, following the hearing, the Commission may lift the suspension, censure the  
petitioner, or disqualify the petitioner from appearing or practicing before the Commission for a 
period of time, or  permanently, pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(iii). 
 
         This Order shall be served upon Respondent personally or by certified mail at his last 
known address. 
          
 By the Commission.               
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                                  M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                            

                                                          3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                             Service List  
 
        Rule 141 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or another 
duly authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order Instituting Public 
Administrative Proceedings and Imposing Temporary Suspension Pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3) of the  
Commission’s Rules of Practice (Order) on the Respondent and his legal agent. 
 
        The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to 
notice:  
 
Honorable Brenda P. Murray                              
Chief Administrative Law Judge                          
Securities and Exchange Commission  
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-2557                        
                                                         
Susan F. LaMarca, Esq.                                       
Robert L. Tashjian, Esq.  
San Francisco Regional Office                                            
Securities and Exchange Commission               
44 Montgomery Street, 26   th
                              Floor  
San Francisco, CA 94104                              
   
Mr. Michael C. Pattison 
1559 Los Montes Drive  
Burlingame, CA  94010 
                                                       
Patrick J. Richard, Esq. 
Nossaman LLP 
50 California Street, 34th Floor 
San Francisco, CA  94111-4707                                        
(Counsel for Michael C. Pattison) 
 

                                                   4
  
