---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
 
                                         before the
 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Rel. No. 60346 / July 20, 2009        

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Rel. No. 3017 / July 20, 2009            

Admin. Proc. File No. 3-12208 

                       In the Matter of
  

                     KEVIN HALL, CPA
 
                             and
 
                 ROSEMARY MEYER, CPA
 

ORDER GRANTING PARTIAL PROTECTIVE ORDER 

       On May 8, 2008, Kevin Hall, CPA, and Rosemary Meyer, CPA submitted a joint motion 
seeking a protective order under Rule of Practice 322,  limiting disclosure of:  an accompanying 1
memorandum, portions of Respondents' briefs addressing the investigation leading to the 
institution of this proceeding, and the Division of Enforcement's response to such portions of the 
Respondents' briefs (collectively, the "Covered Arguments").  Under Rule 322, any party "may 
file a motion requesting a protective order to limit from disclosure to other parties or to the 
public documents or testimony that contain confidential information."2 
                                                                    "A motion for a 
protective order shall be granted only upon a finding that the harm resulting from disclosure 
would outweigh the benefits of disclosure."3 
                                           The Commission's staff has not opposed the 
Respondents' request for a protective order. 

       The Commission recognizes that the Covered Arguments contain sensitive information. 
At this stage in the proceeding, we believe that the harm resulting from complete disclosure 
outweighs the benefits.  However, we have determined that disclosure of certain information 
included in Covered Arguments now filed with us may be necessary to the resolution of the 
issues before the Commission. 

       1 
              17 C.F.R. ยง 201.322. 
       2 
              17 C.F.R. ยง 201.322(a). 
       3 
              17 C.F.R. ยง 201.322(b). 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               2 

       Accordingly, IT IS ORDERED that: 

       1.     Except as otherwise provided in this Order, the Covered Arguments shall be 
disclosed only to the parties to this action, their counsel, the Commission, any staff advising the 
Commission in its deliberative processes with respect to this proceeding, and in the event of an 
appeal of the Commission's determination, any staff acting for the Commission in connection 
with that appeal. 

       2.     All persons who receive access to the Covered Arguments or the information 
contained in the Covered Arguments shall keep them confidential and, except as provided in this 
Order, shall not divulge the Covered Arguments or such information to any person. 

       3.     No person to whom the Covered Arguments or information covered by this Order 
is disclosed shall make any copies or otherwise use such Covered Arguments or information, 
except in connection with this proceeding or any appeal thereof. 

       4.     The Office of the Secretary shall place the briefs containing the Covered 
Arguments in sealed envelopes or other sealed containers marked with the title of this action, 
identifying each document, and marked "CONFIDENTIAL." 

       5.     The requirements of sealing and confidentiality shall not apply to any reference to 
the existence of the Covered Arguments or to citation of particular information contained therein 
in testimony, oral argument, briefs, opinions, or in any other similar use directly connected with 
this action or any appeal thereof. 

       6.     The Commission expressly reserves the authority to reach a different conclusion 
regarding the confidentiality of the Covered Arguments or information covered by this Order at 
any time before it determines the issues raised in the proceeding. 

       By the Commission. 

                                                    Elizabeth M. Murphy
                                                             Secretary 
