---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                        

                          UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                      Before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  65555 / October 13, 2011 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3328 / October 13, 2011 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-14585 

In the Matter of,                          ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
                                           DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
 Watts Water Technologies, Inc. and        SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
 Leesen Chang,                             EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING 
                                           FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING CEASE-AND-
 Respondents.                              DESIST ORDERS AND CIVIL 
                                           PENALTIES 

       
       
                                          I. 
       
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Watts Water Technologies , Inc. and 
Leesen Chang (collectively “Respondents”).  
       
                                          II. 
       
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over themselves and the subject 
matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order 
Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing Cease-and-Desist Orders and Civil Penalties 
(“Order”), as set forth below.  

 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                  

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds  1
                                                                                  that:   
        
                                           Summary 
        
       1.     This matter concerns violations of the books and records and internal controls 
provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) by Watts Water Technologies, Inc 
(“Watts”) and Leesen Chang (“Chang”) .  The violations took place at Watts Valve Changsha 
Co., Ltd., (“CWV”) a wholly-owned Chinese subsidiary that Watts established in November 
2005 to purchase the assets and businesses of Changsha Valve Works (“Changsha Valve”).  
CWV acquired Changsha Valve in April 2006 and Watts sold CWV in January 2010.  CWV 
produced and supplied large valve products for infrastructure projects in China.  Infrastructure 
projects in China are mostly developed, constructed, and owned by state-owned entities (“Project 
SOEs”).  Proj ect SOEs routinely retain state-owned design institutes to assist in the design and 
construction of their projects.  Employees of CWV made improper payments to employees of 
certain design institutes .  The purpose and effect of those payments was to influence the design 
institutes to recommend CWV valve products to Project SOEs and to create design specifications 
that favored CWV valve products.  CWV’s improper payments generated profits for Watts of 
more than $2.7 million. 

       2.     The payments were disguised as sales commissions in CWV’s books and records, 
thereby causing Watts’ books and records to be inaccurate.  Watts failed to devise and maintain a 
system of internal accounting controls sufficient to prevent and detect the payments. 

       3.     Respondent Chang, a U.S. citizen and the former interim general manager of 
CWV and vice president of sales for Watts’ management subsidiary in China, approved many of 
the payments to the design institutes and knew or should have known that the payments were 
improperly recorded on Watts’ books as commissions.  
        
                                         Respondents  
        
       4.     Watts Water Technologies, Inc. is a Delaware corporation with its headquarters 
in North Andover, Massachuset  ts.  Watts designs, manufactures, and sells water valves and 
related products through its wholly-owned subsidiary Watts Regulator Co. , and maintains 
operations in North America, Europe, and China.  Watts manages its Chinese subsidiaries 
through Watts (Shanghai) Management Co., Ltd. (“Watts China”) headquartered in Shanghai     .  
Watts’ common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the 
Exchange Act and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange.  

                                                 
1
       The findings herein are made pursuant to the Respondent’s Offers and are not binding on any other person 
or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                            -2- 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                                   

       5.     Leesen Chang, age 51, is a U.S. citizen and was the vice president of sales at 
Watts China between November 2008 and June 2009.  Chang also served as interim general 
manager of CWV from April to November 2008.  Chang maintains a residence in Los Angeles, 
California but lives most of the year in China where he is currently employed.  
        
                                    Other Relevant Entities  
        
       6.     Watts Valve (Changsha) Co., Ltd. (or as defined above, “CWV”) was a wholly 
foreign owned enterprise limited liability company (“WFOE”)   2
                                                                established by Watts in China for 
the purpose of purchasing Changsha Valve.  CWV purchased Changsha Valve in April 2006 and 
operated as a valve manufacturing subsidiary of Watts until January 2010 when Watts sold the 
business to a privately-held Hong Kong company.  Watts consolidated CWV’s books and 
records into its financial statements and CWV’s revenues accounted for approximately 1% of 
Watts’ gross revenues. 
        
       7.     Watts (Shanghai) Management Co., Ltd. ( or as defined above “Watts China”), 
is a Watts’ WFOE headquartered in Shanghai that manages the operations of Watts’ 
manufacturing subsidiaries located in China, including CWV during the period of Watts’ 
ownership. Watts China is solely a management subsidiary and had no ownership interest in 
CWV. 
        
                                             Facts 
        
               A.    CWV’s Acquisition of Changsha Valve 
        
       8.     CWV completed its acquisition of Changsha Valve in April 2006.  Although 
Watts had significant operations in China prior to CWV’s purchase of Changsha Valve, CWV 
was Watts’ first experience with a Chinese subsidiary that conducted business predominantly 
with SOEs.  Watts’ other Chinese subsidiaries are primarily engaged in the manufacture of 
products destined for sale or distribution to non-governmental entities in China, the U.S. and 
Europe.   

       9.     Watts failed to implement adequate internal controls to address the potential 
FCPA problems posed by its ownership of CWV – a subsidiary that sold its products almost 
exclusively to SOEs.  In addition, although Watts implemented an FCPA policy in October 2006, 
Watts failed to conduct adequate FCPA training for its employees in China until July 2009.  
        

                                                 
2
       The WFOE corporate structure under Chinese law permits foreign investors to establish and operate 
business enterprises in China that are capitalized exclusively with foreign funds.  In addition, foreign investors who 
establish a WFOE in China can exercise control over the management and day-to-day operations of their WFOE.   

                                             -3- 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                                                                                 

               B.    CWV Made Improper Payments to Design Institutes 
        
       10.    During the period of Watts’ ownership, CWV sales personnel made payments to 
employees of certain design institutes to influence the design institutes to recommend CWV 
products to Project SOEs and to include specifications in their design proposals that would 
increase the likelihood that Project SOEs would select CWV products.  

       11.    The improper payments were facilitated by a sales incentive policy created by 
Changsha Valve prior to its acquisition by CWV, and adopted by CWV in December 2006 (the 
“CWV Sales Policy”).  The CWV Sales Policy provided, among other things, that all sales -
related expenses, including travel, meals, entertainment, and payment of “consulting fees” to 
design institutes, would be borne by the CWV sales employees out of their commissions, which 
were equal to 7% to 7.5% of the contract price, depending on the size of the contract.  The CWV 
Sales Policy further provided that sales personnel at CWV could utilize their commissions to 
make payments to design institutes of up to 3% of the total contract amount.  As a result, the 
payments to design institutes were improperly recorded in Watts’ books and records as sales 
commissions.  The CWV Sales Policy was never translated into English or submitted to Watts’ 
management in the U.S.  
 
               C.    Chang’s Role in the Violations 
 
       12.    As vice president of sales at Watts China and interim general manager of CWV, 
Chang was among those responsible for maintaining and enforcing Watts’ policies and 
procedures, including the company’s general prohibition against improper payments to SOEs.  
Nonetheless, Chang approved commission payments to CWV sales personnel      that he knew 
included payments to design institutes.  In fact, Chang signed commission payment approval 
requests that explicitly itemized payments of 3% to design institutes.  Chang also knew that 
Watts’ management in the U.S. was unaware of the CWV Sales Policy that facilitated the 
improper payments and he resisted at least one attempt by several of his colleagues at Watts 
China to have the policy translated and submitted to Watts’ senior management for approval.  In 
an email discussing this issue, Chang stated that “China sale policy should stay in control within 
China regional operation” because involving Watts’ management in the U.S. might cause CWV 
to “lose many flexibility [sic] on working with sale, sale agent and end buyer.”  Accordingly, 
Chang knew or should have known that, pursuant to the CWV Sales Policy, payments to design 
institutes were recorded in Watts’ books and records as sales commissions.  In addition, Chang’s 
resistance to efforts to have the Sales Policy translated and submitted to Watts’ management in 
the U.S. was a cause of Watts’ internal control violations, since it prevented the parent company 
from discovering the improper payments. 
        
               D.    Discovery, Internal Investigation and Self Reporting 
        
       13.    In March 2009, Watts’ General Counsel learned of a Commission enforcement 
action against another company that involved unlawful payments to employees of Chinese 
design institutes.  Because Watts’ senior management in the U.S. knew that CWV’s customers 
included Project SOEs, Watts implemented anti-corruption and FCPA training for its Chinese 
subsidiaries.  This training took place starting in the Spring of 2009.  In July 2009, following 
FCPA training sessions for certain management of Watts China, Watts China’s in-house 

                                            -4- 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                                                                                  

corporate counsel became aware of potential FCPA violations at CWV through conversations 
with CWV sales personnel who were participating in the training.  Shortly thereafter, the in-
house lawyer notified Watts’ management in the U.S. of the potential violations.  

       14.    On July 21, 2009, Watts retained outside counsel to conduct an internal 
investigation of CWV’s sales practices.  Watts’ outside counsel subsequently retained forensic 
accountants to assist with the investigation.   

       15.    On August 6, 2009, Watts self-reported its internal investigation to the staff.  As 
the internal investigation progressed, Watts shared the results of the investigation with its outside 
auditors and the staff through periodic reports, and undertook the remedial measures described 
below.  
        
               E.    Watts’ Remedial Measures 
        
       16.    Since July 2009 when the conduct was discovered, Watts has taken the following 
remedial steps.  At the start of its internal investigation, Watts directed all of its sales and finance 
employees at CWV and Watts China to stop all payments of any kind to SOEs.  While the 
internal investigation was ongoing, Watts eliminated commission-based compensation at CWV 
to ensure that no further improper payments were made by CWV sales personnel and disclosed 
the internal investigation in its August 7, 2009 Form 10-Q.  In addition, Watts retained additional 
outside counsel to draft and implement enhanced anti-corruption policies and procedures, 
including an enhanced Anti-Bribery Policy, a Business Courtesy Policy designed to ensure that 
any payments made to customers comply with the FCPA, an enhanced Travel and Entertainment 
Expense Reimbursement Policy for its Chinese subsidiaries, and enhanced intermediary due 
diligence procedures.  

       17.    In conjunction with its internal investigation, Watts conducted a worldwide anti-
corruption audit.  As part of its anti-corruption audit, Watts conducted additional FCPA and anti-
corruption training for Watts China and the company’s locations in Europe, conducted a risk 
assessment and anti-corruption compliance review of Watts’ international operations in Europe, 
China, and any U.S. location with international sales, and conducted anti-corruption testing at 
seven international Watts sites, including each of the manufacturing and sales locations in China.  
In an effort to ensure FCPA compliance and training going forward, Watts contracted with an 
online global training organization to provide regular anti-corruption training and hired a 
Director of Legal Compliance, a new position that reports to Watts’ General Counsel regarding 
issues under the Code of Conduct and Anti-Bribery Policy.  
        
                               Legal Standards and Violations  
        
              A.     Standard for the Issuance of a Cease-and Desist Order  
        
       18.    Under Section 21C(a) of the Exchange Act, the Commission may impose a cease-
and-desist order upon any person who is violating, has violated, or is about to violate any 
provision of the Exchange Act or any rule or regulation thereunder, and upon any other person 
that is, was, or would be a cause of the violation, due to an act or omission the person knew or 
should have known would contribute to such violation.  

                                             -5- 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                                                                                                  

        
              B.     The Requirements of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the 
                      Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder  
        
       19.    The FCPA, enacted in 1977, added Section 13(b)(2)(A) to the Exchange Act to 
require public companies to make and keep books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable 
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the issuer.  
15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A).  

       20.    The FCPA also added Section 13(b)(2)(B) to   the Exchange Act to require public 
companies to, among other things, devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls 
sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions: (i) are executed in accordance with 
management’s general or specific authorization; and (ii) are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles 
(“GAAP”) or any other criteria applicable to such statements, and to maintain accountability for 
assets.  15 U.S.C.  § 78m(b)(2)(B).   

       21.    Rule 13b2-1 prohibits a person from, directly or indirectly, falsifying or causing 
to be falsified any book, record, or account subject to Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act. 
17 CFR § 240.13b2-  1. 
        
              C.     Watts Violated Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B)  
        
       22.    Watts’ subsidiary, CWV, made improper payments to design institutes.  The 
payments were improperly recorded in CWV’s books and records as sales commissions.  CWV’s 
books and records were consolidated into Watts’ books and records.  Accordingly, as a result of 
the misconduct of its subsidiary, Watts failed to make and keep books, records, and accounts 
which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect its transactions and the disposition of its 
assets as required by Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act. 

       23.    As evidenced by the extent and duration of the improper payments and the fact 
that Watts management was unaware of the CWV Sales Policy that facilitated the improper 
payments, Watts failed to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient 
to provide reasonable assurances that it maintained accountability for its assets, and that its 
transactions were executed in accordance with management’s authorization and recorded as 
necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP.  Watts 
also failed to implement an FCPA compliance and training progra  m commensurate with the 
extent of its international operations and its ownership of CWV, a subsidiary that sold its 
products almost exclusively to SOEs.  Accordingly, Watts violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the 
Exchange Act.  

              D.     Chang Violated Rule 13b2-1 and Was a Cause of Watts’ Violations of 
                      Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) 
        
       24.    Chang knew that CWV sales personnel made payments to design institutes out of 
their sales commissions pursuant to the CWV Sales Policy and he signed commission payment 
approval requests that explicitly itemized payments of 3% to design institutes.  Under these 

                                            -6- 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                                                                                                 

circumstances, Chang knew or should have known that the sales commission payments he 
approved contained payments to design institutes that were improperly recorded in Watts’ books 
and records as sales commissions.  Accordingly, Chang was a cause of Watts’ failure to make 
and keep books, records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect 
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company as required by Section 13(b)(2)(A) 
of the Exchange Act.  By this same conduct, Chang was a cause of Watts’ failure to maintain 
accurate books and records and thereby violated Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1. 

       25.    As described more fully above, Chang knew that Watts’ senior management was 
unaware of the CWV Sales Policy that facilitated the falsifications of its books and records and 
he resisted attempts by his colleagues at Watts China to have the CWV Sales Policy translated 
and submitted to Watts’ senior management for approval.  By these actions and others described 
herein, Chang was a cause of Watts’ failure to devise and maintain a sufficient system of internal 
accounting controls as required by Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act.  
        
                                Commission Consideration of 
                         Watts’ Remedial Efforts and Cooperation       
        
       26.    In determining to accept Watts’ Offer of Settlement, the Commission considered 
remedial acts promptly undertaken by Watts and the cooperation afforded the staff.  
  
                                              IV. 
        
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents Offers of Settlement.  

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:  

       A.     Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act: 
        
              1.  Respondents Watts and Chang cease and desist from committing or causing any 
                  violations and any future violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of 
                  the Exchange Act;  
               
              2.  Respondent Chang cease and desist from committing or causing any 
                  violations and any future violations of Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1.  
 
       B.     Within fourteen days of the entry of this Order: 
        
              1.  Respondent Watts shall pay to the United States Treasury disgorgement of 
                  $2,755,815, prejudgment interest of $820,791 and a civil money penalty of 
                  $200,000; and  
               
              2.  Respondent Chang shall pay to the United States Treasury a civil money 
                  penalty of $25,000.  
               

                                            -7- 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

                                                                                                  

              If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC 
              Rule of Practice 600 and 31 U.S.C. § 3717.  Payment shall be: (A) made by 
              United States postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank 
              money order; (B) made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission     ; (C) 
              hand-delivered or mailed to the Office of Financial Management, Securities and 
              Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE, Stop 6042, Washington, DC 20549; and 
              (D) submitted under cover of a letter that identifies the payer as a Respondent in 
              these proceedings, the file number of these proceedings, a copy of which cover 
              letter and money order or check shall be sent to Antonia Chion, Associate 
              Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 
              100 F St., NE, Washington, DC 20549.  
 
       C.     Respondent Watts acknowledges that the Commission is not imposing a civil 
              penalty in excess of $200,000 based upon its cooperation in a Commission 
              investigation.  If at any time following the entry of the Order, the Division of 
              Enforcement (“Division”) obtains information indicating that Respondent 
              knowingly provided materially false or misleading information or materials to the 
              Commission or in a related proceeding, the Division may, at its sole discretion 
              and without prior notice to the Respondent, petition the Commission to reopen 
              this matter and seek an order directing that the Respondent pay an additional civil 
              penalty.  Respondent may not, by way of defense to any resulting administrative 
              proceeding: (1) contest the findings in the Order; or (2) assert any defense to 
              liability or remedy, including, but not limited to, any statute of limitations 
              defense.  
        

       By the Commission.  

        

                                                Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                Secretary 

                                            -8- 
