---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                          the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 60170 / June 25, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3000 / June 25, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13528 
                                            
                                              : 
                                           :       
                                           :        
In the Matter of                           :      ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                             :    PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
     CHRISTI R. SULZBACH,                  :      102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                             :    PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
              Respondent.                  :      IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                       : 
                                                       : 
____________________________________ :              
                                                   
                                              I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Christi 
R. Sulzbach (“Respondent” or “Sulzbach”) pursu ant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1 
                    
                                                
                                              II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 

                                                 
1 
       Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any attorney . . . who has been 
by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her 
misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the 
violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3. below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
              1.      Sulzbach, age 54, is and has been an attorney licensed to practice in the State 
of California.  She served as chief compliance officer, executive vice president and general counsel 
of Tenet Healthcare Corporation (“Tenet”) from February 1999 until her termination in September 
2003. 
        
              2.      Tenet was, at all relevant times, a Nevada corporation which maintained its 
principal executive offices in Santa Barbara, California.  At all relevant times, its common stock  
was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of  
1934 (“Exchange Act”), and traded on the New York and Pacific Stock Exchanges. 
 
              3.      On June 18, 2009, a final judgment was entered against Sulzbach, 
permanently enjoining her from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 and 
Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and aiding and abetting violations 
of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder, in the civil 
action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Tenet Healthcare Corp., et. al, Civil Action 
Number CV-07-2144 RSWL (RZx), in the United States District Court for the Central District of 
California.  Sulzbach was also ordered to pay $1 in disgorgement of ill-gotten gains and a 
$120,000 civil money penalty. 
 
               4.     The Commission’s first amended complaint (“complaint”) alleges, among 
 other things, that from 1999 through 2002, Tenet and certain of its officers engaged in an  
 unsustainable strategy to improve Tenet’s earnings by deliberately exploiting a loophole in 
 Medicare’s reimbursement system which allowed Tenet to obtain significantly greater Medicare 
 outlier payments by aggressively increasing its gross charges.  The complaint further alleges that 
 Tenet’s failure to disclose its unsustainable pricing strategy and its impact on Tenet’s Medicare 
 revenues resulted in Tenet filing a materially false and misleading annual report on Form 10-K 
 for its fiscal year ended May 31, 2002, and materially false and misleading quarterly reports on 
 Form 10-Q for the third quarter of its fiscal year 2002 ending February 28, 2002, and the first  
 quarter of its fiscal year 2003 ending August 31, 2002; and a materially false and misleading 
 prospectus supplement on June 21, 2002, in connection with an offering of $400 million of debt 
 securities registered pursuant to a Form S-3 registration statement that had been filed by Tenet in 
 December 2001, which prospectus supplement incorporated by reference, among other filings, 
 Tenet’s false and misleading third quarter 2002 Form 10-Q.  The complaint further alleges that 
 Sulzbach was substantially involved in preparing, reading, reviewing and approving Tenet’s 

                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 public reports with the Commission and the prospectus supplement.     The complaint further 
 alleges that Sulzbach knew, or was reckless in not knowing, about Tenet’s unsustainable strategy 
 to aggressively increase its gross charges in order to inflate its Medicare outlier revenues.  In 
 particular, the complaint alleges that as early as 1999, Tenet personnel approached Sulzbach 
 with questions and concerns regarding the legality of implemen            ting the gross charge increases 
 that triggered additional outlier payments, and that by 2002, Sulzbach had requested, received, 
 and discussed data showing that Tenet’s outlier payments were a significant portion of its 
 Medicare revenue. 
 
                                                        IV. 
                                                           
         In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Sulzbach’s Offer. 
 
         Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
        Sulzbach is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an attorney.  
          
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                                M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                          

                                                         3
  
