---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                   STATES OF AMERICA 
 before                                              the 
 SECURITIES                            AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 63879 / February 9, 2011 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  3241 / February 9, 2011 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-14247
                                                
      :  
 :                                                      
 :                                                       
            In the Matter of                   :             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                   :             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
             RODNEY B. JOHNSON,                    :             102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                            :     PRACTICE,          MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
             Respondent.                          :            IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                            :      
                                            :      
____________________________________ :              
                                                        
 
                                                  I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Rodney 
B. Johnson (“Respondent” or “Johnson”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules 
of Practice.1
               
                                                    
                                                    
                                                    

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:        The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and 
without preliminary hearing, may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant  
. . . who has been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her 
misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any 
provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
  
                     1.           Rodney B. Johnson, age 58, of Centennial, Colorado, was the chief financial 
officer, vice president of finance, and secretary of Fischer Imaging Corporation (“Fischer”) from 
August 2000 until he left Fischer in October 2002.  Johnson was licensed as a CPA in 1982.  His 
CPA license became inactive in 1994 and expired in 2004. 
 
                     2.           Fischer, during the relevant period, was a Delaware corporation with its 
principal place of business in Denver, Colorado.  Fischer was dissolved as of May 18, 2007, 
pursuant to a Chapter 11 Liquidating Plan.  Prior to its dissolution, Fischer designed, 
manufactured, and marketed specialty medical imaging systems used for the diagnosis and 
screening of disease.  Fischer’s common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to 
Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Fischer was required 
to file periodic reports with the SEC on Forms 10-K and 10-Q.  In 2004, the Commission imposed 
a cease-and-desist order against Fischer for violations of the anti-fraud, reporting, internal controls 
and books and records provisions of the federal securities laws resulting from improper revenue 
recognition and other accounting misstatements.  In the Matter of Fischer Imaging Corporation, 
(Exch. Act Rel. No. 50663). 
        
                     3.           On June 7, 2005, the Commission filed a civil injunctive action in the U. S. 
District Court for the District of Colorado against Johnson and five other Fischer executives and 
board members based on their alleged roles in improper revenue recognition and other accounting 
misstatements by Fischer.  SEC v. Louis E. Rivelli et al., Civil Action No. 1:05-cv-01039 
(D.Colo).  On May 6, 2008, the Commission filed its First Amended Complaint (“Complaint”).  
On January 31, 2011, the court entered an order permanently enjoining Johnson, by consent, from 
future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the 
Exchange Act, and Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1, 13b2-2 and 13a-14 thereunder, and from aiding and 
abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 
12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder.  Johnson was also ordered to pay disgorgement and 
prejudgment interest totaling $60,029 and was prohibited from serving as an officer or director of a 
public company for five years.  Based on his sworn statement of financial condition and other 

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

documents and information provided to the Commission, the court did not order Johnson to pay a 
civil penalty. 
 
                     4.           The Commission’s Complaint alleged, among other things, that Johnson 
knowingly or recklessly engaged in a fraudulent revenue recognition scheme that resulted in false 
and misleading statements in Fischer’s filings on Forms 10-K and 10-Q and other filings and 
public statements from Fischer’s third quarter of 2000 through its second quarter of 2002.  The 
complaint alleged that Johnson was involved in Fischer’s improper recognition of revenue upon 
shipment of products to storage facilities rather than upon shipment to customers or customer 
designated locations.  The complaint also alleged that Johnson knew or was reckless in not 
knowing that Fischer improperly recognized revenue from orders subject to material contingencies 
and other terms rendering revenue recognition inappropriate under Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles.  In addition, the complaint alleged that Johnson failed to disclose information and made 
false and misleading statements to Fischer’s auditors relating to Fischer’s improper revenue 
recognition practices.  The complaint further alleged that Johnson circumvented or failed to 
implement a system of accounting controls at Fischer, falsified or directly or indirectly caused to 
be falsified certain books, records or accounts of Fischer, and aided and abetted Fischer’s 
violations of certain reporting, internal controls, and books and records provisions of the federal 
securities laws.       
 
                                                IV. 
                                                  
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Johnson’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
              A.          Johnson is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
              B.          After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      

                                                 3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                         (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight                  Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Respondent, or the registered                                    public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

   (c) Respondent has resolved all di                                   sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
   (d) Respondent acknowledges                                      his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
      
         C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that he has resolved all 
disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  The Commission’s 
review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other 
matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications 
to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth M. Murphy 
       Secretary 

                                                          4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                           Service List 
 
              Rule 141 of the Commission's Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or another duly 
authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order Instituting Administrative 
Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and 
Imposing Remedial Sanctions (the “Order”), on the Respondent and his legal agent. 
 
              The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to 
notice: 
 
Honorable Brenda P. Murray                               
Chief Administrative Law Judge                         
Securities and Exchange Commission  
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-2557  
    
Zachary T. Carlyle, Esq. 
Denver Regional Office 
Securities and Exchange Commission 
1801 California Street, Suite 1500 
Denver, CO 80202        
  
Mr. Rodney B. Johnson  
c/o Josiah Hatch, Esq. 
Ducker, Montgomery, Lewis & Bess, P.C. 
One Civic Center Plaza 
1560 Broadway, Suite 1400 
Denver, CO 80202 
 
Josiah Hatch, Esq. 
Ducker, Montgomery, Lewis & Bess, P.C. 
One Civic Center Plaza 
1560 Broadway, Suite 1400 
Denver, CO 80202 
(Counsel for Rodney B. Johnson)                                  
 

                                                5 
