---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                               UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                            before the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 65051 / August 5, 2011 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3312 / August 5, 2011 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14501 
                                                                        
                                                                              :              
                                              :              
                                              :               
       In the Matter of                       :       ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                   :  PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
     STEVEN SCOPPETUOLO, CPA,      :                  102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                   :  PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
               Respondent.                                : IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                   :              
                                                   :              
____________________________________ :               
                                                             
                                                 I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Steven 
Scoppetuolo (“Respondent” or “Scoppetuolo”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1
                     
                                                   

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
                                              II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                             III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
              1.      Scoppetuolo is a certified public accountant licensed to practice in the State 
of New Jersey.  He served as Chief Financial Officer of World Fuel Services Corporation’s (“World 
Fuel”) Marine Segment from 2006 until September 2009. 
        
               2.     World Fuel has, at all relevant times, been headquartered in Miami, Florida.  
At all relevant times, World Fuel’s common stock has been quoted on the New York Stock 
Exchange, under the ticker symbol “INT,” and its options are listed on the Chicago Board of 
Options Exchange and other exchanges. 
        
                     3. On February 16, 2010, the Commission filed a complaint against 
Scoppetuolo in SEC v. Steven Scoppetuolo, et al. (Civil Action No. 10-CV-20475).  On April 15, 
2011, the Court entered an order permanently enjoining Scoppetuolo, by consent, from future 
violations of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and 
Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933.  The Court also imposed an officer -and-director bar 
and a civil penalty and disgorgement to be determined based upon the Commission’s motion.   
 
                      4. The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Scoppetuolo 
engaged in illegal insider trading in the securities of his employer, World Fuel.  Scoppetuolo tipped 
his friend, Robert Tocci, and broker, Sarang Ahuja, about World Fuel’s worse-than-expected 
earnings in advance of World Fuel’s May and August 2007 earnings announcements.  Before the 
announcements, Tocci and Ahuja purchased put options and Tocci sold short World Fuel 
securities.  After the announcements, Tocci and Ahuja sold their put options and Tocci covered his 
short position for profits. 
        
        
 
 

                                               2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
                                                        
                                                     IV. 
                                                        
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Scoppetuolo          ’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
        A.         Scoppetuolo is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant.   
 
 
        By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                                                     Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                                                     Secretary 
 
 

                                                       3  
