---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                              before the 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 68628 / January 11, 2013 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3440 / January 11, 2013 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-15171
                                                 
                                                :        
                                                :        
                                                :         
        In the Matter of                        :       ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                :       PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
                ERIC ASHMAN, CPA,               :       102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                :       PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                Respondent.                     :       IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                :        
                                                :        
____________________________________ :                    
                                                         
 
                                                   I. 
 
        The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Eric 
Ashman (“Respondent” or “Ashman”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
         1
Practice.   
                                                     
                                                   II. 
                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
        The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and         abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder.  
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
               1.     Ashman, age 45, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to 
practice in the State of Massachusetts.  He served as Chief Financial Officer of TheStreet, Inc. 
(“TheStreet”) from July 2006 through May 2009. 
        
               2.     TheStreet was, at all relevant times, a Delaware corporation with its principal 
place of business in New York, New York.  TheStreet is, and at all relevant times was, a digital 
financial media company providing users, subscribers and advertisers with a variety of content and 
tools through a range of online channels.  At all relevant times, TheStreet’s common stock was 
registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Exchange Act”), and traded on the NASDAQ National Market. 
 

               3.     On December 21, 2012, a final judgment was entered against Ashman, 
permanently enjoining him from violating, directly or indirectly, Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 13a-14 and 13b2-1 thereunder; and from aiding and abetting 
violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 
13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder, in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. 
Eric Ashman, Civil Action Number 12-CV-9189, in the United States District Court for the 
Southern District of New York.  Ashman was also ordered to pay a $125,000 civil money penalty, 
ordered to reimburse TheStreet $34,149 pursuant to Section 304 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 
2002, and prohibited for 3 years from acting as an officer or director of any issuer that has a class 
of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act or that is required to file reports 
pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. 
        
               4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Ashman 
aided and abetted a fraud resulting in TheStreet filing materially false and misleading financial 
statements in the company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 
2008, and in the company’s quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the first three quarters of fiscal 
year 2008.  The Complaint alleged that Ashman engaged in a number of improper accounting 
practices that materially increased TheStreet’s operating income, or decreased its operating loss, in 
a departure from generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).  These practices included, 
                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

among other things:  (1) recognizing revenue based on purported contracts for services when 
Ashman knew or recklessly disregarded that TheStreet had not performed the related services 
and/or had no basis to believe that such services had been performed; and (2) prematurely 
recognizing revenue based on services contracts.  In addition, the complaint alleged that Ashman 
made a false statement regarding revenue growth at a subsidiary of TheStreet when he knew or 
recklessly disregarded that such revenue only increased as a result of accounting improprieties. 
 
                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Ashman’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Ashman is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
       B.      After three years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his/her practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                      (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
      
       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                    Secretary 
 

                                                4  
