---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                      Before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 68754 / January 29, 2013 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3442 / January 29, 2013 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15191 
 
                                            
In the Matter of                           ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                           ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS AND 
       BRIAN D. FOX,                       IMPOSING TEMPORARY SUSPENSION 
                                           PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e)(3) OF THE 
Respondent.                                 COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE
                                              

 
                                          I.  
 
             The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate 
and in the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted 
pursuant  to  Rule  102(e)(3)  of  the  Commission’s  Rules  of  Practice  against  Brian  D.  Fox 
(“Respondent” or “Fox”). 
 
                                          II. 
 
      The Commission finds that: 
       
      A.     RESPONDENT 
 
             1.     Brian D. Fox, age 64, served as Powder River Petroleum International, Inc.’s 
(“Powder River” or the “company”) sole director, president and CEO from December 2003 until 
July 2008, and as its CFO until August 2007.  From year-end 2004 through the first-quarter 2008, 
Fox misled the investing public by fraudulently inflating the revenue and assets and fraudulently 
omitting major liabilities, of Powder River in the company’s Commission filings, and by making 
other false and misleading public disclosures.   
   
       
---------------------Page 2---------------------

B.     CIVIL INJUNCTION 
   
              2.      On November 2, 2012, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of 
Oklahoma entered judgment against Fox, permanently enjoining him from future violations, direct 
or  indirect,  of  Sections  10(b),  13(a),  13(b)(2)(A),  13(b)(2)(B)  and  13(b)(5)  of  the  Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-13, 13b2-1 and 
13b2-2 thereunder.   The Judgment further  prohibited Fox,    pursuant  to  Exchange Act  Section 
21(d)(2), from acting as an officer or director of any issuer that has a class of securities registered 
pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act or required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of 
the Exchange Act. Securities and Exchange Commission v. Brian D. Fox, Civil Action Number 
4:11-CV-0211-CVE-PJC. 
               
              3.     The Commission’s complaint alleged that from year-end 2004 through the 
first-quarter 2008, Fox misled the investing public by fraudulently inflating the revenue and assets 
and fraudulently omitting major liabilities, of Powder River in the company’s Commission filings, 
and by making other false and misleading public disclosures.  From year-end 2004, Powder River 
conveyed working interests in oil-and-gas leases to investors in Asia for over $43 million.  Because 
Powder River promised full repayment of the working interest investors’ initial investment, with a 
9% guaranteed annual return of principal, these transactions were, in reality, loans.  But Powder 
River,  with  Fox  as  chairman,  president,  CFO  and  Chief  Executive  Officer  CEO,  improperly 
recognized the loan proceeds as revenue in the company’s financial statements.  These bogus 
revenues were incorporated in Powder River’s quarterly and annual public filings with the SEC.     
        
                                              III. 
        
       Based upon the foregoing, the Commission finds that a court of competent jurisdiction has 
permanently enjoined Brian D. Fox, from violating the Federal securities laws within the meaning 
of Rule 102(e)(3)(i)(A) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.   In view of these findings, the 
Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest that  Brian D. Fox  be temporarily 
suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission. 
   
       IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Brian D. Fox be, and hereby is, temporarily suspended 
from appearing or practicing before the Commission.  This Order shall be effective upon service 
on the Respondent. 
 
       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Brian D. Fox may within thirty days after service of this 
Order file a petition with the Commission to lift the temporary suspension.   If the Commission 
within thirty days after service of the Order receives no petition, the suspension shall become 
permanent pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(ii). 
  
       If a petition is received within thirty days after service of this Order, the Commission shall, 
within thirty days after the filing of the petition, either lift the temporary suspension, or set the 
matter down for hearing at a time and place to be designated by the Commission, or both.  If a 
hearing is ordered, following the hearing, the Commission may lift the suspension, censure the 
petitioner, or disqualify the petitioner from appearing or practicing before the Commission for a 

                                                 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

period of time, or permanently, pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(iii). 
 
       This Order shall be served upon Brian D. Fox personally or by certified mail at his last 
known address. 
        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                      Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                      Secretary 
 
  
 
 

                                                   
