---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                               
                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 65600 / October 20, 2011  

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3329 / October 20, 2011  

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-10937 

                           : 
                           : 
In the Matter of             ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           : 
                             REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
                           : 
Michael G. Horsey, CPA       BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           : 
                           : 
                          
        
       On November 18, 2002,  Michael G. Horsey (“Horsey”) was denied the privilege of 
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant  as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against Horsey pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                        Horsey  consented to the entry of the 2002 Order 
without admitting or denying the findings therein.  This order is issued in response to Horsey’s 
application for reinstatement to practice before the Commission as an accountant. 
        
       At all times relevant to the 2002 Order, Horsey was a certified public accountant who 
was duly licensed by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and a partner with Mitchell & Titus 
LLP (“Mitchell & Titus ”).  Horsey was the engagement partner for his firm’s audits of the 
financial statements of MERL Holdings Inc.com (“MERL”) for its fiscal years ended December 
31, 1997 and December 31, 1998.  The Commission alleged that Horsey   (in his capacity as the 
engagement partner), the concurring review partner, and the senior manager failed to conduct 
their fiscal 1997 and 1998 audits of MERL’s financial statements in accordance with Generally 
Accepted Auditing Standards (“GAAS”), and issued an audit report which wrongly stated that 
MERL’s financial statements were prepared in conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles (“GAAP”).  Specifically, the Commission alleged that because they failed to exercise 
due professional care and maintain an attitude of professional skepticism, failed to obtain 
sufficient competent evidential matter, and failed to staff the audits with accountants who had 

                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 1667 dated November 18, 2002 (the “2002 Order”).  
Horsey was permitted, pursuant to the order, to ap ply for reinstatement after two years upon making certain 
showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

adequate technical training and audit proficiency, Horsey, the concurring review partner, and the 
senior manager engaged in improper professional conduct. 
 
       Horsey has met all of the conditions set forth in his suspension order and, in his capacity 
as an independent accountant, has stated that he will comply with all requirements of the 
Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, including, among others the 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.  In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the 
preparation or review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the 
Commission, Horsey    agrees  to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
the public company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission.  
        
       Horsey is currently subject to probation under the Pennsylvania State Board of 
Accountancy that is scheduled to end in January, 2013. Failure to abide by the terms of his 
probation could result in the suspension of Horsey ’s CPA license. Horsey has attested that he 
will notify the Commission if he is found to have violated the terms of the probation. He also has 
attested that he understands that the suspension of his CPA license could result in the revocation 
of the reinstatement of his privilege to appear or practice before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
        
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
        On the basis of the information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed 
to by Horsey , it appears that he has complied with the terms of the 2002 Order denying him the 
privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no information 
has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, professional 
conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis for adverse 
action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, and that 
Horsey, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of any 
company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in his 
practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission, and by undertaking to comply with all requirements of the 
Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, including among others, the 
requirements relating to requirem ents relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner 
reviews and quality control standards, in his practice before the Commission as an independent 
accountant has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R . § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Michael G. Horsey, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as 
an accountant. 

 
       By the Commission. 
                                            
                                            
                                                          
                                                          
                                                         Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                         Secretary  
 
