---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                               STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                         the 

 SECURITIES                        AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  63356 / November 22, 2010 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3214 / November 22, 2010 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-14134 
                                           
                                             : 
                                          :       
                                          :        
     In the Matter of                     :      ORDER INSTITUTING 
                                           :       ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
 CATHERINE ROZANSKI               (CPA),  :      PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE  
                                              :  COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
     Respondent.                          :      MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING  
                                          :      REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                      : 
____________________________________ : 
                                             
                                             I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against  
Catherine Rozanski (“Respondent” or “Rozansk     i”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice.1 
                                  
                                               

                                                 
1 
       Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public  interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has  
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any c ourt of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these  proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) whic h the Commission has determined   to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the           
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisd  iction over her and the subject matter of these   
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3.  below, which are admitted, Respondent  
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Maki  ng Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions       
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
              1.      Rozanski, age 42, is and has been a  certified public accountant licensed to 
practice in the State of Michigan since 1992.       Rozanski served as Director of Financial 
Accounting and Reporting at Delphi Corporatio n (“Delphi”) from April 2001 to 2004. She was 
separated by the company in 2005.  As Dir      ector of Financial Accounting and Reporting, 
Rozanski was consulted for Generally Accepte d Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) accounting 
guidance. 
               
               
              2.      Delphi was, at all relevant times,  an auto parts supplier headquartered in 
Troy, Michigan.  It was incorporated in Delaware in 1998.  At all relevant times, Delphi’s common  
stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of   the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and was listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under  
the symbol “DPH.”  
 
              3.      On October 30, 2006,  the Commission filed a complaint against Rozanski 
and others in SEC v. Delphi Corporation and Catherine Rozanski, et al. (Civil Action No. 2:06-cv-
14891-AC-SDP).  On November  17, 2010, the court entered an order permanently enjoining 
Rozanski, by consent, from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, and  
Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5 and 13b2-1 thereunder, and  
aiding and abetting violations of Sections 10  (b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A)  and 13(b)(2)(B) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, and13a-1 thereunder.  Rozanski was also ordered to pay a  
$40,000 civil money penalty. 
 
              4.      The Commission’s Complaint alleged, among other things, that Rozanski 
 engaged in a fraudulent scheme which resulted in Delphi filing materially false and misleading 
 financial statements in the company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
 December 31, 2001.  Specifically, the Complaint alleged that Delphi improperly recorded a $20 
 million payment from an information technology  (“IT”) company in December 2001, made in 
 connection with a new IT contract between th  e IT company and Delphi, as a reduction in    
 expense, although the payment was in substance a loan which Delphi was required to repay with  

                                              -2-
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 interest. The Complaint alleged that, when the IT contract was signed, Delphi agreed to repay the  
 $20 million over 5 years with interest, through      an intentionally opaque scheme involving   
 accelerated payments on other IT company se       rvice invoices, and using a supplier finance 
 program; because the $20 million was refundable, it contravened GAAP to record the $20 
 million as an immediate reduction of IT expense instead of a Delphi liability to the IT company.   
 In connection with the payment, Delphi allegedl y entered into a false side letter with the IT    
 company which was intended to mislead Delphi’s auditors as to the correct accounting treatment  
 for the transaction.  The Complaint alleged that Rozanski, knowing that the $20 million payment  
 was tied to the new contract and in substance a loan to Delphi, conducted meetings and 
 discussions leading to the signing of the releva nt contract and the payment of the $20 million.   
 The Complaint further alleged that Rozanski dir ected the drafting of versions of a false and   
 misleading side letter to mislead Delphi’s auditors and make the transaction appear legitimate. 
  
                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Rozanski’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
       A.      Rozanski is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
                   B. After three (3) years from the date of th is order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider her reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief 
Accountant) to resume appearing or  practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                                1. a  preparer  or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statemen ts that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy th e Commission that Respondent’s work  in her practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the inde pendent audit committee of the public company 
for which she works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as she practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
        2.             an independent accountant.        Such an applicatio  n must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                         (a)  Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which she is 
associated, is registered with the Public Co  mpany Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                           (b) Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which 
she is associated, has been inspected by the Bo     ard and that inspection did not identify any 
criticisms of or potent ial defects in the Respondent’s or the   firm’s quality control system that 
would indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
 

                                                -3-
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                             (c)   Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of a  ny sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                          (d)      Respondent acknowledges             her responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices   before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections , concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 
      
        C.       The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before th e Commission provided that  her state CPA license is current and she has   
resolved all other disciplinary  issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinst         atement by the Commission, the Commission will                  
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters       referenced above, any other ma  tters relating to Respondent’s 
character, integrity, professional   conduct, or qualifications to a          ppear or practice before the 
Commission. 
 
 By the Commission.              
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                               M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                         
 

                                                       -4-
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                         Service List  
                                                
       Rule 141 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or another 
duly authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order Instituting 
Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”) on the Respondent and her legal 
agent. 
        
       The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to 
notice:  
        
       Honorable Brenda P. Murray 

       Chief Administrative Law Judge
  
       Securities and Exchange Commission 

       100 F Street, N.E. 

       Washington, DC 20549-2557 

        
       Andrew Sporkin, Esq. 

       Division of Enforcement 

       Securities and Exchange Commission 

       100 F Street, N.E. 

       Washington, DC 20549-6041-B 

        
       Ms. Catherine Rozanski
  
       c/o David F. DuMouchel, Esq. 

       BUTZEL LONG 
 
       150 W. Jefferson, Suite 100  

       Detroit, MI 48226-4430 

        
       David F. DuMouchel, Esq. 

       BUTZEL LONG 
 
       150 W. Jefferson, Suite 100  

       Detroit, MI 48226-4430 

        (Counsel for Catherine Rozanski)  
 

                                             -5-
