---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                               STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                         the 

 SECURITIES                        AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 62372 / June 24, 2010 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3146 / June 24, 2010 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-13948 
                                                  ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
In the Matter of                                  ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
                                                  PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
        FEI-FEI CATHERINE FANG,                   COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
       CPA,                                       MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                                  REMEDIAL SANCTIONS  
Respondent. 
 
 
                                             I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate  that public 
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Fei-Fei Catherine Fang, CPA 
(“Respondent”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii)  of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 1 
                                                                                  
                                               
                                             II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (“Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of  
these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are 
admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative 
Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and 
Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               
                                               
                                                 
1 
 Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
       The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before  
it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct.                                      
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds2
                                                                                that: 
 
                                       RESPONDENT  
 
       1.      Respondent is a certified public accountant licensed by the state of Texas.  During 
the periods at issue here, she was a sole proprietor in Fei-Fei Catherine Fang, CPA, an accounting 
firm located in Dallas, Texas and registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board 
(“PCAOB”). 
 
       2.      From September 14, 2005 through July 2009, Respondent served as the 
independent auditor for Advanced Materials Group, Inc. (“AMG”), a manufacturing company 
headquartered in Garland, Texas whose common stock was registered with the Commission 
pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and quoted on the OTC Pink Sheets.  AMG filed 
Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings on July 2, 2009. 
 
       3.      Respondent audited AMG’s financial statements for the fiscal years ended 
November 30, 2005 through November 30, 2008, which were included in annual reports on Form  
10-KSB AMG filed with the Commission.  For each of these years, Respondent provided AMG 
with an unqualified audit opinion. 
 
       4.      She also reviewed AMG’s quarterly financial statements for fiscal years 2006 
through 2008 and for the fiscal quarter ended February 28, 2009, which were included in quarterly 
reports on Forms 10-QSB and 10-Q AMG filed with the Commission.   
 
       5.      Before auditing AMG’s November 30, 2005 financial statements, Respondent had 
no audit experience, and she had no other audit clients besides AMG before 2009. 
 
 
                                            FACTS  
 
       The Fraudulent Scheme   
 
       6.      From at least the fiscal quarter ended May 31, 2008 through the fiscal quarter ended 
February 28, 2009, AMG’s former chief financial officer orchestrated a fraudulent scheme to  
inflate AMG’s earnings and accounts receivable.  With the aid of a former AMG accounting 
manager, the former chief financial officer caused AMG to record sizable fictitious sales in AMG’s 
sales journal, normally at or near quarter end.  When these false sales were recorded, AMG’s 
accounting system generated invoices to customers.  These invoices merely described the sales as 
“miscellaneous charges” and were unsupported by purchase orders or shipping documents.    
 
                                                 
2 
  The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other   
person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
 
                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       7.       The fictitious sales were many times larger than AMG’s usual sales, which 
typically ranged from a few hundred to a few thousand dollars in amount.  In contrast, the false 
sales were in the range of $100,000 to $200,000 or more.  The false sales were listed in receivables 
aging reports included in Respondent’s audit work papers and were conspicuous in both their 
amount and grouping at quarter ends.   
 
       8.       As part of the scheme, the former chief financial officer directed the former  
accounting manager to create credit memos to reverse the sales in the next quarter, before the 
invoices became delinquent.  These credit memos were reflected in AMG’s sales journal and were  
conspicuous in amount and grouping.   
 
       9.       The net effect of these false accounting entries was to materially inflate AMG’s 
sales and earnings in the periods they were recorded.  Specifically, AMG’s sales for the fiscal year 
ended November 30, 2008 were overstated by approximately $1.7 million, or 16.2%, which 
resulted in an earnings overstatement of 122.7%.  The scheme had a similar impact on AMG’s 
quarterly results, as reflected in the following table: 
 
Quarter       Net Sales as    Net Sales as  Percentage  Earnings   Earnings as   Percentage 
Ended         Originally    Corrected      Overstated  Originally  Corrected     Overstated 
              Reported                                 Reported  
               
May 31, 2008    $2,791,466  $2,246,966                          24.2% $30,502  ($513,998)                       106% 
                                                                                  
August 31,    $3,216,863 $2,615,697                23% $120,573                                     ($480,593) 125% 
2008  
February 28,  $2,689,190 $2,522,590                                                                               6.6% $27,738 ($138,862) 120% 
2009  
   
 
       10.     AMG’s accounts receivable were also materially overstated in these periods.  At 
each balance sheet date between May 31, 2008 and February 28, 2009, AMG’s receivables were  
overstated by 29.1%, 26.3%, 22.1% and 7.4%, respectively.   
 
       11.     The former chief financial officer used the inflated accounts receivable to obtain 
greater borrowings under AMG’s bank line of credit.  AMG’s credit limit under this line was 
directly tied to the balance of its accounts receivable, which was a central component of the 
borrowing base calculation under this line.  Between May 31, 2008 and February 28, 2009, AMG 
increased borrowing under its line of credit from $1,499,282 to $2,459,000. 
 
       12.     The former chief financial officer used the additional borrowings in substantial part 
to pay large, unauthorized personal expenses he  charged to an AMG credit card.  Among other  
things, he used the AMG credit card to remodel his house; to vacation in Florida, New Mexico and 
France; to buy professional hockey season tickets; to join a country club; and to pay property taxes 
on his home.  The former chief financial officer also used funds drawn from the line of credit to 
pay for an interest in an executive jet service, which he used for extensive personal travel.  In total, 
the former chief financial officer spent $688,352 of AMG’s funds for unauthorized personal 
expenses.   
                                                  3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
       Respondent’s Unreasonable Conduct  
 
       13.     While auditing and reviewing AMG’s financial statements for the fiscal year ended 
November 30, 2005 through the fiscal quarter ended February 28, 2009, Respondent repeatedly 
failed to perform in accordance with applicable professional standards.  First, Respondent did not 
possess adequate technical training or proficiency as an auditor.   See PCAOB Standards and 
Related Rules, AU § 210.  Before Respondent audited AMG’s November 30, 2005 financial 
statements, she had no auditing experience.  On that and subsequent audits of AMG’s financial 
statements, Respondent was the only auditor on the engagement but failed adequately to maintain 
and update her technical training and to  acquire relevant audit experience.   

       14.     Respondent failed to adequately plan the audits, obtain an understanding of internal 
controls, and develop audit procedures responsive to identified risks.                                See PCAOB Standards and 
Related Rules, AU §§ 311 and 319.  Among other things, Respondent did not understand AMG’s 
system of internal controls or competently identify audit risks.  For instance, with respect to her 
audit of AMG’s November 30, 2008 financial statements, Respondent did not consider accounts  
receivable to be an area of heightened audit risk even though receivables had increased 75% from 
2007 to 2008, represented 44% of total assets, and were central to the company’s borrowings under 
its line of credit, which had increased by 77% compared to the previous year.  Respondent also 
followed a generic audit program, purchased off the internet, but failed to adjust audit procedures  
to account for risks or circumstances unique to AMG.   
 
       15.     Respondent also failed to exercise professional skepticism or obtain sufficient 
competent evidential matter with respect to the company’s large, unusual quarter end sales.  See 
PCAOB Standards and Related Rules, AU §§ 230.07 and 326.  She merely relied on the former 
accounting manager’s verbal representations that he had been too busy to invoice customers before 
then.  This explanation, however, was inconsistent with the receivables aging report in her audit  
work papers, which showed small invoices prepared daily for these customers throughout the 
quarter. 

       16.     In addition, Respondent failed to perform  confirmation procedures in accordance 
with PCAOB Standards and Rules AU § 330.  Among other things, she improperly allowed AMG 
management to control her confirmation of accounts receivable.  See PCAOB Standards and Rules  
AU § 330.28.  Respondent gave the former chief financial officer and former accounting manager 
blank confirmations to send to AMG’s largest customers, and relied on them to mail the 
confirmations to customers.  Accordingly, Respondent did not know that confirmations were not 
mailed to AMG’s two largest customers or that the confirmation responses she ostensibly received 
from these customers had been falsified by someone at AMG.  

       17.     Respondent also failed to evaluate exceptions noted on confirmation responses in 
connection with her audit of the November 30, 2008 financial statements.  For instance, 
Respondent accepted the former accounting manager’s verbal explanation of a $323,000 exception 
noted on a returned confirmation without performing any other procedures.  Respondent should 
have performed additional procedures with respect to this confirmation to obtain the evidence 
necessary to reduce audit risk to an acceptably low level.  Obtaining representations from 
                                               4
  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

management is not a substitute for obtaining competent evidence, and an auditor may not accept 
less than persuasive evidence merely because she believes management is honest.    See PCAOB 
Standards and Rules AU §§ 333.02, 230.09. 

       18.     Respondent did not otherwise competently test sales or receivables.  For example,  
although Respondent examined certain invoices to determine if the year-end sales cutoff was  
accurate, she relied on the former accounting manager to select the invoices. She did not examine 
AMG’s sales journal to select her own sample of invoices, although her audit program called for  
her to do so, and she only skimmed the receivables aging report  in her work papers without 
noticing details.  Had Respondent examined the sales journal and aging report to select her own 
sample, she would have noted the large quarter end sales and discovered the false invoices, with 
their vague descriptions and lack of supporting documentation. 

       19.     Similarly, Respondent’s audit program called for her to complete certain steps to 
test collectability of receivables, including the examination of credit memos.  Respondent 
examined certain credit memos, but relied on the former accounting manager to select them.  Had 
Respondent examined the sales journal to select a sample of credit memos, she would have 
discovered the large credit memos that reversed the false invoices.   

       20.     Respondent also failed to properly consider the risk of misstatements due to fraud 
in AMG’s November 30, 2008 financial statements, as required by PCAOB Standards and Rules  
AU § 316.  Respondent’s work papers from this engagement do not indicate that she did anything 
to assess the risks of fraud other than ask the former chief financial officer, former accounting 
manager and an accounting clerk whether they knew of any fraud.  She did not otherwise consider 
or assess any fraud risk factors including, for example, the recurrence of unusually large quarter 
end sales; the rapid growth of AMG’s accounts receivable during 2008, which outpaced sales 
growth; the company’s liquidity position and increased borrowings under the line of credit, which 
were linked to its accounts receivable balance; and the potential for management override given the 
extremely small size of AMG’s accounting staff.                        See PCAOB Standards and Rules AU §§ 316.08, 
316.19 and 316.57.   

       21.     Finally, Respondent failed to conduct her quarterly reviews in accordance with 
professional standards.  PCAOB Standards and Rules AU § 722 establishes standards and 
provides guidance on the nature, timing, and extent of the procedures to be performed by an 
independent accountant when conducting a review of interim financial information.  A review of 
interim financial information consists principally of performing analytical procedures and 
making inquires of persons responsible for accounting and financial matters.  A review includes 
obtaining sufficient knowledge of an entity’s business and its internal controls as it relates to the 
preparation of both annual and interim financial information to identify types of material 
misstatements and consider the likelihood of their occurrence. The specific inquiries made and 
analytical procedures performed in conducting a review should be influenced by the auditor’s 
knowledge of the entity's business and internal control environment.  See PCAOB Standards and 
Rules AU § 722.15.  

       22.     Procedures that an accountant should perform when conducting a review of 
interim financial statements are enumerated in PCAOB Standards and Rules AU § 722.18. 
                                               5
  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

Although Respondent performed some of the required analytical procedures and some of the 
required inquiries, she failed to inquire about many significant transactions recognized at the end 
of interim periods or about significant journal entries and other adjustments.   Additionally, for  
the inquiries Respondent made, she failed to consider the reasonableness and consistency of 
management’s responses to her inquiries in light of the results of other review procedures and 
her knowledge of AMG’s business and its internal control.   See PCAOB Standards and Rules  
AU § 722.17.  For instance, AMG’s receivables aging report for the fiscal quarters ended May 
31, 2008, August 31, 2008 and February 28, 2009, which Respondent by her own account only 
“skimmed,” reflected large and unusual quarter end sales.  Respondent did not inquire about or 
perform other procedures with respect to most of these transactions.  As for the few about which 
she did inquire, she simply accepted the former accounting manager’s explanation that he had 
been too busy to invoice the customers before quarter end and had merely aggregated smaller 
invoices into one.  This explanation was inconsistent with other information in Respondent’s 
work papers, such as the receivables aging report, which reflected that the former accounting 
manager issued small invoices to customers on a daily basis throughout the quarter.  Similarly, 
AMG’s general ledgers for the fiscal quarters ended May 31, 2008, August 31, 2008 and 
February 28, 2009, reflected large quarter end sales that increased sales and accounts receivable, 
followed by corresponding credits recorded immediately after quarter end that reversed these 
sales and accounts receivable.  These sales and credits were conspicuous in both amount and 
grouping.  Respondent, however, did not review AMG’s general ledger.  Had she done so, she 
would have seen these suspicious transactions and extended her interim review procedures, in 
accordance with PCAOB Standards and Rules AU § 722.22.  

                                          Violations  

       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provide that the Commission may 
temporarily or permanently deny an accountant the privilege of appearing or practicing before it if  
it finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that the accountant engaged in “improper 
professional conduct.”  In relevant part, Rule 102(e)(1)(iv) define “improper professional conduct” 
to include “[r]epeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable 
professional standards, which indicate a lack of competence to practice before the Commission.” 
 
                                           Findings  
                                                 
       Based on the foregoing, the   Commission finds that Respondent engaged in improper 
professional conduct pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 

                                               6
  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                                                                                       IV. 
                                                                                           
             In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanction 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.  Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that 
Respondent is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
 By the Commission.                                 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                                                                       M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                                                                   

                                                                                         7
  
