---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  

                                        Before the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 60329 / July 17, 2009 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3013 / July 17, 2009 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-12227 

                          
                          :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
In the Matter of          :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
                          :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
Andrew J. McAdams,        :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
CPA                       :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                          :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION  
                          
        

       On March 3, 2006, Andrew J. McAdams, CPA (“McAdams”) was denied the privilege of 
appearing or practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against McAdams pursuant to Rule 
102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                                  This order is issued in response to 
McAdams’ application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 

       As the engagement partner for PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP’s (“PwC”) audits of 
Aerosonic Corporation’s (“Aerosonic”) financial statements for fiscal years 1999 through 2002, 
McAdams supervised the audit services performed by PwC.  During this time, Aerosonic 
recorded fictitious revenue through a number of accounting schemes in violation of Generally 
Accepted Accounting Principles while McAdams failed to perform his work in accordance with 
Generally Accepted Auditing Standards.  With regard to some significant audit items in those 
years, McAdams did not adequately plan and supervise the audits, did not obtain sufficient 
competent evidential matter, did not maintain an attitude of professional skepticism, and placed 
undue reliance upon former senior management’s representations.  McAdams thereby engaged in 
improper professional conduct. 
 
                                                 
1 
 See  Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2392 dated March 3, 2006.  McAdams was permitted,       
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after two years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                    

       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, McAdams 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  McAdams is not, at this time, seeking to 
appear or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to 
resume appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will 
be required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, McAdams’ 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by McAdams, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the March 3, 2006 order denying 
him the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 
and that McAdams, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit 
committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, in his practice before the Commission as a preparer    or reviewer of financial 
statements required to be filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  
Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Andrew J. McAdams, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as 
an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                               
                                               
                                              Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                              Secretary 
                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3)  
of this section may be made at any time, and the applic ant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated                         
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i).                        
 

                                                 2
 
