---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 67219 / June 19, 2012 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3390 / June 19, 2012 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14922 
 
                                               
In the Matter of                             ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                             ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS AND 
RONALD J. MANGINI, CPA,                      IMPOSING TEMPORARY SUSPENSION 
                                             PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e)(3) OF THE 
             Respondent.                     COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE 
                                                                  
                                          
                                             
                                             
                                           I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to 
Rule 102(e)(3) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R.  § 201.102(e)(3), 1
                                                                            against Ronald 
J. Mangini (“Respondent” or “Mangini”).   
 
                                             

                                                 
1
      Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and  without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              II. 
 
       The Commission finds that: 
        
       A.     RESPONDENT 
 
       1.     Mangini, age 63, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to practice in 
the State of New York.  From at least January 1, 2008 until June 30, 2010, Mangini was a principal, 
and managing and general partner of Marshall Granger & Company LLP (“Marshall Granger”), an 
accounting firm located in Armonk, New York. 
   
       B.     CIVIL INJUNCTION 
   
       2.     On March 21, 2012,  the United States District Court for the Southern District of 
New York  entered a final judgment against Mangini , permanently enjoining him from future 
violations, direct or indirect, of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 10(b) of 
the Securities Exchange Act   of 1934 and Rule 10b-  5  thereunder.   Securities and Exchange 
Commission v. Brown    , et al. , Civil Action Number 10 Civ. 5564 (MGC)     .   Under the final 
judgment, Mangini is liable to pay disgorgement in the amount of $484,000, plus prejudgment 
interest thereon in the amount of $28,625, and a civil penalty in the amount of $484,000.  
        
       3.     The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that, from at least April 
2008 through June 2010, Mangini, together with a co-defendant, offered and sold what purported 
to be the common stock and promissory notes of Infinity Reserves-Tennessee, Inc. (“IRT”).  The 
IRT stock and notes were fictitious.  IRT was solely owned by a Marshall Granger client and, at 
the time, its principal asset, a natural gas pipeline  in Tennessee, had been inoperative for over a 
decade.  To perpetuate the scheme, without the knowledge or authorization of the Marshall 
Granger client who owned IRT, Mangini falsely held himself out to be an officer of, and the stock 
and notes to be bona fide interests in, IRT.  In reality, the offering was a sham and a Ponzi scheme.  
Mangini, together with his co-defendant, fraudulently obtained more than $2.1 million from at least 
thirteen investors, including Marshall Granger clients, selling the sham IRT securities. 
               
                                              III. 
        
       Based upon the foregoing, the Commission finds that a court of competent jurisdiction has 
permanently enjoined  Mangini, a CPA,   from violating the f ederal securities laws within the 
meaning of Rule 102(e)(3)(i)(A) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  In view of these findings, 
the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest that    Mangini  be temporarily 
suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission. 
   
       IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Mangini         be, and hereby is, temporarily suspended from 
appearing or practicing before the Commission.  This Order shall be effective upon service on the 
Respondent. 
 
        

                                               2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that  Mangini may within thirty days after service of this 
Order file a petition with the Commission to lift  the temporary suspension.   If the Commission 
within thirty days after service of the Order receives no petition, the suspension shall become     
permanent pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(ii). 
 
       If a petition is received within thirty days after service of this Order, the Commission shall, 
within thirty days after the filing of the petition, either lift the temporary suspension, or set the 
matter down for hearing at a time and place to be designated by the Commission, or both.    If a 
hearing is ordered, following the  hearing, the Commission may lift the suspension, censure the 
petitioner, or disqualify the petitioner from appearing or practicing before the Commission for a 
period of time, or permanently, pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(iii). 
 
       This Order shall be served upon Mangini personally or by certified mail at his last known 
address. 
        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                     Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                     Secretary 
 
  
 
 

                                                3  
