---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                         the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
      
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934                                             
Release No.  61976 / April 23, 2010 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  3129 / April 23, 2010 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-13870 
                                            
                                           :        
In the Matter of                           :   ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                               :   PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE         
        DAVID R. COSGROVE, CMA            :   102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                               :   PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
 Respondent.                              :   IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
____________________________________ :              
                                               
                                             I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against David 
R. Cosgrove (“Respondent” or “Cosgrove”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1 
                    
                                               
                                             II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings and the findings contained in paragraph 3 of Section III below, which are admitted, 
Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to  
Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
              1.      Cosgrove, age 51, is a certified management accountant ("CMA") licensed 
to practice in Canada.  At all times relevant to this matter, he was employed by Collins & Aikman 
Corporation ("C&A") in Troy, Michigan.  From February 2002 until August 2002, Cosgrove was 
the Vice President of Finance in the North American Plastics Division.  From August 2002 until 
October 2004, Cosgrove was the Vice President for Financial Planning and Analysis.  From 
October 2004 until September 2005, Cosgrove was the Corporate Controller.  
        
                                 2. C&A, a Delaware corporation headquartered in Michigan,  manufactured 
and assembled parts used in automobile production.  Prior to May 2005, C&A's common stock was 
registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
("Exchange Act") and was traded on the New York Stock Exchange.  C&A entered bankruptcy in 
May 2005.  On June 29, 2005, the Commission deregistered C&A's common stock and granted a 
New York Stock Exchange petition to delist C&A.  C&A has subsequently dissolved.     
  
              3.      On March 26, 2007  , the Commission filed a complaint against Cosgrove 
and others in SEC v. Collins & Aikman et al (S.D.N.Y.) Civil Action No. 07-2419.   On April 20,  
2010, the Court entered an order permanently enjoining Cosgrove, by consent, from future 
violation of Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 13(b)(5) of the 
Exchange Act, and Rules 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 under the Exchange Act, and from aiding and 
abetting violations of  Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 
12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 under the Exchange Act.  The Court also required Cosgrove to 
pay a civil penalty of  $40,000. 
 
              4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that from the 
second quarter of 2002 through the third quarter of 2004 C&A and several of its officers and 
employees, including Cosgrove, engaged in accounting fraud by improperly accounting for rebates  
demanded from suppliers in exchange for future business from C&A.  The Commission also 
alleged that C&A induced suppliers to provide false or misleading documentation regarding the 
rebates.  The Complaint asserts that Cosgrove advised C&A employees on the language to be used  
in false documents regarding the rebates, knowing that these documents would be used to  
improperly account for the rebates.   
        
         
  

                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Respondent is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
       B.      After three years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the  
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
               1.      a preparer or  reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such an  
application must satisfy the Commission that  Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company for 
which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the  
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                            (a) Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he/she is  
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                       (b)    Respondent, or the registered  public accounting firm with which 
he/she is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any 
criticisms of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or  the firm’s quality control system that 
would indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                (c)           Respondent has resolved all di sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                       (d)    Respondent acknowledges hi    s/her responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply  
with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control  
standards.    
 
       C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant provided that he is in 
possession of an accounting license in good standing and he has resolved any disciplinary 
                                                 3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

issues with any applicable licensing authority.  However, if the resolution of any disciplinary 
action by a licensing authority is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the 
Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may 
include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters 
relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear 
or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
       Elizabeth                                                                                M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                                          
 
 
 
 

                                                                     4
  
