---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                  STATES OF AMERICA 
 
                                           Before the 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  61195 / December 17, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3086 / December 17, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-13724 
 
                                                     ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC  
In the Matter of 
                                  ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
                                                    PURSUANT TO SECTION 4C OF THE 
THOMAS D. VOGELSINGER, CPA,  
                      SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
                                                    AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
Respondent. 
                                       COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                    PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                                    IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
  
                                                I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Thomas  
D. Vogelsinger, CPA (“Vogelsinger” or  “Respondent”) pursuant to Sections 4C   1
                                                                                 of the Securities 
and Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.2 
          
                                                 
1 
 Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:                            
 
       The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the privilege                       
of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way,  if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the   
requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be   lacking in character or integrity, or to have engaged in  
unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have   willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the 
violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.   
 
2 
         Rule 102(e)(1) provides, in relevant part, that:            
 
       The Commission may censure a person or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or   
       practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . .    
        
                                               * * * 
        
       (ii) to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct.    
 
                                               * * * 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

  
                                                  II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Vogelsinger has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the purpose 
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are  
admitted, Vogelsinger consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative 
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 4C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), 
as set forth below.   
 
                                                  III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Vogelsinger’s Offer, th   e Commission finds   3
                                                                                      that:  
 
                                              Summary  
 
       1.      This matter involves improper professional conduct by Vogelsinger during his 
tenure as the Area Managing Partner of the Lake Michigan Area of Ernst & Young LLP 
("E&Y").  The Lake Michigan Area (“LMA”) included the Chicago, Grand Rapids and 
Milwaukee offices.  Vogelsinger engaged in repeated instances of unreasonable conduct in 
failing to detect problems with respect to a revenue recognition policy of an E&Y audit client, 
Bally Total Fitness Holding Corporation ("Bally").  Bally’s prior accounting policy for the 
revenue at issue, which E&Y had audited for years, was clearly not in conformity with 
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”). 
 

                                                                                                                                                             
 
       (iv) with respect to persons licensed to practice as accountants, “improper professional conduct” under   
       §201.102(e)(1)(ii) means: 
 
                                                 * * * 
        
               (B) either of the following two types of negligent conduct: 
                                                    
                                                 * * * 
        
                       (2) repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable  
                       professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice before the 
                       Commission.  
                        
                        
3 
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Vogelsinger’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other    
person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
 
                                                    
                                                   2 

---------------------Page 3---------------------

  
       2.      Vogelsinger did not exercise due care as required by professional standards.  4
                                                                                               Had 
he done so, he would have discovered that the revenue recognition policy was not in conformity 
with GAAP.   
 
                                           Respondent  
 
       3.      Vogelsinger, age 59, was a certified public accountant licensed in Illinois and 
Iowa during the relevant period.  Vogelsinger was the LMA Managing Partner from 2000 until 
October 2003, and was in charge of E&Y's Chicago, Grand Rapids and Milwaukee offices.  He 
was responsible for overseeing all activities in those offices, including, among others, 
participating in client continuance decisions and risk management efforts with respect to certain 
of E&Y’s highest risk audit clients.  Vogelsinger retired from E&Y in 2009. 
 
                                    Other Relevant Entities  
 
       4.      E&Y is a national public accounting firm and, during the relevant period covered 
by this Order, served as the independent auditor for Bally.   
 
       5.      Bally, a Delaware corporation, purported to be the largest, and only nationwide, 
commercial operator of fitness centers.  At all relevant times, Bally's common stock was 
registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and traded on the 
New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”).  The NYSE delisted Bally's common stock on June 8, 
2007.  After filing for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, on September 
17, 2007, Bally emerged as a privately held reorganized entity.  On February 28, 2008, the 
Commission filed a settled injunctive action against Bally in the United States District Court for 
the District of Columbia, charging Bally with violating Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of  
1933, Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 10b-5, 
12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder.  The District Court issued permanent injunctions 
on May 8, 2008. 
 
                         Bally’s "Reactivation" Revenue Recognition  
 
       6.      The particular revenue recognition policy with respect to which Vogelsinger 
failed to exercise due care pertained to Bally’s “reactivation” revenue. 
 
       7.      Bally recognized revenue from what it called "reactivations," which were 
payments from Bally members who had completed their initial contract period, but whose 
memberships were canceled for failure to pay the monthly dues necessary to maintain their 
membership.  Bally did not attempt to recover those dues because there was no legal obligation 
to pay dues.  Accordingly, for those canceled members who had completed the initial contract 
                                                 
4
 Article V of the Principles of Professional Conduct (ET Se  ction 56) requires that an accountant exercise due care 
when discharging professional responsibilities.  Due car e requires the accountant to discharge professional  
responsibilities with competence and diligence.  Diligence imposes the responsibility to render services carefully, to  
be thorough, and to observe applicable  technical and ethical standards.    
                                                  
                                                 3 

---------------------Page 4---------------------

  
period, Bally waited at least six months after receiving their last payment and then began 
soliciting those canceled members to reactivate.  Those who accepted the reactivation offers did 
so, on average, 36 months after having stopped paying monthly dues.  The reactivation offers did 
not contain claims for or seek payment of "past due" amounts.  Instead, they asked for either a 
nominal reactivation fee or no reactivation fee at all, and the payment of monthly dues for a 
period of future service. 
 
       8.      Bally's reactivation revenue recognition policy was to project (as of the balance 
sheet date) the reactivation payments it anticipated receiving in the coming year and then 
immediately recognize most of these projected payments by improperly allocating them to past 
periods.  Bally's reactivation accounting was not in conformity with GAAP because use of the 
method enabled Bally to recognize revenue before it was earned and was realized or realizable.    5 
                                                                                                     
Bally recognized revenue before it was earned because, among other things, it barred canceled 
former members from the gyms, and therefore, had not provided services to those of its canceled 
members who might reactivate in the future.  Additionally, Bally recognized revenue before it 
was realized or realizable because it was recognizing revenue for reactivations that had not yet 
occurred, which it anticipated from canceled former members whom it could not identify 
individually and who had no legal obligation to reactivate or pay Bally anything at all.   
 
       9.      In short, Bally violated GAAP by recognizing revenue related to the anticipated 
future payments before the reactivation transactions occurred.  A reasonable accountant who 
understood Bally's accrual basis of recognizing revenue for "reactivations" would conclude that 
it was not in conformity with GAAP, because Bally was recognizing revenue that was not 
realized or realizable, and had not been earned.  
 
       10.     For at least six years, E&Y had audited Bally's "reactivation" revenue recognition 
practices.  In each of those years, E&Y provided Bally with an unqualified audit opinion in 
violation of GAAS.  6 
                        
 
               Vogelsinger’s Involvement In E&Y’s Risk Management Efforts  
 
       11.     In 2001 and 2002, a series of widely known financial scandals led E&Y to assess 
its audit risks and the firm took steps to identify and resign from or focus on certain of its riskiest 
clients.  These 18 riskiest accounts -- including Bally -- were so-called “National Focus 
Accounts” and were monitored by the Americas Executive Board.  Bally was not only identified 
as a National Focus Account, it was identified as the riskiest account in E&Y's Lake Michigan 
Area. 
 

                                                 
5 
 See, e.g., Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43, Restatement and Revision of Accounting Research Bulletins                             , 
Chapter 1A (1953); Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 10, Omnibus Opinion (1966); Statement of Financial   
Accounting Concepts No. 5, Recognition and Measurement in Financial Statements of Business Enterprises                     (1985);  
Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements, Topic 13.A (1999). 
 
6 
 See AICPA’s Codification of Auditing Standards AU § 508,                     Reports on Audited Financial Statements                   .  
                                                   
                                                 4 

---------------------Page 5---------------------

  
       12.    Because of the high risk posed by Bally, and the heightened scrutiny that was 
warranted for engagements identified as “National Focus Accounts,” as the LMA Managing 
Partner, Vogelsinger was actively involved in helping manage the risk posed to E&Y by Bally.  
As discussed below, Vogelsinger participated in multiple internal E&Y meetings that focused on 
the risks presented by the Area and National Focus Accounts, including Bally, and on the steps 
taken by E&Y to mitigate those risks.  Additionally, he participated in two meetings with Bally 
executives that were intended to improve Bally’s accounting and mitigate E&Y’s risk.   
 
                                      The 2002 Meetings 
 
       13         Beginning in June 2002, Vogelsinger attended meetings with other senior E&Y 
partners which focused on the risks presented to E&Y by certain audit clients, including Bally, 
and on the steps taken by E&Y to mitigate those risks.    
 
       14         On June 14, 2002, Vogelsinger met to discuss client continuance with, among 
others, Mark Sever and Kenneth Peterson.  Both Sever and Peterson were members of E&Y’s 
National Office.  Bally was one of ten high-risk accounts in the Lake Michigan Area that were 
discussed in that meeting.  Among the risks posed by Bally that were discussed at that meeting 
was Bally’s management, which was difficult and engaged in aggressive accounting.   
 
       15         On July 16, 2002, Vogelsinger attended another meeting with, among others, 
Sever, Peterson, and John Kiss, who had been the Bally audit engagement partner since 1996.  
That meeting likewise focused on the risks presented to E&Y by Bally and on the steps taken by 
E&Y to mitigate those risks.  
 
       16         On September 11, 2002, Vogelsinger had another meeting with Peterson to 
discuss Bally’s risks. 
 
       17         On October 28, 2002, Vogelsinger, Peterson, Sever, and Kiss met again to discuss 
mitigating Bally’s risks.  Those risks concerned Bally’s management, which engaged in 
“aggressive” accounting with respect to accounting policies and estimates.  Among the topics 
discussed was Bally’s accounting for reactivations. 
 
       18         By January 2003, E&Y was contemplating resigning from Bally "due to risk 
issues."  Ultimately, Vogelsinger and other senior E&Y partners decided not to resign.  That 
decision was made at a meeting on March 6, 2003. 
 
                         The March 6, 2003 Internal E&Y Meeting 
 
       19.    On March 6, 2003, Vogelsinger met with, among others, Sever, Peterson, and 
Kiss.  The subject of the meeting was whether E&Y should resign as Bally's auditor.  Kiss 
prepared a one-page list of the reasons to retain Bally and the reasons to resign.  The participants 
at the meeting discussed the list of reasons to retain and resign and discussed E&Y's exposure.  

                                                 
                                               5 

---------------------Page 6---------------------

  
Under the heading, “Estimates/Complexity in Business Model,” “Reactivations” was listed as 
one of the reasons to resign. 
 
       20.    At the end of the discussion, Vogelsinger and the others decided not to resign but 
to stay on and reduce the firm’s risk. 
                                                 
                       The March 11, 2003 Meeting With Bally’s CFO 
 
       21.    On March 11, 2003, Vogelsinger met privately with Bally CFO John Dwyer, who 
was a former E&Y audit partner, and delivered a one-page document, the “Terms of 
Engagement,” containing E&Y’s conditions for remaining as Bally’s auditor.  During the 
meeting, Vogelsinger and Dwyer discussed various accounting issues, but Vogelsinger did not 
request any information about Bally’s reactivation revenue recognition policy.   
 
                          Selection Of A New Engagement Partner 
 
       22.    Because Kiss was required to rotate off the Bally account, E&Y needed to 
designate a new engagement partner for the 2003 audit.  Vogelsinger and others identified 
William J. Carpenter as a suitable successor to Kiss.  They selected Carpenter because of his 
ability to "deliver tough messages."  
 
       23.    Vogelsinger and the AABS Managing Partner briefed Carpenter about the Bally 
engagement.  They advised him that Bally was considered one of the firm’s highest-risk clients.  
They instructed Carpenter to “fix this situation to reduce the firm’s risk.”   
 
              The June 16, 2003 Meeting Regarding Reactivation Accounting 
 
       24.    After becoming the new engagement partner, Carpenter focused on reactivations 
as posing risk to E&Y.  Carpenter conferred with other members of the audit team, but remained 
concerned with Bally’s reactivation accounting and had the view that Bally’s reactivation 
accounting was more aggressive than he was willing to accept and he was unwilling to sign off 
on the financial statements that included the reactivation accrual.  Carpenter, Sever, Peterson and 
Vogelsinger planned a meeting with Bally to demand that the Company change its reactivation 
accounting. 

       25.    In June 2003, Bally was in the midst of refinancing its debt.  E&Y called a 
meeting for June 16, 2003 at Bally's offices.  Bally was represented at that meeting by its senior 
officers.  E&Y was represented at the meeting by Vogelsinger, Carpenter, Peterson, Sever, and 
Kiss.  The presence of Vogelsinger, the managing partner of E&Y's Lake Michigan Area office, 
was unusual, as was the presence of Sever, who was in charge of all of E&Y’s Professional 
Practice Directors in the United States.   
 
       26.    Vogelsinger began the meeting by stating that Bally had the most aggressive 
accounts receivable in E&Y's entire Lake Michigan Area.   
 
                                                 
                                               6 

---------------------Page 7---------------------

  
       27.     At that same meeting,  E&Y announced that it would not provide Bally with the 
comfort letter and consent that it needed to complete its debt refinance if Bally continued to 
recognize reactivation revenue the way it had in the past.  Additionally, E&Y offered to permit 
Bally to write off the reactivation accrual over several quarters, a course of action which is 
clearly not in conformity with GAAP.   
 
       28.     By participating in substantive aspects of the engagement, Vogelsinger knew or 
should have known that the reactivation accounting policy was not in conformity with GAAP; 
there would be no reason to withhold the comfort letter and consent if such policy was in 
conformity with GAAP even if it was aggressive; similarly, there would have been no reason to 
offer to allow Bally to violate GAAP by spreading the write off over several quarters.  
 
       29.     As discussed above, Vogelsinger did not fulfill his obligation to exercise due care 
by not requiring the engagement team to take appropriate action concerning E&Y’s 2002 and 
2003 audits of Bally, despite: (1) having risk management responsibilities; (2)  knowing that 
Bally was one of E&Y’s riskiest 18 clients; (3) knowing that Bally’s management employed 
“aggressive” accounting principles and estimates; and (4) knowing that Bally’s reactivation 
revenue recognition policy was one of the issues that led to Bally’s identification as one of  
E&Y’s riskiest clients. 
 
                                            Findings  
 
       Based on the foregoing, Vogelsinger engaged in improper professional conduct pursuant 
to Rules 102(e)(1)(ii) and 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) of the Commission's Rules of Practice.  
Specifically, the Commission finds that Vogelsinger engaged in repeated instances of 
unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards that 
indicate a lack of competence to practice before the Commission. 
 
                                               IV. 
 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Vogelsinger's Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Vogelsinger is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) and Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2).  
 
       B.      After 9 months from the date of this order, Vogelsinger may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company's financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 

                                                 
                                                7 

---------------------Page 8---------------------

  
an application must satisfy the Commission that Vogelsinger's work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
      
                2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                           (a)  Vogelsinger, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight        Board ("Board") in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                        (b)     Vogelsinger, or the regist ered public accounting firm with which 
he is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any 
criticisms of or potential defects in Vogelsinger's or the firm's quality control system that would 
indicate that Vogelsinger will not receive appropriate supervision; 
 
                                                 (c) Vogelsinger has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, 
and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other 
than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                        (d)     Vogelsinger acknowledges     his responsibility, as long as 
Vogelsinger appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 
 
        C.      The Commission will consider an application by Vogelsinger to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission's review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Vogelsinger's 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission.  
 
 
        By the Commission. 
 
 
       Elizabeth M. Murphy 
       Secretary                                                    

                                                     
                                                   8 

