---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                          the 

 SECURITIES                         AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 63833 / February 3, 2011 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3240 / February 3, 2011 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14226 
                                            
                                             : 
                                           :       
                                           :        
  In the Matter of                         :      ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                             :    PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE    
  DAVID E. WATSON, CPA                       :    102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                           :      PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
  Respondent.                              :      IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                             : 
                                                       : 
____________________________________ :              
                                                   
                                              I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against David 
E. Watson (“Respondent” or “Watson”) pursuant to   Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules 
of Practice.1 
              
 
 
                                                

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder.  
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (“Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of  
these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the 
findings contained in Section III.3.  below, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of 
this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth 
below. 
 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
        
              1.      Watson, age 55, a resident of Kansas City, Missouri, was hired by American 
Italian Pasta Company (“AIPC”) as its chief financial officer in 1994.  From approximately 
October 2000 through March 2003, Watson served as AIPC’s executive vice president of 
operations and corporate development.  From approximately April 2003 through December 2003, 
when he left AIPC, Watson served as AIPC’s executive vice president of corporate development 
and strategy.  From approximately January 2004 through December 2005, Watson agreed to 
consult with AIPC on an as-needed basis.  Watson was licensed as a certified public accountant in 
Missouri and Kansas, but allowed his licenses to expire in 1994.       
                              
              2.      At all relevant times, AIPC was a Delaware corporation with its principal 
place of business in Kansas City, Missouri.  AIPC is a producer and marketer of dry pasta.  At all 
relevant times, AIPC’s common stock was registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”).  The company filed annual, quarterly, and current reports  
with the Commission on Forms 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K, respectivel  y.  At all relevant times, AIPC 
stock was traded on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”).  In July 2010, Ralcorp Holdings, 
Inc. acquired AIPC.         
               
              3.      On October 22, 2008, the Commission filed its amended complaint against 
Watson in the United States District Court for the Western District of Missouri (Civil Action No. 
4:08-cv-0067).  On January 28, 2011, the court entered an order permanently enjoining Watson, by 
consent, from future violations of Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-
5, 13b2-1, and 13b2-2 thereunder, and from aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a) and 
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder.  By 
consent, the court further ordered that Watson pay $397,113 in disgorgement; $189,464 in 
prejudgment interest; and a $75,000 civil money penalty.  The court further ordered by consent that 
Watson be prohibited, for five (5) years following the date of the court’s order, from acting as an 
officer or director of any issuer that has a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the 
Exchange Act or that is required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. 
               

                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

               4.       The Commission’s amended complaint alleged, among other things, that 
Watson and others at AIPC engaged in a fraudulent scheme that hid from the investing public the 
true financial state of the company by filing materially false and misleading statements in the 
company’s annual reports on Forms 10-K, quarterly  reports on Forms 10-Q, and current reports on 
Forms 8-K for AIPC’s fiscal years 2002, 2003, and 2004.  The complaint alleged that to meet 
aggressive external targets, Watson and others engaged in numerous fraudulent accounting 
practices that departed from generally accepted accounting principles, including, among other  
things, capitalizing improperly millions of dollars of normal operating costs; overstating 
improperly by millions of dollars the company’s spare parts inventory; and structuring round-trip 
cash transactions.   
                
                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Watson’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
        
               A.     Respondent is suspended from appearing or practicing before the  
Commission as an accountant. 
                    
               B.   After five (5) years from the date of this order, Respondent may request  
that the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office 
of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
               1.     a preparer or  reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such an  
application must satisfy the Commission that  Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company for 
which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the  
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                            (a) Respondent, or the  public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                (b)           Respondent, or the registered  public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of 
or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision;                              

                                                3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                  (c)              Respondent has resolved all di      sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                          (d)      Respondent acknowledges his re        sponsibility, as long as Respondent 
appears or practices before the Commission as  an independent accountant, to comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements  
relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
      
                 C.       The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to  
resume appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the appli        cable state boards of  
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, 
the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review 
may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters 
relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear 
or practice before the Commission. 
         
         
         
        By the Commission.  
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                               M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                          
 

                                                         4
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                                  
                                          Service List  
 
       Rule 141 of the Commission's Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or another duly 
authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order Instituting Administrative 
Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and 
Imposing Remedial Sanctions ("Order"), on the Respondent and his legal agent. 
 
       The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to 
notice:  
 
Honorable Brenda P. Murray                              
Chief Administrative Law Judge                          
Securities and Exchange Commission  
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC  20549-2557 
 
Nancy J. Gegenheimer, Esq. 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 
Denver Regional Office  
1801 California Street, Suite 1500 
Denver, CO 80202                             
 
David E. Watson, CPA 
c/o Jed D. Reeg, Esq. 
Lathrop & Gage, LLP 
2345 Grand Boulevard, Suite 2200 
Kansas City, MO 64108-2618 
 
Jed D. Reeg, Esq. 
Lathrop & Gage, LLP 
2345 Grand Boulevard, Suite 2200 
Kansas City, MO 64108-2618 
 
 

                                               5
  
