---------------------Page 1---------------------

 

                                             
                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 69945 / July 8, 2013 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3472 / July 8, 2013 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-15370 
 
                                   
____________________________________                                 
                                                 
                                                  
      In the Matter of                          ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE
             AICHUN LI, CPA                     102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS AND  
             Respondent.                        IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                 
                                                 
____________________________________                    
              
 
                                           I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in 
the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
Aichun Li (“Respondent” or “Li”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1
                                      

                                                 
1
      Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 

 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 

 
                                              II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.B.3 below, which are admitted, 
Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant 
to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
       1.     Li, age 39, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to practice in the 
State of North Carolina.  She served as Chief Financial Officer of Keyuan Petrochemicals, Inc. 
(“Keyuan”) from May 2010 until her   resignation  in October 2011. 
 
       2.     Keyuan was, at all relevant times, a Nevada  corporation with its principal place of 
business in Ningbo, China .  Keyuan is a manufacturer and supplier of petrochemica l products. At 
all relevant times, Keyuan’ s common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to 
Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and traded on the 
NASDAQ Stock     Market  LLC . 
 
       3.     On February 28, 2013, the Commis   sion filed a complaint against Li in  SEC v. 
Keyuan Petrochemicals, Inc., Civil Action No. 13- cv-00263 (D.D.C.) .  On July 2, 2013, the court 
entered an order permanently enjoining Li, by consent, from future violations of Section 13(b)(5) 
of the Exchange Act and from aiding and abetting violations of Section 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of 
the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rules 12b-20 and 13a-13 thereunder.  Li was also ordered 
to pay a $25,000 civil money penalty. 
 
       4.     The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that between May      
2010 and January 2011, Keyuan failed to disclose material related party transactions between 
and among the company and its chief executive officer and controlling shareholders as well as 
entities controlled by or affiliated with those persons. The related party transactions took the 
form of loan guarantees, purchases of raw materials, sales of products, and short term cash 
transfers for financing purposes. Li, who was hired to ensure the company’s compliance with 
U.S. GAAP and oversee the SEC reporting process, received information indicating that the 
company was engaged in certain related party transactions in the form of loan guarantees.  Li 
also encountered red flags that should have alerted her that the company was not properly 
identifying or disclosing certain related party transactions.  Despite such knowledge, Li signed 
off on registration statements and periodic reports filed between May 2010 and January 2011 that 

                                               2 
                                                 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 

failed to disclose material related party transactions, as required by U.S. GAAP and/or 
Commission regulations.   
                                               IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest 
to impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Li is suspended 
from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant.    
 
       B.      After two years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider her reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in her practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which she works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as she practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                      (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which she is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which 
she is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any 
criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that 
would indicate that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
 
                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and   
 
                      (d)     Respondent acknowledges her responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
      

                                                3 
                                                 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 

       C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that her state CPA license is current and she has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                    Secretary 
 

                                                4 
                                                 
