---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 
 UNITED                                STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                         the 

 SECURITIES                         AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 64025 / March 3, 2011 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3249 / March 3, 2011 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14283 
                                            
                                             : 
                                           :       
                                           :       
In the Matter of                           :      ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                              :   PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
     S. BLAIR ABERNATHY, CPA,     :               102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                           :      PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                           :      IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
 Respondent.                                                  : 
____________________________________ :               
 
 
                                              I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against S. Blair 
Abernathy (“Respondent” or “Abernathy”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1 
                    
                                               

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3. below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
              1.      Abernathy, age 49, is  a resident of La Verne, California.  Abernathy was 
IndyMac Bancorp, Inc.’s (“IndyMac”) CFO from April 25, 2008 to July 2008.  Abernathy was 
IndyMac Bank, F.S.B.’s (“IndyMac Bank”) executive vice president in charge of four Bank groups:  
Capital Markets (November 2007 to April 25, 2008); Specialty Lending (March 2007 to November 
2007); Investment Portfolio (2004 to March 2007); and Secondary Marketing (1994 to 2004).  
Abernathy was licensed as a CPA in California until 2003. 
        
              2.      IndyMac was a Delaware corporation with its principal executive offices in 
Pasadena, California.  IndyMac’s common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to 
Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and traded on the New York Stock Exchange 
until it was delisted on August 18, 2008.  On July 31, 2008, IndyMac filed for Chapter 7 
bankruptcy. 
 
              3.      On February 11, 2011, the Commission filed a complaint against Abernathy 
in SEC v. Abernathy, Civil Action No. CV 11-1308-JFW (SSx), in the United States District Court  
for the Central District of California.  On February 17, 2011, a final judgment was entered against 
Abernathy, permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of 
the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), 15 U.S.C. §§ 77q(a)(2) & (a)(3). 
 
              4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that in 2007 
Abernathy negligently made materially false and misleading statements in the offer and sale of six 
IndyMac Bank mortgage-backed securities offerings regarding the quality of the residential 
mortgage loans underlying the offerings.  In addition, the Commission’s complaint alleged that  
Abernathy negligently made false and misleading statements regarding IndyMac’s capital and 
liquidity position in its common stock prospectus  filed on May 2, 2008.  The complaint alleged 
that Abernathy, by his conduct, violated Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act. 
 

                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Abernathy’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
       A.      Abernathy is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
       B.      After two (2) years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that  
the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention:  Office of  
the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
 
                                 1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
      
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                            (a) Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight     Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                       (b)    Respondent, or the registered   public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms  
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                (c)           Respondent has resolved all di  sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                       (d)    Respondent acknowledges      his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 
      
       C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume  
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
                                                 3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission.                         
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                                                       M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                                                 
 

                                                                           4
  
