---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                      the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  60657 / September 11, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3048 / September 11, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-13614 
 
                                                    
In the Matter of                            ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
                                            DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
      DANA HOLDING CORPORATION  SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
      (as successor registrant to DANA      EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING 
      CORPORATION),                         FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE-
                                            AND-DESIST ORDER  
Respondent. 
 
  
                                          I.  
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease­
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Dana Holding Corporation (as successor 
registrant to Dana Corporation) (“Dana Holding” or “Respondent”).   
                                            
                                          II.  
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease­
and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making 
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   
                                            
                                            
                                            
                                            
                                            
                                            
                                            
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1
                                                                                that:  
        
                                       RESPONDENT  
 
       1.     Prior to filing a voluntary petition for reorganization relief under Chapter 11 of the 
U.S. Bankruptcy Code on March 3, 2006, Dana Corporation   was a Virginia corporation 
headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, that manufactured and supplied automotive parts and systems to  
vehicle manufacturers worldwide.  Before bankruptcy, Dana Corporation’s shares were registered 
under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and traded on the New York Stock Exchange. Trading of 
Dana Corporation’s shares was suspended on March 3, 2006.  The Commission granted the New 
York Stock Exchange’s application to de-list Dana Corporation from the Exchange in April 2006. 
After being delisted, Dana Corporation’s shares were deemed registered under Section 12(g) of the 
Exchange Act and traded on the Over-the Counter Bulletin Board.  On or about February 1, 2008, 
upon its emergence from Chapter 11, a new holding company, Dana Holding Corporation assumed 
substantially all of the business and assets of Dana Corporation and the common stock of Dana 
Holding, which was registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act, began trading on the New 
York Stock Exchange. 
                                                 
                                         SUMMARY  
 
       2.     From 2004 through mid-2005, contrary to Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles (“GAAP”), Dana Corporation improperly recognized revenue or income on several 
transactions and delayed recording expenses in the  appropriate period.  Dana Corporation thus filed 
materially false and misleading periodic reports with the Commission for the fiscal year 2004 and 
the first two quarters of 2005.  In total, Dana Corporation materially overstated its earnings before 
interest and taxes (“EBIT”) by $88 million, or 73.9% of restated EBIT.  This equates to an 
overstatement of $43 million or 39.8% of restated net income, as previously reported in Dana 
Corporation’s Form 10-K/A and Forms 10-Q/A filed in December 2005. 
 
       3.      During this period, former Dana Corporation employees of Commercial Vehicle  
Systems (“CVS”), a subdivision of one of Dana  Corporation’s two main business units, the Heavy 
Vehicle Technologies and Systems Group (“HVTSG”), engaged in a fraudulent scheme with 
former Dana Corporation employees of HVTSG to  inflate CVS’s financial results.  As a result, 
Dana Corporation’s financial statements were misstated, in part because the company: (1) 
recognized income on transactions where assets were never transferred or risk of ownership never 
passed, (2) recognized revenue for price increases on parts sales without agreement from the 
customers for the price increases, (3) improperly deferred the recognition of steel surcharge 
expenses, and (4) recorded other improper accounting entries, including decreasing debts owed to  
suppliers without any contractual support or agreement from the suppliers and recording entries 

                                                 
       1 
         The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding   
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.                                   
                                               2
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

that increased income without any basis or supporting documentation.  Dana Corporation 
overstated its EBIT by $31.6 million due to the fraud. 
 
       4.      In addition to the fraud, Dana Corporation’s financial statements from 2004 through 
the first two quarters of 2005 contained accounting errors amounting to $56.4 million.  Dana 
Corporation failed to maintain accurate books and records.  Dana Corporation also had materially 
deficient internal accounting controls that significantly contributed to the accounting irregularities 
and errors.  As a result, Dana Corporation filed materially false and misleading periodic filings 
with the Commission for fiscal year 2004 and the first two quarters of 2005.  In December 2005, 
Dana Corporation issued a Form 10-K/A and Forms 10-Q/A amending those filings. 
                                                 
                                            FACTS  
 
The Fraudulent Scheme to  Overstate Earnings at CVS  
 
       5.     The fraudulent misstatements in the financial results for CVS were ultimately 
incorporated into the financial statements for HVTSG and Dana Corporation.  HVTSG’s financial 
results and Dana Corporation’s consolidated financial information were disclosed to the investing 
public in Dana Corporation’s Form 10-K, Forms 10-Q, Forms 8-K and S-4 filings for 2004 
through the second quarter of 2005.  During this period, Dana Corporation overstated its EBIT by 
approximately $31.6 million or 26.5% because of the fraud at CVS, described below.   
                                                 
                       Improper Revenue Recognition of Price Increases  
 
       6.     In the first and second quarter of 2005, Dana Corporation improperly recognized 
price increases for parts without any written agreement from two significant customers.  When 
Dana Corporation accrued revenue for these price increases, employees were still negotiating the 
price increases with these customers.  No written agreement was ever finalized, and no invoices for 
the amounts accrued were sent to the customers.  Before revenue can be recognized, GAAP 
requires that persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists and that collectability be reasonably 
assured. See Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) No. 104, Revenue Recognition in Financial 
Statements, Topic 13.A.1., citing Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts (“SFAC”) 5, 
Recognition and Measurement in Financial Statements of Business Enterprises, ¶¶ 83 and 84. 
Thus, contrary to GAAP, Dana Corporation’s EBIT was overstated by a total of $2 million and 
$8.6 million in the first and second quarter of 2005, respectively, when Dana Corporation recorded 
these price accruals without customer agreement. 
        
                            Failure to Expense Steel Surcharge Costs  
        
       7.     In 2004 and 2005, steel suppliers typically passed on the higher cost of steel to 
Dana Corporation in the form of steel surcharges, which were separately invoiced.  During that 
time, former employees of CVS and HVTSG improperly delayed expensing the cost of steel 
surcharges by: (1) instructing HVTSG’s purchasing department to request that suppliers delay 
sending steel surcharge invoices; (2) rejecting valid steel surcharge invoices and failing to record 
those expenses; and (3) expensing the base cost of steel at the time of the receipt of steel, but 

                                               3
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

delaying the recognition of the steel surcharge costs for three to four months. Expenses were not 
booked in conformity with GAAP because they were not recorded as they were incurred.                                                  See  
SFAC 6, Elements of Financial Statements , ¶80; SFAC 5, ¶85.  Thus, because Dana Corporation’s 
expenses were understated, its EBIT was overstated by $350,000 in 2004, and by $2.8 million and 
$4 million, in the first and second quarters of 2005, respectively. 
        
                     Improper Recording of Income from Sales Transactions  
         
       8.     In 2004, employees of CVS and HVTSG negotiated several transactions with a 
Kentucky supplier of automotive parts (“Kentucky Supplier”) that resulted in improper recording 
of income.  The first transaction took place at the end of the first quarter of 2004, at which time 
an agreement was signed which provided for the Kentucky Supplier’s purchase of spare parts 
from Dana Corporation.  Some  of the spare parts purportedly sold to the Kentucky Supplier were 
to be used with equipment that the Kentucky Supplier did not yet own, but supposedly was to be 
acquired from Dana Corporation in the future.  The signed agreement specifically provided, 
among other things, that: (1) the spare parts would remain at Dana Corporation’s facilities 
pending the actual sale of equipment to the Kentucky Supplier; and (2) Dana Corporation would 
insure and assume the risk of loss on the spare parts while the parts were at Dana Corporation’s 
facilities.  Inclusion of these provisions in the agreement precluded the recording of income  
under GAAP.  According to GAAP, income cannot be recorded if the goods are not delivered 
and risk of loss does not pass from the seller to the buyer.  See SAB No. 104, Topic 13.A.1., 
citing SFAC 5, ¶¶ 83 and 84.  Because income could not be recorded under GAAP, Dana 
Corporation overstated its EBIT in the first quarter of 2004 by $573,000. 
        
       9.     In the second quarter of 2004, Dana Corporation agreed to sell its plant located in 
Toluca, Mexico to the Kentucky Supplier.  Dana Corporation agreed to partially leaseback the 
Toluca plant.  Dana Corporation recorded a $5 million gain on the sale and leaseback of Toluca.  
According to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 28, “any profits up to 
the amount of the present value of the leaseback rentals must be deferred and amortized” in a 
sale involving a leaseback provision over the life of the agreement.  SFAS No. 28, Accounting 
for Sales with Leasebacks, ¶¶3 and 15.  Contrary to GAAP, Dana Corporation improperly 
recorded the entire $5 million from the Kentucky Supplier as income, overstating its EBIT in the 
second quarter of 2004 by $2.8 million (the amount relating to the leaseback).   
        
       10.    Finally, in the last half of 2004, CVS improperly recognized income based on 
upfront payments for an agreement to purchase equipment which was never delivered to the 
Kentucky Supplier.  The written agreement stated that if Dana Corporation did not sell or deliver 
the equipment, Dana Corporation was liable to repay the upfront payment. GAAP requires that 
gains shall be realized or realizable and earned before it may be recognized.  Those conditions are  
usually met by the time the product is delivered.  See SAB No. 104, Topic 13.A.1., citing SFAC 5, 
¶¶ 83 and 84.  The gain from a non-refundable, upfront payment should be deferred if the goods, 
assets, or services contracted for have not been delivered.  See id.  The Kentucky Supplier paid a  
total of $3.3 million in September and December 2004 for the equipment, and Dana Corporation 
booked all of that as income instead of delaying recognition until the equipment was transferred as 

                                               4
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

required by GAAP.  Thus, these improper accounting entries had the effect of overstating Dana 
Corporation’s EBIT by $3.3 million. 
 
                               Other Improper Accounting Entries  
 
       11.    From late 2004 through the first quarter of 2005, CVS issued debit memoranda 
(“debit memos”) to suppliers without their agreement or any contractual basis thus causing Dana  
Corporation to improperly increase its profits.  Debit memos were invoices that were issued to its 
suppliers to reduce an outstanding payable amount and corresponding expense.  If the supplier 
agreed to the issuance of the debit memo, Dana Corporation could properly reduce the payable  
amount and its inventory cost.  However, in many instances during this timeframe, the suppliers 
who received the debit memos from CVS disputed them.  Without supplier agreement or a 
contractual basis, Dana Corporation either improperly reduced its obligation to pay these liabilities 
or improperly recorded an increase in its receivables.  As a result, Dana Corporation overstated its 
EBIT by $3.9 million from the last quarter of  2004 through 2005.   
        
       12.    In addition, Dana Corporation’s publicly reported financial results were inflated by 
a number of entries, some of which were made at the end of the month or quarter, which had no 
documentation or contractual basis.  For example, in at least two instances in the first quarter of 
2005, income was inappropriately recognized based solely on letters of intent to sell parts.  Based 
on all of these improper entries, Dana Corporation’s EBIT was overstated by $500,000 in 2004 and 
$3.1 million and $1.6 million the first and second quarter of 2005, respectively. 
        
Other Accounting Errors at Dana Corporation  
 
       13.    Dana Corporation also overstated its EBIT by approximately $56.4 million based 
on accounting errors from 2004 through the first two quarters of 2005.   
        
       14.    Errors at Dana Corporation’s CVS Division amounted to EBIT of $13.9 million.  
Those errors included approximately $4.1 million relating to the accounting for one of Dana 
Corporation’s joint ventures; and approximately $9.8 million of errors in various reserve and 
expense accounts at CVS.   
        
       15.    The largest error throughout all of Dana Corporation’s divisions involved a $19 
million EBIT overstatement relating to Dana Corporation’s LIFO inventory reserve.  Dana 
Corporation was required to increase its LIFO inventory reserve to correct its LIFO calculation.  
Erroneous information had been provided to Dana Corporation’s corporate accounting department 
from many plants at various divisions regarding the costs for steel surcharges.  During 2004, the 
plants were instructed to use a separate account to record surcharges in order to better track those 
costs and its recovery from customers.  However, most plants submitted reports of their inventory 
costs to corporate accounting without including steel surcharge costs.  Corporate accounting, in 
relying upon the erroneous information received from the plants, miscalculated Dana 
Corporation’s LIFO inventory reserve.   
        

                                               5
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                     16. The remaining errors in EBIT in the amount of $23.5 million were spread 
throughout Dana Corporation’s divisions, including:  (1) approximately $6.8 million in errors 
involving accounts at Dana Corporation’s foreign facilities; (2) approximately $3.7 million in 
errors relating the accounting for assets and/or  plants sold; and (3) approximately $13 million in 
errors in several of Dana Corporation’s reserve and expense accounts. 
   
Dana Corporation’s Internal Controls Weaknesses  
 
       17.     Dana Corporation’s deficient system  of internal controls contributed to the  
restatement of its financial statements for the first two quarters of fiscal year 2005, fiscal year 2004 
and prior years.  As identified by Dana Corporation in its Form 10-K/A filed on December 30, 
2005, Dana Corporation had five material weaknesses in the design and operation of its internal 
controls:  (1) Dana Corporation did not maintain  an effective control environment at CVS; (2) the 
financial and accounting organization was not adequate to support the Dana Corporation’s 
financial accounting and reporting needs; (3) Dana Corporation did not maintain effective controls 
over the completeness and accuracy of certain revenue and expense accruals; (4) Dana Corporation 
did not maintain effective controls over reconciliations of certain financial statement accounts; and 
(5) Dana Corporation did not maintain effective c ontrol over the valuation of certain inventory and 
the related cost of goods sold accounts.   
 
       18.     Dana Corporation failed to maintain adequate internal controls at CVS sufficient to 
prevent and detect the improper accounting entries recorded, and thereby allowed the wrongdoing 
set forth above to occur, undetected.  In particular, Dana Corporation failed to segregate duties 
concerning journal entries made at CVS.  The inadequate controls at Dana Corporation left the  
CVS controller with the sole responsibility of directing the recording of journal entries, reviewing 
the entries, and ensuring that they were made in accordance with GAAP.  Dana Corporation did 
not ensure that the HVTSG controller adequately reviewed the entries made by the CVS controller 
in order to verify the accuracy and propriety of the financial information.  In addition, Dana 
Corporation relied upon the controllers for CVS and HVTSG to self-report any issues to corporate 
accounting. 
        
       19.     Dana Corporation failed to maintain a proper system of internal controls and 
reporting structure sufficient to detect and prevent errors and accounting irregularities.  Accounting 
personnel at Dana Corporation reported directly to the operations managers, not to accounting 
supervisors responsible for determining that the accounting was properly recorded in accordance  
with GAAP.   This reporting stru cture allowed, for example, the CVS manager to threaten to fire 
the CVS controller if profit goals were not met.  In addition, the lack of qualifications of 
accounting personnel at Dana Corporation contributed to the deficiencies in its internal controls.   
        
       20.     Dana Corporation also had insufficient internal controls to prevent and detect 
improper revenue and expense accruals.  For example, employees at CVS and HVTSG failed to 
follow controls which required the existence of a written agreement for pr ice increases before 
significant accruals were entered.   Invoices we re similarly not expensed at the time incurred 
because employees circumvented controls requiring the same.  Dana Corporation had insufficient 

                                                6
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

internal controls procedures to ensure adequate review of these significant revenue and expense  
accruals. 
        
       21.      Lastly, Dana Corporation lacked effective controls over its inventory and cost of 
goods sold accounts.  Dana Corporation’s miscalculation of its LIFO inventory reserve resulted, in   
part, from corporate accounting’s failure to properly instruct the plants to include the surcharge 
amounts in reporting the steel costs for the LIFO calculation, and to independently verify whether 
the steel surcharges in the separate accounts were included. 
        
Dana Corporation’s Restatement  
 
       22.     As a result of the fraudulent entries and accounting errors discussed above, Dana 
Corporation’s financial statements in its annual report on Form 10-K fo  r 2004 and its quarterly 
reports on Forms 10-Q for the first two quarters of 2005 were materially inaccurate.  On December 
30, 2005, Dana Corporation filed a Form 10-K/A that restated its consolidated financial statements  
for fiscal year 2004 and Forms 10-Q/A for the first two quarters of 2005.  The table below shows 
that in Dana Corporation’s original financial statements, Dana Corporation’s EBIT was $77 
million for fiscal year 2004 and $130 million for the first two quarters of 2005.  In its restated 
financial statements, Dana Corporation’s EBIT was reduced by $44 million for fiscal year 2004 
and $44 million for the first two quarters of 2005, resulting in a total reduction of $88 million in 
EBIT.  This equates to an overstatement of $43 million or 39.8% of restated net income, as 
previously reported in Dana Corporation’s Forms 10-K/A and 10-Q/A filed in December 2005. 
 
                                                          Yr.        Qtr.      Qtr. 
                                                      Ended       Ended                        Ended 
    (All dollar amounts in millions)                       2004  3/31/05   6/30/05       Total 
    Dana Reported EBIT                                                                                                         77.0  38.0   92.0 207.0 
    Dana Restated EBIT                                                                                                         33.0  24.0   62.0 119.0 
    Total EBIT Overstatement                                                                                                     44.0  14.0   30.0 88.0 
    Overstatement as % of Restated EBIT               133.3%      58.3%     48.4%       73.9% 
  
                                          VIOLATIONS  
 
       23.     As a result of the conduct described above, Dana Corporation violated Section 
13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder, which require  
every issuer of a security registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act file with the 
Commission information, documents, and annual, quarterly and current reports as the 
Commission may require, and mandate that periodic reports contain such further material 
information as may be necessary to make the required statements not misleading.  Dana             
Corporation filed inaccurate periodic reports with the Commission that misstated material facts 
concerning its financial performance due to Dana Corporation’s improper accounting for its 
revenue, expenses and income. 
 
       24.     As a result of the conduct described above, Dana Corporation violated Section 
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to make and keep books, 
records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their transactions 
                                                  7
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

and dispositions of their assets.   Because Dana   Corporation improperly recognized revenue or 
income and deferred expenses, its books, records and accounts did not, in reasonable detail, 
accurately reflect its transactions and dispositions of assets.  
 
        25.     Lastly, as a result of the conduct described above, Dana Corporation violated  
Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, which requires all reporting companies to devise and 
maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that  
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance 
with GAAP.   Dana Corporation’s internal controls were not sufficient to prev      ent the recording of  
numerous and widespread improper accounting entries described above.  Thus, its internal 
accounting controls were not sufficient to reasonably assure that its transactions were recorded as 
necessary and its financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. 
          
                            RESPONDENT’S REMEDIAL EFFORTS  
        In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts promptly 
undertaken by Respondent and cooperation afforded the Commission staff. 
                                                   IV. 
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
        Accordingly, it is hereby  ORDERED that: 
        Pursuant to Section 21C of  the Exchange Act, Respondent Dana Holding cease and desist  
from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 
and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder. 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                         M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                    

                                                    8
 
