---------------------Page 1---------------------

                               UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                            Before the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 67767 / August 31, 2012 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3403 / August 31, 2012 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15001 
 
                                                      
                                                      
                                                     ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC   
In the Matter of                                     ADMINISTRATIVE  PROCEEDINGS   
                                                      PURSUANT TO SECTION  4C OF THE 
       FEDERICO QUINTO, JR.,  CPA,                    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
                                                      AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
Respondent.                                          COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                                                             
                                                                                 
 
 
 
                                                I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Federico Quinto, Jr., CPA 
                                                   1
(“Respondent” or “Quinto”) pursuant to Section 4C    of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
                                                                                2
(“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  
 
 

                                                 
1
 Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
       The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the privilege 
of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the 
requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to have engaged in 
unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the 
violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
2
 Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
       The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before 
it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct. 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 4C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and 
Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                                III. 
 
                                                                                 3
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that:  
 
A.     SUMMARY 
 
       1.      These proceedings arise out of Respondent’s improper professional conduct as the 
engagement partner on the 2007 audit (the “Audit”) and first three quarterly reviews of 2008 (the 
“Quarterly Reviews”) of Soyo Group, Inc.’s (“Soyo”) financials.  In this capacity, Quinto failed to 
ensure that Vasquez & Company, LLP’s (“Vasquez”) engagement team for Soyo adhered to the 
Standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB Standards”) in 
performing audit and review procedures in key areas, such as debt and going concern.  Quinto’s 
improper professional conduct included: failure to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter; 
failure to properly consider Soyo’s ability to continue as a going concern; failure to modify the 
auditor’s report appropriately when Soyo did not make required disclosures; failure to act with due 
professional care; failure to prepare and maintain adequate work papers; and failure to adhere to 
standards of conducting reviews of interim financial information.    
 
B.     RESPONDENT 
 
       2.      Federico “Jun” Quinto, Jr., CPA, age 57, is a resident of Cerritos, California.  
Quinto is a principal at the Vasquez accounting firm and served as the engagement partner on the 
Soyo Audit and Quarterly Reviews.  As the engagement partner, Quinto was ultimately responsible 
for the overall conduct of the Audit and Quarterly Reviews.  Quinto is a certified public accountant 
licensed in the state of California.   
        

                                                 
3
  The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other 
person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   
 
                                                 2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

C.     OTHER RELEVANT PARTIES 
 
       3.      Vasquez & Company, LLP, a limited liability partnership headquartered in Los 
Angeles, California, is a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting 
Oversight Board (“Board”) engaged in the business of providing auditing, tax, and consulting 
services.  Vasquez issued an unqualified opinion in its auditor’s report in connection with its audit 
of Soyo’s 2007 financial statements and included, with Vasquez’s consent, in Soyo’s 2007 Form 
10-K.  Vasquez personnel also performed the Quarterly Reviews. 
        
       4.      Soyo Group, Inc. was, at the time of the relevant conduct discussed herein, a 
Nevada corporation located in Ontario, California, primarily in the business of selling televisions, 
monitors, computer parts and peripherals through its wholly-owned subsidiary.  Soyo voluntarily 
filed periodic reports with the Commission and Vasquez committed to perform its engagements 
associated with such filings in accordance with PCAOB Standards.  Soyo’s common stock had 
been quoted on OTC Link, but such quotations have now been discontinued.  On May 5, 2009, 
Soyo filed for bankruptcy protection.  Soyo has ceased all business operations and is liquidating 
under the supervision of a receiver. 
 
D.     FACTS 
 
        Background 
 
       5.      During 2007 and the first three quarters of 2008, Soyo booked over $47 million in 
sales from at least 120 fictitious transactions with 21 customers, resulting in material 
overstatements in Soyo’s reported net revenues in several periodic reports filed with the 
Commission.  While this fraud was being committed, Soyo was financing its business operations 
through millions in borrowings from United Commercial Bank (“UCB”).  Notwithstanding the 
phony profits, Soyo struggled to obtain enough cash to continue its operations and it regularly 
violated its debt covenants with UCB.  Indeed, to obtain additional bank financing for Soyo and 
keep its existing line of credit with UCB from defaulting, Soyo falsely reported in the second and 
third quarter of 2008 that it completed a $6 million debt-for-equity transaction with one of its 
vendors.   
 
       Failure to Obtain Sufficient Competent Evidential Matter 
 
       6.      Under PCAOB Standards, the Vasquez audit team was required to obtain sufficient 
competent evidential matter by performing audit procedures to afford a reasonable basis for an 
opinion regarding the financial statements under audit.  See PCAOB Interim Standard – AU § 326, 
                  4
Evidential Matter.     

                                                   
4
 “AU” refers to the specific sections of the codification of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants 
(“AICPA”) professional standards, known as the Statements on Auditing Standards, as issued by the Auditing 
Standards Board of the AICPA.  Following passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, these standards were 
adopted as the PCAOB Standards in 2003.  References in this Order are to the standards in effect at the time of the 
relevant conduct. 
                                                 3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

         
        7.      Quinto failed to ensure that the audit team performed appropriate audit procedures 
in the area of Soyo’s debt obligations.  In planning the Audit, the Vasquez audit team identified 
Soyo’s asset-based credit line (“ABL”) with UCB as a contract that had audit significance given 
                                                             5
the magnitude of the UCB debt on Soyo’s balance sheet.          The audit team performed an analysis of 
the ABL and noted that Soyo was not in compliance with three of its       six  debt covenants as of 
December 31, 2007.     The debt covenant violations were important because they were events of 
default under Soyo’s lending agreement with UCB, and could have triggered the termination of the 
credit line and acceleration of the UCB debt.  Such actions by UCB could have forced Soyo into 
bankruptcy as the company was highly dependent on its credit line to fund its ongoing business 
operations and Soyo did not have sufficient cash (or assets readily convertible to cash) to repay the 
UCB debt.  Accordingly, the debt covenant violations, if not waived, could have had catastrophic 
consequences for Soyo.  Yet Quinto and the other members of the audit team did not make any 
inquiries of UCB about Soyo’s ABL debt covenant violations or otherwise obtain evidence 
supporting a waiver.   
          
        8.      In addition, the Vasquez audit team’s work with respect to the multi-million dollar 
purchase order financing line with UCB was also deficient, as there was a complete absence of 
documentation or analysis of the terms and conditions of the purchase order financing line, 
rendering it impossible to determine if Soyo was in compliance with that debt obligation as of 
                     6
December 31, 2007.     
 
        Failure to Properly Consider Soyo’s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern 
         
        9.      Under PCAOB Standards, the Vasquez audit team had the responsibility to evaluate 
whether there was substantial doubt about Soyo’s ability to continue as a going concern for a 
reasonable period of time.  See PCAOB Interim Standard – AU § 341, The Auditor’s 
Consideration of an Entity’s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern.   
         
        10.     There were numerous conditions and events Quinto knew or should have known 
during the Audit that, in the aggregate, indicated there could be substantial doubt about Soyo’s 
ability to continue as a going concern for a reasonable period of time.  Those conditions and events 
were that:   
 

                                                                                                                                                             
 
5
 As of December 31, 2007, Soyo’s total debt with UCB was approximately $27.8 million, or 63 percent of Soyo’s 
total liabilities.  Around $16.9 million of this debt was associated with the ABL with UCB while the remainder was 
a purchase order financing line with UCB. 
 
6
 The audit team also failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to support increases to the ABL during 
2007 (from $12 million to $17 million) that were disclosed in Soyo’s 2007 Form 10-K.  For example, there is no 
support in Vasquez’s audit work papers that the credit limits for the ABL were increased in April and December of 
2007, or that all other terms of those agreements were unmodified.  Moreover, Vasquez’s audit work papers reflect 
no inquiry about why Soyo overdrew its ABL by approximately $1 million in the third quarter of 2007.  
 
                                                    4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                                                            7
                 Soyo was in violation of its debt covenants with UCB;         
                 Soyo was heavily reliant on its borrowings with UCB; 
                 Soyo needed to extend the maturity date of the ABL due to its inability to pay; 
                 Soyo received credit limit increases to the ABL; 
                 Soyo had, during the year, exceeded its credit limit with UCB; 
                 Soyo was very near its credit limit on the ABL; 
                 UCB required Soyo’s chief executive officer (“CEO”) and chief financial 
                   officer (“CFO”) to jointly sign a $6.5 million personal guaranty to obtain the 
                   ABL;  
                 UCB did not renew the purchase order financing line when it expired in 
                   February 2008; and 
                 Additional financing was expensive for Soyo. 
        
       11.    Vasquez’s audit work papers are devoid of any consideration of these events as they 
relate to going concern or any rationale for Vasquez’s failure to evaluate going concern, even 
though during the pre-audit planning meeting the Vasquez audit team identified debt covenants as 
an area that needed testing because it could affect going concern.    
 
       Failure to Modify the Auditor’s Report Appropriately When Soyo Did Not Make 
       Required Disclosures 
 
       12.    Under PCAOB Standards, if management omits from the financial statements, 
including the accompanying notes, information that is required by generally accepted accounting 
principles (“GAAP”), the auditor should express a qualified or an adverse opinion and should 
provide the information in the auditor’s report, if practicable, unless its omission from the auditor’s 
report is specifically recognized as appropriate.  See PCAOB Interim Standard – AU § 431, 
Adequacy of Disclosure in Financial Statements.   
 
       13.    Quinto failed to ensure adherence to this PCAOB Standard.  Soyo was required to 
make specific disclosures in its financial statements with regard to its debt obligations, including 
the terms and conditions of the debt and whether Soyo had any events of non-compliance with its 
debt.  See Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, ¶¶ 
18-19; SEC Regulation S-X, Rules 4-08(c) (requiring disclosures of covenant breaches and 
waivers) and 5-02-19(b) (requiring disclosure of the terms and conditions of significant short-term 
debt).  Further, Vasquez’s audit team advised Soyo that the company needed to make such 
disclosures.  Soyo did not.  Despite the known reporting deficiencies, Vasquez expressed an 
unqualified opinion and Quinto did not note the reporting deficiencies in Vasquez’s auditor’s 
                8
report for 2007.   As discussed above, the debt covenant violations were likely material given that: 

                                                   
7
 AU § 341.06 states that conditions and events that could raise a going concern issue would include, for example, 
defaults on loan or similar agreements and the restructuring of debt. 
 
8
 PCAOB Interim Standard – AU § 312.38, Audit Risk and Materiality in Conducting an Audit, states:  
 
                                                  5 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 
                 Soyo was heavily dependent on the UCB debt to fund its business operations; 
                 Soyo had violated multiple debt covenants with UCB; 
                 Soyo’s debt with UCB constituted a large percentage of Soyo’s total 
                   liabilities; and 
                 Soyo did not have sufficient cash (or other liquid assets) or other available 
                   sources of financing to repay the UCB debt if called. 
 
Vasquez only noted in its work papers that Soyo had debt covenants with respect to the ABL and 
was not in compliance with them, and that such would be disclosed in Soyo’s next filing (which 
they were not).   
 
       Failure to Act with Due Professional Care 
        
       14.    PCAOB Standards required Quinto to exercise due professional care throughout the 
audit.  Due professional care means the auditor must act with professional skepticism – an attitude 
that includes a questioning mind and a critical assessment of audit evidence.  The auditor should 
not be satisfied with less than persuasive evidence because of a belief that management is honest.  
See PCAOB Interim Standard – AU § 230, Due Professional Care in the Performance of Work. 
 
       15.    Quinto failed to maintain an attitude of professional skepticism in performing and 
reviewing the audit procedures with respect to Soyo’s debt and with respect to evaluating Soyo as a 
going concern.  As discussed above, Quinto did not probe whether Soyo’s debt covenant 
violations, and other conditions and events related to its debt, presented any concerns, and ignored 
the impact of the debt covenant violations regarding the issue of going concern.  In addition, 
although Quinto knew or should have known of the reporting deficiencies associated with Soyo’s 
debt obligations, he did not appropriately modify Vasquez’s opinion on the financial statements 
due to the omission of information required by GAAP. 
 
       Failure to Prepare and Maintain Adequate Work Papers 
 
       16.    PCAOB Standards require that the auditor’s work papers clearly demonstrate that 
the work was in fact performed.  Audit documentation must also contain sufficient information to 
enable an experienced auditor, having no previous connection to the engagement, to: (1) 
understand the nature, timing, extent, and results of the procedures performed, evidence obtained, 
and conclusions reached and (2) determine who performed the work, when the work was 
completed, and identify when the work was reviewed and by whom.  See PCAOB Auditing 
Standard (“PCAOB AS”) No. 3, Audit Documentation.              
        

                                                                                                                                                             
       If the auditor concludes, based on the accumulation of sufficient evidential matter, that the effects of likely 
misstatements, individually or in the aggregate, cause the financial statements to be materially misstated, the auditor 
should request management to eliminate the misstatement.  If the material misstatement is not eliminated, the 
auditor should issue a qualified or an adverse opinion on the financial statements. 
                                                  6 
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

       17.    Quinto failed to ensure that the Vasquez audit team documented the work that they 
performed in a manner consistent with PCAOB Standards.  Vasquez’s audit work papers do not 
include any discussion of a waiver of Soyo’s debt covenant violations, and there is no 
documentation of the rationale behind concluding that no substantial doubt exists about Soyo’s 
ability to continue as a going concern for a reasonable period of time.  Moreover, many of 
Vasquez’s significant audit findings and issues are not included in Vasquez’s engagement 
                      9
completion document.      These include, for instance, that: 
 
                 Soyo had violated its debt covenants with UCB; 
                 Soyo had overdrawn its credit limit on the ABL in the third quarter of 2007; 
                 UCB had increased the credit limit for the ABL in April and December of 
                   2007; 
                 Soyo had almost fully utilized its available credit limit on the ABL with UCB; 
                 UCB had extended the maturity date for the ABL; 
                 Soyo’s CEO and CFO provided a $6.5 million personal guaranty to UCB; 
                 UCB did not renew Soyo’s purchase order financing line; 
                 Soyo had obtained an additional financing line at a high cost; and 
                 Soyo had the ability to continue as a going concern for a reasonable period of 
                   time. 
        
       Failure to Adhere to Standards of Conducting Reviews of Interim Financial 
       Information 
 
       18.    Quinto also failed to ensure that the Quarterly Reviews were performed in 
accordance with PCAOB Standards.  A review of interim financial information consists primarily 
of analytical procedures and inquiries designed to address significant accounting and disclosure 
matters relating to the interim financial information to be reported.  This would ordinarily include 
making inquiries regarding compliance with debt covenants and, if the auditor becomes aware of 
significant adverse conditions or events, going concern.  Moreover, the auditor should prepare 
documentation of the interim review work performed that includes any significant findings or 
issues.  See PCAOB Interim Standard – AU § 722, Interim Financial Information.  As discussed 
below, each of the Quarterly Reviews of Soyo’s financials was deficient.   

               First Quarter of 2008 

       19.    As with the Audit, Vasquez’s interim review work in the areas of debt, going 
concern, and documentation were inadequate.  Vasquez’s work papers for the first quarter of 2008 
note that Soyo’s ABL with UCB matured on May 5, 2008, yet no inquiry was made regarding 
Soyo’s plans to repay or extend the debt prior to the filing of Soyo’s first quarter 2008 Form 10-Q 
on May 15, 2008.  Quinto was also informed that Soyo again overdrew the credit limit of its ABL 
by approximately $1 million (without UCB’s consent) during the first quarter of 2008, but the 

                                                 
9
 PCAOB AS No. 3, ¶13 requires an auditor to identify all significant findings or issues in an engagement 
completion document. 
                                                 7 
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

                                                           10
work papers reflect no inquiry by Vasquez on this issue.       Further,  the first quarter work papers 
show no inquiry regarding Soyo’s compliance with its debt covenants related to the ABL, despite 
the fact that debt covenant violations were noted as of December 31, 2007.  Quinto also did not 
require that Soyo correct the previously identified disclosure deficiencies in its financial statements 
regarding the failure to report its debt covenants and lack of compliance with them, which became 
even more significant as the debt covenant violations extended over multiple periods. 
         
        20.     Although Vasquez’s “Engagement Continuance Form” for the first quarter of 2008 
states that Vasquez would assess going concern due to Soyo’s liquidity issues, Vasquez failed to 
perform any such inquiries during its interim review.  In addition to the adverse conditions and 
events regarding Soyo’s debt that existed during the Audit, in the first quarter of 2008, Quinto knew 
or should have known that the following circumstances further indicated that there could be 
substantial doubt about Soyo’s ability to continue as a going concern for a reasonable period of 
time:  
 
                   Soyo’s ABL with UCB was due on May 5, 2009 (prior to filing the Form 10-
                    Q for the period ended March 31, 2008), but was not paid off at maturity;  
                   Soyo had exceeded its credit limit on the ABL without UCB’s consent in the 
                    first quarter of 2008;  
                   Vasquez’s analytic review states that Soyo’s accounts payable had increased 
                    in the first quarter of 2008 due to a liquidity problem; and 
                   Soyo’s accounts receivables over 30 days due increased sharply from 11 
                    percent to 27 percent in the first quarter of 2008, thus indicating possible 
                    collection issues. 

Under these circumstances, Quinto should have ensured that the Soyo engagement team made 
inquiries regarding management’s plan to address the adverse conditions and document their 
findings.  He did not.   
 
        21.     In addition, none of the issues discussed in this section were included in Vasquez’s 
engagement completion document for the first quarter of 2008.   

                Second Quarter of 2008 

        22.     Vasquez’s deficient interim review work continued into the second quarter of 2008.  
Vasquez’s interim review work papers for that quarter confirm that Soyo had, in fact, been in 
                                                                            11
violation of its debt covenants with UCB in the first quarter of 2008.           Again, no inquiry was 
performed  in  the  second  quarter  about  any  waiver  of  the  historical  debt  covenant  violations.  

                                                   
10
  Soyo’s first quarter 2008 Form 10-Q states that the ABL credit limit was raised from $17 million to $18 million, 
which would negate a default, but the work papers do not reflect any inquiry by the Soyo engagement team 
regarding this purported credit limit increase. 
 
11
  As mentioned previously, Soyo was in compliance with its debt covenants in the second quarter of 2008, but due 
only to its recording of the phony $6 million debt-for-equity swap. 
                                                   8 
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

Furthermore,  Soyo  ignored  Vasquez’s  comments  in  the  second  quarter  of  2008  to  include 
additional disclosures regarding the terms of its debt obligations.  Yet the work papers reflect no 
inquiry by Quinto (or anyone else) of Soyo’s management as to why Vasquez’s comments were 
not addressed.  Moreover, in the second quarter of 2008, Quinto again failed to ensure that the 
Soyo engagement team consider the going concern issue, even though there were further indicators 
that  Soyo’s  viability  was  uncertain.    These  included,  in  addition  to  the  conditions  previously 
mentioned, that: 
        
                 Vasquez stated, in its “Business Risk Identification and Planning Form,” that 
                  it expected Soyo to have difficulty meeting its financing and working capital 
                  requirements;  
                 Soyo had utilized 99.6 percent of its consolidated credit line with UCB by 
                  June 30, 2008; 
                 Soyo had applied for, but did not obtain, new lines of credit in the second 
                  quarter of 2008;  
                 Quinto was aware that Soyo was struggling to maintain its profitability in 
                  order to obtain additional financing; and 
                 Only 44 percent of Soyo’s accounts receivable were current (as opposed to 88 
                  percent as of December 31, 2007) by the end of the second quarter of 2008. 
                   
       23.    As with the first quarter, none of the issues discussed in this section were 
mentioned in the engagement completion document for the second quarter of 2008.   

               Third Quarter of 2008 

       24.    In the third quarter of 2008, Quinto again failed to ensure that the Soyo engagement 
team properly consider whether there was substantial doubt about Soyo’s ability to continue as a 
going concern for a reasonable period of time.  Adding to the already sizable amount of evidence 
indicating that Soyo faced significant financial difficulties, during the third quarter, Quinto knew or 
should have known of the following additional events and conditions: 
        
                 Quinto was informed that Soyo was struggling to find financing; 
                 Soyo’s accounts receivables balance, aging (days sales outstanding), and bad 
                  debt write-offs all increased, indicating that Soyo was continuing to have 
                  difficulty collecting from its customers; 
                 Soyo obtained an additional loan from UCB that matured on November 5, 
                  2008, without being paid off (prior to the filing of the Form 10-Q for the third 
                  quarter of 2008), and Soyo’s CEO and CFO had to provide an additional 
                  $900,000 personal guaranty on this loan; 
                 Vasquez’s “Business Risk Identification and Planning Form” stated that Soyo 
                  had used all available credit by the end of the third quarter; and  
                 Soyo had to obtain a $557,000 loan from a friend of its CFO, reflecting that 
                  the company was forced to resort to unconventional means of financing. 
                   

                                                9 
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

       25.    Nevertheless, neither the third quarter engagement completion document nor the 
work papers as a whole reflect any inquiry or consideration in the area of going concern. 
                       
E.     VIOLATIONS 
 
       26.     Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides that the Commission may temporarily or permanently deny 
an accountant the privilege of appearing or practicing before it if it finds, after notice and 
opportunity for hearing, that the accountant engaged in “improper professional conduct.”  Such 
improper professional conduct includes, as applicable here, negligent conduct, defined as “[r]epeated 
instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable professional 
standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice before the Commission.”  Rule 
102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2).  
        
       27.    Quinto, as engagement partner, was responsible for ensuring that the Audit and 
Quarterly Reviews were conducted in accordance with PCAOB Standards.  Instead, under 
Quinto’s leadership, Vasquez’s engagement team for Soyo: failed to obtain sufficient competent 
evidential matter, AU § 326; failed to properly consider Soyo’s ability to continue as a going 
concern, AU § 341; failed to modify the auditor’s report appropriately when Soyo did not make 
required disclosures, AU § 431; failed to act with due professional care, AU § 230; failed to 
prepare and maintain adequate work papers, PCAOB AS No. 3; and failed to adhere to standards 
of conducting reviews of interim financial information, AU § 722.  These multiple audit and 
quarterly review failures demonstrate that Quinto’s actions during the Soyo engagements were 
unreasonable, failed to conform to applicable professional standards, and indicate a lack of 
competence to practice before the Commission. 
 
F.     FINDINGS 
 
       28.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Quinto engaged in improper 
professional conduct pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
                
                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Quinto’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Quinto is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant.   
 
       B.      After one year from the date of this Order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      

                                                10 
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                      (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Board in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and 
such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that that inspection did not identify any 
criticisms of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that 
would indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
 

                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
 
       C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include  
consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to 
Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice 
before the Commission.  
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                    Secretary 
                                               11 
 
