---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED                              STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                        the 

                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 60242 / July 2, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3006 / July 2, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-13540 
 
                                                
In the Matter of                              ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                              ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS AND 
      Vernon Jeffrey Harrell,                  IMPOSING TEMPORARY SUSPENSION 
                                               PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e)(3) OF THE 
                                        Respondent. COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE 
                                                
                                                
 
 
                                            I.  
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to 
Rule 102(e)(3)1
               of the Commission’s Rules of Practice against Vernon Jeffrey Harrell 
(“Respondent”).   
                                              
                                            II.  
 
      The Commission finds that: 

                                                 
1 
      Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any attorney, accountant, 
engineer, or other professional or expert who has been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any 
court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the 
Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal 
securities laws or of the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

  
 A.           RESPONDENT  
 
              1.      Harrell, age 42, resides in Ft. Laude rdale, Florida.  From December 1999  
through June 28, 2008, Harrell served as Chairman of the Board, Pr esident, CEO, Secretary, and 
Principal Financial and Accounting Officer for Video Without Boundaries, Inc. (“Video”), whose  
common stock is registered with the Commission   pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”).  Harrell  is not licensed as a CPA and is not registered  
with the Commission in any capacity. 
 
       B.     CIVIL INJUNCTION       
 
              2.      On April 6, 2009, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida 
entered by consent a judgment against Harrell, perm anently enjoining him from future violations 
of Sections 5(a) and 5(c) of the Securities Ac  t of 1933 (“Securities Act”), and Sections 10(b), 
13(b)(5), 13(d), and 16(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 13a-14, 13b2-1, 13d-1, 13d-2, and 
16a-3 thereunder, in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Video 
Without Boundaries, Inc., et al., Civil Action Number 08-61517-CIV-GOLD/McALILY. 
 
              3.      The Commission’s compla    int in that action alleged that, from at least April 
2003 through November 2005, Video, at the direction of Harrell, filed annual and quarterly reports  
with the Commission that, among other things, materially overstated the company’s revenues and 
assets and understated its net lo sses.  The complaint further alle ged that Harrell falsely certified 
numerous annual and quarterly reports Video file d with the Commission that he knew, or was   
severely reckless in not knowing, contained material misstatements and omissions.  Moreover, 
according to the complaint, from November 2003  to September 2006, Harrell, along with Video’s 
largest shareholder and creditor, issued fals e and misleading press re  leases announcing its 
acquisition of another company, the availability of large credit facilities, and that it was operating 
an international subsidiary. 
 
              4.      The complaint further alleged that Harrell maintained Video’s books and 
records, created its financial statements, and prepared and signed all the related certifications under  
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as both the principal executive officer and principal financial and 
accounting officer.  As alleged in the complaint, Harrell engaged in fraudulent accounting practices  
and caused Video to file Forms 10-KSB for 2002 and 2003 and Forms 10-QSB for all quarters of 
2004 that materially overstated Video’s revenues, improperly accounted for a failed acquisition, 
and materially understated net losses. 
 
                                              III. 
                                                 
       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that a court of competent jurisdiction has  
permanently enjoined Harrell from violating the federal securities laws within the meaning of Rule 
102(e)(3)(i)(A) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  In view  of these findings, the Commission 
deems it appropriate and in the public interest that Harrell be temporarily suspended from 
appearing or practicing before the Commission. 

                                                2
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
         IT IS HEREBY  ORDERED that Harrell be, and hereby is, temporarily suspended from 
appearing or practicing before the Commission.  This Order shall be effective upon service on the 
Respondent. 
 
        IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Harrell may within thirty days after service of this Order 
file a petition with the Commission to lift the temporary suspension.  If the Commission within 
thirty days after service of the Order receives no petition, the suspension shall become permanent 
pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(ii). 
 
        If a petition is received within thirty days after service of this Order, the Commission shall, 
within thirty days after the filing of the petition, either lift the temporary suspension, or set the 
matter down for hearing at a time and place to be designated by the Commission, or both.  If a 
hearing is ordered, following the hearing, the Commission may lift the suspension, censure the  
petitioner, or disqualify the petitioner from appearing or practicing before the Commission for a 
period of time, or  permanently, pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(iii). 
 
        This Order shall be served upon Harrell personally or by certified mail at his last known 
address. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                               M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                         

                                                        3
  
