---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                 STATES OF AMERICA 
 
                                           Before the 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 61191 / December 17, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3082 / December 17, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13720 
 
                                                      ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC  
In the Matter of 
                                    ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
                                                      PURSUANT TO SECTION 4C OF THE 
RANDY G. FLETCHALL, CPA,
                             EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND RULE 
                                                      102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S  
Respondent. 
                                         RULES OF PRACTICE, MAKING 
                                                      FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                                      REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
  
                                                I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
Randy G. Fletchall, CPA (“Fletchall” or “Respondent”) pursuant to Section 4C 1
                                                                              of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.2 
          

                                                 
1 
 Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:                            
 
       The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the privilege                       
of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way,  if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the   
requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be   lacking in character or integrity, or to have engaged in  
unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have   willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the 
violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.   
 
2 
         Rule 102(e)(1) provides, in relevant part:   
 
       The Commission may censure a person . . . who is found . . .    
        
                                              * * * 
                                                     
               (ii) to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct.    
        
                                              * * * 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                    
                                                  II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the purpose 
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are  
admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative 
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 4C of the Exchange Act of  1934 and Rule 102(e) of the  
Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), 
as set forth below.   
 
                                                  III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds      3
                                                                                      that:  
 
                                              Summary  
 
       1.      This matter involves improper professional conduct in 2003 by Fletchall, who was 
the head of the National Office of Ernst & Young LLP (“E&Y”).  Fletchall engaged in a single 
instance of highly unreasonable conduct with respect to a change of accounting policy by an 
E&Y audit client, Bally Total Fitness Holding Corporation (“Bally”), in connection with a 
particular revenue recognition issue.  Bally’s prior accounting policy for the revenue at issue, 
which E&Y had audited for years, was clearly not in conformity with accounting principles 
generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”). 
        
       2.      In connection with his role in a consultation on the change in Bally’s revenue 
recognition policy, Fletchall did not make sufficient inquiries under circumstances where 
heightened scrutiny was warranted.  Notwithstanding the need for heightened scrutiny, Fletchall 
failed to exercise due care as required by professional standards.  
 

                                                                                                                                                             
               (iv) with respect to persons licensed to practice as accountants, “improper professional conduct”   
               under Rule  102(e)(1)(ii) means: 
                
                                                 * * * 
 
               (B) either of the following two types of negligent conduct: 
                
                       (1) a single instance of high  ly unreasonable conduct that results in a violation of  
                       applicable professional standards in circumstances in which an  accountant knows, or  
                       should know, that heightened scrutiny is warranted.   
 
3 
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other    
person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   
                                                    
                                                   2 

---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                          Respondent  
 
       3.     Randy G. Fletchall, age 57, is and was at all relevant times a certified public  
accountant licensed in Arizona, New York and Texas and a partner at E&Y.  Starting in 2001, 
Fletchall was E&Y’s Vice-Chair for Assurance and Advisory Business Services (“AABS”)    
Professional Practice through June 2003, when his title was changed to Vice-Chair, AABS 
Professional Practice and Risk Management.  Fletchall was appointed to E&Y’s Americas  
Executive Board in July 2003.     
                                                 
                                    Other Relevant Entities  
 
       4.     E&Y is a national public accounting firm  and, during the relevant period, served as  
the independent auditor for Bally.   
        
       5.     Bally is a Delaware corporation, purported to be the largest, and only nationwide, 
commercial operator of fitness centers.  At all relevant times, Bally's common stock was 
registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and traded on the 
New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”).  The NYSE delisted Bally's common stock on June 8, 
2007.  After filing for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, on September 
17, 2007, Bally emerged as a privately held reorganized entity.  On February 28, 2008, the 
Commission filed a settled injunctive action against Bally in the United States District Court for 
the District of Columbia, charging Bally with violating Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of  
1933, Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 10b-5, 
12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder.  The District Court issued permanent injunctions 
on May 8, 2008. 
        
                         Bally’s “Reactivation” Revenue Recognition  
        
       6.     The particular revenue recognition policy about which Fletchall was consulted 
pertained to Bally’s “reactivation” revenue.  “Reactivations” were payments from Bally 
members who had completed their initial contract period, but whose memberships were canceled 
for failure to pay the monthly dues necessary to maintain their membership.  Bally did not 
attempt to recover those dues because there was no legal obligation to pay such monthly dues.  
Accordingly, for those canceled members who had completed the initial contract period, Bally 
waited at least six months after receiving their last monthly dues payment and then began 
soliciting those canceled members to reactivate.  Those who accepted the reactivation offers did 
so, on average, 36 months after having stopped paying their monthly dues.  The reactivation 
offers did not contain claims for or seek payment of “past due” amounts.  Instead, they asked for 
either a nominal reactivation fee or no reactivation fee at all, and the payment of monthly dues 
for a period of future service. 
        
       7.     Bally's reactivation revenue recognition policy was to project (as of the balance 
sheet date) the reactivation payments it anticipated receiving during the coming year and then 
immediately recognize most of these projected payments by improperly allocating them to past 
periods.  Bally's reactivation revenue recognition policy was not in conformity with GAAP 

                                                 
                                               3 

---------------------Page 4---------------------

because the use of this method enabled Bally to recognize revenue before it was earned and was 
realized or realizable. 4
                         Bally recognized revenue before it was earned because, among other 
things, it barred canceled former members from the gyms, and therefore, had not provided 
services to those of its canceled members who might reactivate in the future.  Additionally, Bally 
recognized revenue before it was realized or realizable because it was recognizing revenue for 
reactivations that had not yet occurred, which it anticipated from canceled former members 
whom it could not identify individually and who had no legal obligation to reactivate or pay 
Bally anything at all.  In short, Bally violated GAAP by recognizing revenue related to the 
anticipated future payments before the reactivation transactions occurred.  
        
               During the Consultation, Fletchall Did Not Exercise Due Care Where  
                                 Heightened Scrutiny Was Warranted  
        
       8.      On June 16, 2003, Fletchall received a telephone call from E&Y partners Mark V. 
Sever, Kenneth W. Peterson, and William J. Carpenter.  Sever was the National Director of Area 
Professional Practice and reported directly to Fletchall.  Peterson was the Professional Practice 
Director for E&Y’s Lake Michigan Area office while also serving as the Independent Review 
Partner on the Bally audit.  Carpenter was the Bally audit engagement partner.  During this 
consultation, which lasted 25 minutes, Sever, Peterson and Carpenter requested Fletchall’s 
approval for E&Y to issue a preferability letter concerning Bally’s change from recognizing 
“reactivation” revenue on an accrual basis to recognizing “reactivation” revenue on a cash basis. 
        
       9.      Under E&Y’s internal procedures, approval from the National Office was a 
mandatory prerequisite to E&Y issuing a preferability letter.  In this case, Fletchall determined 
whether to give National Office approval to issue the preferability letter.   
        
       10.     A “preferability letter” is issued by an auditor to a client concerning a change in 
accounting principle.  A preferability letter may only be issued when an auditor’s client is 
changing from an accounting principle that is in conformity with GAAP to another accounting 
principle that is both (a) in conformity with GAAP and (b) is “preferable” to the previously 
applied principle.  A preferability letter may not be issued if the change is from an error, that is, 
an accounting principle that is not in conformity with GAAP to an accounting principle that is in 
conformity with GAAP.  If an error exists such that a company’s previously issued financial 
statements were not fairly presented, in all material respects, in conformity with GAAP, the 
auditor is required to insist upon a correction of the error.  If the company does not restate its 
financial statements to correct the error, the auditor must issue a qualified or adverse audit 
opinion. 
 
       11.     During the consultation on June 16, 2003, Fletchall did not exercise due care by   
making sufficient inquiries, despite the fact that heightened scrutiny was warranted in connection 

                                                 
4 
 See, e.g., Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43, Restatement and Revision of Accounting Research Bulletins                             , 
Chapter 1A (1953); Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 10, Omnibus Opinion (1966); Statement of Financial   
Accounting Concepts No. 5, Recognition and Measurement in Financial Statements of Business Enterprises                     (1985);  
Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements, Topic 13.A (1999).  
                                                   
                                                 4 

---------------------Page 5---------------------

with Bally’s accounting for reactivations.  Fletchall had knowledge of circumstances that 
warranted heightened scrutiny. 
        
       12.    First, because he was in charge of risk management efforts for E&Y’s AABS 
practice, Fletchall became aware in the fall of 2002 that, out of E&Y’s approximately 10,000 
North American clients, Bally was one of E&Y’s 18 highest risk clients. He also knew that in 
2001 and 2002, a series of widely known financial scandals led E&Y to assess its audit risks and 
the firm took steps to identify and resign from or focus on certain of its riskiest clients.  These 18 
riskiest accounts -- including Bally -- were so-called “National Focus Accounts” and were 
monitored by the Americas Executive Board.   
        
       13.    Second, Fletchall had been informed previously that Bally’s accounting positions  
were “aggressive.”  In October 2002, Fletchall was provided with a memorandum regarding 
E&Y’s 2002 client continuance process.  An attachment to this memorandum provided 
additional information about a list of E&Y clients designated for additional attention and stated, 
among other things, Bally’s “CEO and CFO are former [E&Y] partners, have been aggressive in 
accounting positions, and very focused on meeting or beating Wall Street expectations.”  
Additionally, Sever discussed with Fletchall the list of National Focus Accounts and the reasons 
why those accounts had been selected as National Focus Accounts.   
        
       14.    Third, in the course of the consultation about the preferability letter, Sever 
informed Fletchall that Bally’s revenue recognition policy for “reactivations,” while in his view 
GAAP-compliant, was “aggressive.” 
        
       15.    According to the E&Y firm-wide revenue recognition guidance co-issued by 
Fletchall in 1997, “Aggressive accounting policies or practices” are a “warning signal” that 
requires E&Y to “carefully evaluate the appropriateness of the client’s accounting for the 
transaction . . . ”  That guidance further notes that revenue recognition is an area that is 
particularly susceptible to fraud. 
        
       16.    Fourth and finally, Fletchall’s “first reaction [to the request for a preferability 
letter] was it seemed a little strange, going from an accrual basis to a cash basis.”  Under GAAP,  
accrual accounting is presumptively the proper basis for accounting, and cash basis accounting is 
presumptively wrong because it is proper under GAAP only when collectibility of amounts owed 
by customers is not reasonably assured.   
 
         Fletchall’s Approval of the Preferability Letter Constituted A Single Instance of   
             Highly Unreasonable Conduct in Violation of His Duty to Exercise  
                        Due Care in Accordance with Professional Standards  
        
       17.    Article V of the Principles of Professional Conduct (ET Section 56) requires that 
an accountant exercise due care when discharging professional responsibilities.  Due care 
requires the accountant to discharge professional responsibilities with competence and diligence.  
Diligence imposes the responsibility to render services carefully, to be thorough, and to observe 
applicable technical and ethical standards.   

                                                 
                                               5 

---------------------Page 6---------------------

        
       18.     Notwithstanding the fact that heightened scrutiny was warranted, Fletchall did not 
exercise due care.  Specifically, he failed to obtain sufficient information that was required for 
him to:  (1) overcome concerns regarding the historical accounting by Bally that should have 
been raised by the warning signals associated with the proposed accounting change, and (2) 
determine whether the proposed preferability letter could be issued.   
        
       19.     With respect to the latter determination, Fletchall failed to exercise due care by 
conducting sufficient inquiries regarding Bally’s prior accounting method.  Fletchall was 
required to understand the current accounting policy, the proposed new accounting policy, and 
compare the two in order to determine whether the proposed new accounting policy was, indeed, 
preferable.  Second, Fletchall was required to determine if Bally had provided sufficient 
justification for the change to overcome the “presumption that an accounting principle once 
adopted should not be changed . . . .”  Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 20, ¶¶ 15 & 16.     
        
       20.     A reasonable accountant who understood Bally’s accrual basis of recognizing 
revenue for “reactivations” would conclude that it was not in conformity with GAAP, because 
Bally was recognizing revenue that was not realized or realizable, and had not been earned.  
        
       21.     Thus, if Fletchall had exercised due care in determining whether to approve 
E&Y’s issuance of the preferability letter, by making sufficient inquiries regarding Bally’s 
accounting for reactivations, he would have concluded that:  (1) Bally’s current accounting 
policy was not in conformity with GAAP and was in fact an accounting error; (2) no preferability 
letter could be issued, and (3) Bally was required to restate its previously issued financial 
statements to correct that accounting error.   
         
       22.     Nonetheless, during the call on June 16, 2003, Fletchall reached a “firm  
conclusion” that cash basis accounting was preferable to accrual basis accounting for recognizing 
“reactivation” revenue and he gave oral approval to Sever, Peterson, and Carpenter that, subject 
to the receipt of an acceptable written request for a preferability letter from Bally, E&Y would 
issue the preferability letter.  Fletchall’s views did not change when he later received Bally’s 
written request for a preferability letter, and on August 10, 2003, Fletchall gave his written 
approval to issue the preferability letter.   
 
       23.     As a result of Bally’s failure to correct its improper accounting for reactivations in 
the appropriate manner, Bally improperly avoided restating its previously issued financial 
statements and instead improperly recorded a $20.3 million (pre-tax effect) cumulative effect 
charge to implement a cash basis of accounting for recognizing reactivation revenue.    
 
                                            Findings  
 
       Based on the foregoing, Fletchall engaged in improper professional conduct pursuant to 
Rules 102(e)(1)(ii) and 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(1) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  Specifically, 
the Commission finds Fletchall’s failure constitutes a single instance of highly unreasonable 

                                                  
                                                6 

---------------------Page 7---------------------

conduct that resulted in a violation of professional standards in circumstances in which Fletchall 
knew or should have known that heightened scrutiny was warranted.   
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                     IV. 
 
           In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanction 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
           Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
           Respondent Fletchall is censured pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1) of the Commission’s Rules 
of Practice. 
            
 By the Commission. 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                                                 M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                                           
 

                                                                        
                                                                      7 

