---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 65882 / December 5, 2011 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3339 / December 5, 2011 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14651 
                                          
                                         :       
                                         :       
                                         :        
In the Matter of                         :      ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                        :       PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
     MARK A. KONYNDYK, CPA,      :              102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                        :       PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
     Respondent.                        :       IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                        :        
                                        :        
                                        :        
____________________________________ :            
 
                                           I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Mark A. 
Konyndyk (“Respondent” or “Konyndyk”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1
                   
                                             

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
                                              II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.2 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
 
                                              III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
              1.      Konyndyk, age 33, was at all relevant times a certified public accountant.  
Although his CPA licenses are now inactive, he was licensed to practice in the State of North 
Carolina from February 21, 2005 until his licensed lapsed on June 30, 2011.  He also was licensed 
in the State of Georgia from June 20, 2007 until December 31, 2009.  He worked in the 
Transactions Advisory Services group (last serving as a Manager) at Ernst & Young LLP (“E&Y”) 
from 2003 until his resignation on November 2, 2007.   
        
              2.      On November 21, 2011, a f inal judgment was entered by consent against 
Konyndyk, permanently enjoining him from future violations of Section 14(e) of the Exchange Act 
and Rule 14e-3 thereunder, in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. 
Mark A. Konyndyk   , (“SEC v. Konyndyk”) (Civil Action Number 11-CV-02055-GK), in the 
United States District Court for the District of Columbia.  Konyndyk also  was ordered to pay 
$9,725.00 in disgorgement of ill-gotten gains from his sales of stock while participating in the 
fraud, and $1,789.28 in prejudgment interest, and a $9,725.00 civil money penalty. 
 
              3.      The Commission’s complaint in SEC v. Konyndyk     alleged, among other 
things, that Konyndyk traded in Activision Inc. call options during the last week before the public 
announcement that Vivendi S.A. had agreed to acquire Activision by tender offer; and that he did 
so despite having performed buy-side due-diligence work on the underlying acquisition talks for 
E&Y’s client, Vivendi, while employed at E&Y.  The complaint further alleged that Konyndyk 
knew or had reason to know the information he possessed about the Activision acquisition talks 
was material and nonpublic.  The complaint also alleged that at the time of Konyndyk’s Activision 
options trading, substantial steps had been taken in furtherance of the tender offer.  
        
 
 
 

                                               2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
                                               IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Konyndyk’s Offer.   
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Konyndyk is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
       B.      After two years (or 24 months) from the date of this order, Respondent may 
request that the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application 
(attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as: 
      
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                      (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he  
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision;                   

                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
      

                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                    Secretary 
 

                                                4  
