---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED                                STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                          the 

 SECURITIES                         AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 63682 / January 7, 2011 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3225 / January 7, 2011 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-14181 
                                            
                                              : 
                                           :       
                                           :        
       In the Matter of                    :      ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                             :    PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
              ERIC SIERACKI (CPA),  :             102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                           :      PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
              Respondent.                  :      IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                       : 
                                                       : 
____________________________________ :              
                                                   
                                                
                                              I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Eric 
Sieracki (“Respondent” or “Sieracki”) pursuant to  Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of  
Practice.1 
           

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder.  
 
As stated below, Sieracki was permanently enjoined on the basis of his consent as part of a 
settlement without any finding of misconduct. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Paragraph 3 of Section III below, which are admitted, 
Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to  
Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
              1.      Sieracki, age 54, has been a certified  public accountant licensed to practice in  
the State of California, which license has been canceled upon non-renewal.  He served as Chief 
Financial Officer of Countrywide Financial Corporation (“Countrywide”) from 2005 until July 
2008. 
        
              2.      Countrywide, a Delaware    corporation, was at all relevant times, a mortgage  
lender based in Calabasas, California.  Its stock was registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and was listed on the New York Stock 
Exchange.  On July 1, 2008, Countrywide merged with Bank of America and is now a wholly  
owned subsidiary of Bank of America.  On July 1, 2008, the NYSE filed a Form 25 to deregister 
and delist Countrywide’s common stock, and on July 22, 2008 Countrywide filed a Form 15 
deregistering its common stock under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act. 
 
              3.      On June 4, 2009, the Commission filed a compla  int against Sieracki in SEC 
v. Angelo Mozilo, et al.  (Civil Action No. CV 09-3994 (JFW) (MANx), in the United States 
District Court for the Central District of California.  By consent, on October 15, 2010, the court  
entered a judgment permanently enjoining Sieracki from future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and 
17(a)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933, ordering him to pay a $130,000 civil money penalty, and 
fully and finally disposing of all claims asserted in the complaint against Sieracki. 
 
              4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Sieracki 
 was aware of increasing credit risk at Countrywide caused by expanded loan underwriting 
 guidelines and loans written as exceptions to those guidelines.  The complaint also alleged that 
 Sieracki was aware of concerns expressed internally, including by Countrywide’s chief 
 executive officer, regarding the expected performance of Countrywide’s Pay-Option ARM loan 
 portfolio.  The complaint alleged that at the same time, Countrywide made representations 
 regarding its underwriting and credit risk in periodic filings with the Commission, signed by 
 Sieracki, which were false or rendered misleading by the omission of material information 
 regarding underwriting guidelines, exceptions, and attendant credit risk.   

                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
 
                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Sieracki’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
       A.      Sieracki is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.  
 
       B.      After one year from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the  
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the  
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as:  
      
                                1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
      
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                            (a) Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight      Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                       (b)     Respondent, or the registered  public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms  
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                (c)            Respondent has resolved all di sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                       (d)     Respondent acknowledges     his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 
      

                                                 3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

         C.       The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume  
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission.                  
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                                       M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                                 

                                                              4
  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                           Service List  
 
       Rule 141 of the Commission's Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or another duly 
authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order Instituting Administrative 
Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and 
Imposing Remedial Sanctions ("Order"), on the Respondent and his legal agents. 
 
       The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to 
notice:  
 
Honorable Brenda P. Murray                              
Chief Administrative Law Judge                          
Securities and Exchange Commission  
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-2557                     
 
Spencer E. Bendell, Esq. 
Los Angeles Regional Office  
Securities and Exchange Commission 
5670 Wilshire Boulevard, 11 th
                               Floor  
Los Angeles, CA 90035 
      
Erik Sieracki, CPA 
c/o Shirli Fabbri Weiss, Esq. 
DLA Piper  
401 B Street, Suite 1700 
San Diego, CA 92101-4297 
                                                      
Shirli Fabbri Weiss, Esq.  
DLA Piper 
401 B Street, Suite 1700 
San Diego, CA 92101-4297 
 
 

                                                5
  
