---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                                 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                               before the 
                        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  66479 / February 27, 2012 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  3367 / February 27, 2012 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-14780
                                                                        
                                                                              :              
                                                :              
                                                :               
        In the Matter of                        :        ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                   :     PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
      ROBERT CHIU,                                 :     102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
          (A/K/A Chi Hung Chiu)                           : PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                                   :     IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                Respondent.                                :              
                                                   :              
____________________________________ :               
                                                               
 
                                                    I. 
 
        The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against   Robert 
Chiu (“Chiu” or “Respondent    ”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1
             
                                                     

                                                 
1
        Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
        The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by order, . . . 
suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has been by name . . . permanently 
enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the 
Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of 
the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
 
                                              II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings                                                                  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III, Paragraph 3 below, which are admitted, 
Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to 
Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
              1.      Chiu, 51, was an audit partner at a major public accounting firm (the 
“Firm”) and served as its Relationship Partner for the Syntax-Brillian Corporation (“Syntax”) 
engagement for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, and the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 
2006.  Chiu also played a similar role in the Firm’s audit of South China House of Technology 
Consultants Co. Ltd. (“SCHOT”) in 2007.  Chiu has never been licensed as a Certified Public 
Accountant.  He is a United States citizen living in Valley Village, California. 
        
              2.      Syntax was a Delaware corporation headquartered in Tempe, Arizona.  
Syntax developed and marketed, among other things, high-definition LCD  televisions primarily in 
the United States and purportedly in China.  At all relevant times, the Company’s common stock 
was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (“Exchange Act”).  Prior to its suspension on July 22, 2008, the Company’s common stock 
was listed for trading on the Nasdaq under the stock symbol “BRLC.”  The Company’s fiscal year 
ends on June 30. 
               
              3.      On January 30, 2012, the Commission filed a Complaint against Chiu  in the 
United States District Court for the District of Arizona.  On February 20, 2012, the Court entered 
an order permanently enjoining Chiu, by consent, from aiding and abetting violations of Sections 
10(b), 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B), and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act, and Exchange Act Rules 10b-5, 
13b2-1, and 13b2-2. 
 
              4.       The Complaint allege s that Chiu aided and abetted a fraudulent revenue 
recognition scheme.  From at least June 2006 through April 2008, Syntax’s senior management 
and members of its Board of Directors engaged in a complex scheme to overstate Syntax’s 
revenues and earnings and artificially inflate its stock price.  This resulted in Syntax’s reported 
financial statements being materially false and misleading from the fiscal year ended June 30, 
2006, through the fiscal first quarter ended September 30, 2007.  The scheme was concealed with 

                                               2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
forged sales and shipping documents, as well as through the circular transfer of cash among and 
between Syntax, its primary manufacturer in Taiwan, Taiwan Kolin Co., Ltd., and its purported 
distributor in Hong Kong, SCHOT    , that altogether created a façade of substantial revenues and 
cash flows. 
                
               5.      According to the Complaint, as part of the fraudulent scheme, Syntax 
executives sought to recognize revenue on what were actually fictitious fiscal 2006 year-end sales 
between Syntax and SCHOT.  Based on the facts presented to Chiu, he knew it was improper for 
the Company to recognize revenue on these sales.  Specifically, Chiu knew that the sales failed to 
meet requirements under GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) due in part to the 
lack of a valid sales distribution agreement between Syntax and SCHOT at the time of the 
purported sales. 
                
               6.      The Complaint also alleges that, during the period between August and 
September of 2007, based on audit procedures the Firm performed in the audits of SCHOT’s 
financial statements for the period ended in March 2007, Chiu also failed to object to the Firm’s 
issuance of multiple consents to the reissuance of its audit opinion to Syntax’s Form 10-K for fiscal 
year 2007. 
                
               7.           By the conduct described herein, Chiu aided and abetted the antifraud, 
recordkeeping, internal control, and communication with   auditors provisions of the federal 
securities laws. 
                
                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent  ’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Chiu is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
       B.      After 5 years from the date of this order, Chiu may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant. 
      
                            
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                                                     Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                                                     Secretary 

                                                 3  
