---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                
                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  

                                         Before the 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 63940 / February 22, 2011 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No.  3245 / February 22, 2011 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-11377 

                            : 
                           : 
In the Matter of              ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           : 
                              REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
                           : 
Benedict P. Rybicki, CPA      BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT  
                           : 
                           : 
                           
        
       On August 5, 2004, Benedict P. Rybicki, CPA ("Rybicki") was denied  the privilege of  
appearing or practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against Rybicki pursuant to Rule 
102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                              Rybicki consented to the entry of the order 
without admitting or denying the findings therein.  This order is issued in response to Rybicki’s 
application for reinstatement to practice before the Commission as an accountant. 
        
       In his role as the sole engagement manager for Doeren Mayhew & Co., P.C.’s joint audit, 
with Grant Thornton LLP, of MCA Financial Corporation’s (“MCA”) 1998 annual financial 
statements, Rybicki was alleged to have engaged in improper professional conduct.  The 
Commission alleged that Rybicki recklessly engaged in conduct that resulted in violations of 
professional standards and recklessly failed to follow applicable auditing standards in the areas 
of mortgages and land contracts held for resale and related party transactions.  Rybicki’s conduct 
also caused and willfully aided and abetted MCA’s violations of Section 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rules 12b-20 and 15d-1 thereunder.  Finally, 
Rybicki willfully aided and abetted violations of Section 10A of the Exchange Act by failing to 
assure that MCA’s audit committee or board of directors were adequately informed of suspected  
illegal acts that were detected in the course of the audit. 
        

                                                 
1 
 See  Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2076 dated August 5, 2004.  Rybicki was permitted,   
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after one year upon making certain showings.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

       Rybicki has met all of the conditions set forth in his suspension order and, in his capacity 
as an independent accountant, has stated that he will comply with all requirements of the 
Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, including, but not limited to 
all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
control standards.  In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the 
preparation or review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the 
Commission, Rybicki attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the 
independent audit committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner 
acceptable to the Commission, while practicing before the Commission in this capacity.   
        
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”     2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
        On the basis of the information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed 
to by Rybicki, it appears that he has complied with the terms of  the August 5, 2004 order 
denying him the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, 
that no information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, 
integrity, professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be 
a basis for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of 
Practice, and that Rybicki, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit 
committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, in his practice before the Commission as a preparer     or reviewer of financial 
statements required to be filed with the Commission, and that Rybicki, by undertaking to comply 
with all requirements of the Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, 
including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring 
partner reviews and quality control standards, in his practice before the Commission as an 
independent accountant has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Benedict P. Rybicki, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as 
an accountant. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                               
                                               
                                                              
                                                             Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                             Secretary 

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3)  
of this section may be made at any time, and the applic ant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated                         
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i).                        
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                      SERVICE LIST
  
 
Benedict P. Rybicki 
c/o Jason D. Killups      
Young & Susser, P.C. 
26200 American Drive 
Suite 305 
Southfield, MI 48034 
 
Jason D. Killups      
Young & Susser, P.C. 
26200 American Drive 
Suite 305 
Southfield, MI 48034 
Counsel for Respondent 
                                                         
