---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 67048 / May 23, 2012 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3386 / May 23, 2012 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-10415 

                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Charles P. Morrison, CPA 
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                          
        

       On January 31, 2001 Charles P. Morrison , CPA (“Morrison”) was suspended from  
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against Morrison pursuant to Rule 
102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                                   Morrison  consented to the entry of the 
order without admitting or denying the findings therein.  This order is issued in response to 
Morrison’s application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 

       The Commission found that Morrison  had been permanently enjoined by  the United 
States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania from future violations of Section 
10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.  The 
Commission’s complaint alleged that, from at least December 1996 through July 1998, Morrison 
violated Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder by creating, reviewing 
and approving false financial statements and Disclosure Reports of the Allegheny Health, 
Education and Research Foundation (“AHERF”) and certain subsidiaries.  The complaint further 
alleged that Morrison falsely certified to the bond trustee of certain AHERF subsidiaries and 
others that the 1997 audited financial statements fairly presented the consolidated financial 
position and the results of operations for AHERF as of and for the fiscal year ended June 30, 
1997 and that they were prepared in accordance with GAAP. 
                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 1364 dated January 31, 2001.  Morrison was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after three years upon making certain showings.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                    

       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Morrison 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Morrison   is not, at this time, seeking to 
appear or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to 
resume appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will 
be required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Morrison’s  
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard   in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 

       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 

       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Morrison , it appears that he has complied with the terms of the January 31, 2001 order 
suspending him from appearing or    practicing  before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct, or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
and that Morrison, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit 
committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, in his practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial 
statements required to be filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  
Therefore, it is accordingly, 

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice that 
Charles P. Morrison, CPA is hereby reinstated  to appear and practice before the Commission as 
an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                              
                                              
                                             Elizabeth M. Murphy     
                                             Secretary  
                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and u ntil the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
 

                                                 2 
