---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                      the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 60005 / May 29, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2981 / May 29, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13495 
  
                                            CORRECTED ORDER INSTITUTING 
In the Matter of                           CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS 
                                           PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF THE 
      UNITED INDUSTRIAL                    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, 
      CORPORATION,                         MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A 
                                           CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER  
Respondent. 
 
 
 
 
  
                                          I.  
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and he reby are, instituted pursuant to  Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), agai nst United Industrial Corporation (“UIC” or    
“Respondent”).   
 
                                          II.  
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these  proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) whic h the Commission has determined  to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the  
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these  
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making  
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   

 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
                                                III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds    1
                                                                                    that:  
            
                                             Summary  
        
       1.      Beginning in late 2001, and continui ng through 2002, UIC, th rough its indirect, 
wholly owned subsidiary ACL Technologies, Inc. (“ACL”), made multiple payments to one of its 
foreign agents in connection with a military aircraft depot ACL was building for the Egyptian Air  
Force (“EAF”) in Cairo, Egypt.  Thomas Wurzel, ACL’s former President and a U.S. citizen and  
resident, authorized the payments to the agent while he knew or consciously disregarded the high 
probability that the agent would of fer, provide or promise at least a portion of such payments to 
active EAF officials for the purpose  of influencing such officials to obtain or retain business for  
UIC through ACL.  As a result, ACL, which wa        s headquartered in California at the time, was   
awarded a Contract Engineering  Technical Services (“CETS”) contract with gross revenues and 
net profit to ACL of approximately $5.3 million and $267,571, respectively.  During this time, UIC  
lacked meaningful controls to prevent or de     tect the ACL President’s authorization of illicit 
payments to the agent.  The UI C legal department approved the retention of the agent despite a   
lack of documented due diligence and the failure of the agency          agreement to  comply with 
corporate policy.  Moreover, a UIC official approved at least one payment to the agent, and the   
illicit payments to the agent were  mischaracterized on  UIC’s books and reco rds as legitimate 
business expenses.   
        
                                            Respondent  
        
       2. UIC       , a Delaware corporation headquartered in Hunt Valley, Maryland, focuses on 
the design and production of defense, training,   transportation and energy systems for the U.S. 
Department of Defense and domes tic and international customers.   At the time of the conduct 
described below, UIC’s common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 
12(b) of the Exchange Act, and was listed on the New York Stock Exchange.     2 
                                                                                
        
                                 Other Relevant Persons/Entities  
        
       3.      ACL Technologies, Inc. (“ACL”) was an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of UIC, 
and was formerly headquartered in Brea, California.  ACL’s parent corporation was AAI                 
Corporation, a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of UIC.  ACL developed, operated and maintained 

                                                 
1 
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any   
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.    
 
2 
       On December 18, 2007, UIC was acquired by an affilia te of Textron Inc. ("Te xtron"). Textron's common 
stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and is listed on the New   
York Stock Exchange.  Following the acquisition, UIC filed a Form 15 Notice of Termination of Registration of its   
common stock under Exchange Act Section 12(g).  UIC survives the acquisition as an indirect wholly owned   
subsidiary of Textron.  All  of the conduct described in Section III of this Order occurred prior to the acquisition of         
UIC by Textron.   

                                                  2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

stationary and mobile test equipment in support of  hydraulics, pneumatics, electrical, mechanical  
and fuel requirements of commercial and military aircraft.   
        
       4.      Thomas E. Wurzel, is a United States citizen and  resides in Bend, Oregon.  From 
1992 to 2004, Wurzel served as the President of ACL and maintained an office in Brea, California.    
From at least 1995 forward, UIC held Wurzel out as a member of its senior management team.     
        
                                              Facts  
 
A. Background     
 
       5.      In October 1999, the U.S. Air Force awarded ACL a project to build a F-16 combat  
aircraft depot for EAF and to provide, operate and train Egyptian labor to use the associated testing 
equipment for the depot (the “Egyptian F-16 Depot Project”).  ACL was awarded the Egyptian F-
16 Depot Project as part of the U.S. Department of      Defense’s foreign military sale (“FMS”) 
program.  FMS contracts generally are purchases by foreign governments from the U.S.                
Government of weapons and other defense items,  services and military training, which the U.S.  
Government fulfills by entering into contract       s with private-sector defense contractors.       
Accordingly, as the purchaser and ultimate end-user for the F-16 depot facility that would be built,  
the EAF directed when, to what extent and how money would be spent on the project.    3
                                                                                         Moreover,  
the EAF could select a particular contractor for a project it desired through its use of “sole source”  
requests.  A sole source request would avoid the normal competitive bidding process and result in 
the award of a “no bid” contract to the beneficiary of the request.   
        
       6.      In connection with the Egyptian F-16 Depot Project, the EAF submitted a “sole 
source” request for ACL’s services and in 1999 ACL  was awarded the contract for the Project.   
The original 1999 award included initial funding to ACL of $14 million under the primary contract   
for development of the F-16 depot (called the “integration” contract), with an estimated total 
contract value of $28 million.   In subsequent years, ACL wa s awarded “add-on” contracts and 
contract modifications that supplemented its   revenues following ACL’ s initial award of the 
integration contract.  These additional revenues included supplemental funding for the integration 
contract of approximately $29.6 million, a separate contract to build a surface treatment facility (or  
“STF” contract) valued at approximately $2.7 million, and in April 2002, a new contract to help   
train Egyptian military personnel to operate the F-16 depot, known as CETS, ultimately valued at  
approximately $5.3 million.  In total, the Egyptian F-16 Depot Project,     including the principal  
integration contract, the STF and CETS contracts, and other modifi   cations and add-on contracts, 
generated approximately $64 million in revenue and $8.6 million in net profit for ACL from 1999  
through 2004, representing over one-third of ACL’s total gross revenues over the same period.     
 

                                                 
3 
       Although the EAF was the customer for the Egyptian F-16 Depot Project, ACL did not enter into any                
formal arrangement directly with the EAF; rather, AC L’s contractual obligations for the Egyptian F-16 Depot   
Project were with the U.S. Air Force,  which served as an intermediary on the  Project and supervised logistical and 
procurement matters.     

                                                 3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

B.     ACL Retains a Former EAF General as Consultant 
 
       7.      By at least December 1996, Wurzel (“ACL’s President”) had enlisted the assistance  
of a foreign agent, a retired EAF General (the “EAF Agent”), to act as a consultant to ACL to help  
influence the EAF in moving the  Egyptian F-16 Depot Project forw ard.  By at least December   
1997, ACL’s President also authorized monthly  stipends of $4,000 to the EAF Agent, although 
ACL did not maintain any due diligence files for the agent at that  time and did not have a formal 
consulting contract with the  agent until March 13, 1998 (at wh  ich time the agent’s monthly 
stipends were raised to $20,000).  As ACL’s President stated in 1997 correspondence to the EAF 
Agent, the purpose for hiring the agent was clear:  “[ACL’s] objective, as before, is to convince the  
EAF to hire us as the integrating contractor” for the Project.  As a former EAF General, the EAF  
Agent’s potential to influence the contracting process was heightened as, according to ACL’s Vice   
President and Program Manager for the Egyptian F-16 Depot Project, in Egypt, “it’s a very small     
community of high-level military people.”  In addition, ACL’s President was aware that the EAF  
Agent had a personal relationship with at least one active EAF official. 
       
       8.      Shortly after the Project’s initial October 1999 award, ACL’s President authorized 
the EAF Agent, through his comp  any, to continue to act as ACL’s consultant for obtaining 
business.  The EAF Agent’s role  as the company’s Egyptian-based “consultant” was continued 
through a new consulting agreement with the agent in November 1999.            4
                                                                                  That agreement 
essentially renewed the terms of the prior 1998 c onsulting contract, including paying the agent a 
monthly stipend of $20,000 per month.  Although ACL had alr         eady been awarded the initial 
integrating contract for the Egyptian F-16 Depot Project, this new agreement was geared towards 
helping solicit new or add-on business related to   the Project.  ACL’s President described this   
understanding of the continuing consulting relationship in an e-mail to the agent in February 2001:   
“We are certainly interested in paying for other new business if you can work it. . . .  [T]he training 
effort needs some influence to make sure we are not excluded and the EAF needs to insist on our 
follow on support after the Depot is in place.”5 
                                                 
        
       9.      In April 2000, several months afte     r the initial October 1999 award, ACL’s 
President also separately authorized the EAF Agent to act as a local labor subcontractor for ACL in  
connection with its work on the Egyptian F-16 Depo t Project.  In this role, the EAF Agent was 
brought under the umbrella of ACL’s principal contract with the U.S. Air Force, with the agent’s  
company receiving reimbursement from ACL for coordinating the retention of local labor for the 
Project.  Beginning in the fall of 2000, ACL made periodic payments to the EAF Agent’s company  
for his provision of local labor on the larger   Egyptian F-16 Depot Proj ect.  The EAF Agent   
submitted monthly invoices to ACL for these services and included in these invoices were the 
agent’s own expenses as “program manager” on      the project with compensation varying between 
$4,300 and $11,100 per month.  This compensation was separate  from the consulting fees ACL 

                                                 
4 
       Around this time, UIC’s legal department first approved the retention of the EAF Agent as ACL’s agent for  
the Egyptian Depot Project, despite knowing that ACL had   already been using the EAF Agent as its agent without 
prior approval, and despite also knowi ng that the EAF Agent’s existing agency agreement did not conform to UIC’s  
policies prohibiting contingent arrangements on government contracts.     
 
5 
       “Follow on support” refers to a contract modificati on to permit ACL’s continuing to assist the EAF with   
the new aircraft maintenance depot once the primary work constructing the depot was complete.                       

                                                 4
  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

paid to the agent, which by August of 2000 ha d totaled over $434,000.   However, because ACL 
rolled the EAF Agent’s subcontract labor expenses into ACL’s submission  to the U.S. Air Force 
for reimbursement of its aggregate material costs on the Egyptian F-16 Depot Project, ACL        
routinely was late in making payment to the  EAF Agent’s company under the labor subcontract. 
 
       10.    By mid-2001 ACL had satisfied its re  maining obligations under the consulting   
agreement executed with the EAF Agent in November 1999, and it was not renewed.  However, as  
articulated in an e-mail from the EAF Agent in   June 2001, ACL’s President had promised “to 
continue paying us the consultant fee either through the service contract or any other way.”  As a 
result, from mid-2001 through  2002, the EAF Agent regularly contacted ACL’s President to 
request a variety of payments, a portion of whic h related to reimbursement to the EAF Agent’s 
company for the legitimate provisi on of local labor on the Projec t, and a portion of which were  
requests for additional funds in circumstances that  strongly indicated they would be used to make  
illicit payments.  ACL’s President approved payments for additional funds, and he also knew that 
the EAF Agent charged ACL for his subcontract labor at a rate that enabled the agent to maintain a  
cushion between what he paid the project’s local employees and what he received from ACL; this  
cushion was on top of the agent’s own salary as “project manager” of the subcontract labor.     
 
C.     Illicit Payments Tied to CETS Contract 
 
 (i)            Improper payments through cushion in the EAF Agent’s invoices 
  
               11. During early 2001, ACL targeted a new contract, known as CETS, which was      
related to the Egyptian F-16 Depot Project.  The CETS contract involved providing personnel for 
technical assistance on-site at Helwan Air Force Base in Cairo, Egypt, where the depot was being 
constructed, so that EAF personnel could get hands-on training to do testing and make repairs to 
their aircraft.  The EAF Agent assisted ACL with obtaining this contract add-on, and in August   
2001, ACL learned that the EAF had submitted to the U.S. Air Force its recommendation that ACL 
be awarded a “sole source” contract for the CETS project.  
 
                        12. In December 2001, months before the CETS project would be officially awarded to 
ACL, the EAF Agent e-mailed ACL’s President te lling him that ACL could expect the formal   
award of CETS in the near future because the EAF Agent had “succeeded to make the [EAF] give  
all the pressure on the USAF to finalize the sole source . . . .”  The EAF Agent then added, “[i]t is 
very important to start giving motivation that we discussed to give it before the year end.  It was  
better to give it before the feast but we cant [sic] do this now.”  To help provide the “motivation,”  
the EAF Agent requested an adva nce of funds separate and apar  t from payments due on his   
invoices under his local labor subcontract.  Although no separate payments were made by ACL at 
the time, within a week, at the direction of ACL’s Presid    ent, ACL wired the EAF Agent 
approximately $114,000 against invoices received from the agent for labor subcontract services.   
  
       13.    In January 2002, the EAF Agent again emailed ACL’s President requesting funds  
to cover due invoices, plus additional funds to “secure our team loyalty . . . as you have started to 
have some doubts about ou[r] commitment with them.”  When ACL had not forwarded any new 
money to the EAF Agent by late February 2002, the EAF Agent sent another more pressing e-mail  
to ACL’s President:  “Congratulations on the CETS contract.  Thank[] God that our key persons 

                                               5
  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

are still on their position till now.  We are now in a ve ry critical situation to really get the benefit 
out [sic] this contract.  We s  hould satisfy our people and really  we can not do that from our    
resources as we used to do before.”  The EAF Agent then asked for an “urgent response” from         
ACL’s President regarding a list of payment requests, including past due invoices for his labor    
subcontract work, a separate advance payment of $300,000, a “CETS lump Sum Payment of 50%  
from our 8% fee from the contract value as agreed before,” and “[c]ontinuing a consultation 
monthly fee for the remaining 50%.”  In Marc h 2002, at the ACL’s Pres ident’s direction, ACL  
wired the EAF Agent amounts due on his past-due labor subcontract invoices, although it did not  
advance him monies for his separate funding requests outlined in his February e-mail. 
 
       14.     On April 4, 2002, after having received   payments from ACL on his past due    
invoices but not having received any additional monies, the EAF Agent e-mailed another payment 
request to ACL’s President.  This time, the EAF Agent told ACL’s President that he was planning 
to use the additional money “to motivate people and secure our business specially (sic) the CETS.”   
(Emphasis in original).  Making it clear that the agent was distinguishing between payments to him 
to “secure our business” and payments to him for his provision of subcontract labor, the EAF 
Agent added “[a]lso please bare [sic] in mind that the due invoices for domestic services reached 
US $272,120” (referring to subcontract labor invoices submitted to ACL for February and March 
2002).  Later that day, and without questioning th  e EAF Agent’s stated purpose for the funds,   
ACL’s President responded that ACL would “advance” monies to the agent, but would offset the  
payment against pending labor subcontractor invoices for services provided by the EAF Agent;        
ACL paid the EAF Agent four days later. 
  
       15.     On April 30, 2002, ACL received the official award of the CETS subcontract from 
the U.S. Air Force’s designated contractor Aeronautical Radio, Incorporated (“ARINC”), with an 
initial funding to ACL in the amoun t of $500,000.  Internal documen ts reflect that, around this 
time, ACL had estimated that th  e total potential contract revenues for the CETS program, if       
awarded, were approximately $8 million. 
        
       (ii)    Improper $100,000 “advance” payment to the EAF Agent 
 
       16.     On June 4, 2002, the EAF Agent again re quested monies separate and apart from 
the regular payments ACL was making to him on his labor subcontract invoices.  Noting the recent 
success regarding ACL’s receipt of sole source letters for the CETS project and a separate project  
for a surface treatment facility (known as the  “STF” project), the EAF Agent added “our people  
should be awarded before the next PMR,    6
                                           [sic] it is very important to keep the pressure to get all 
the allocated budget of the US$8M” (referring to the anticipated total value of the CETS contract).  
Apparently frustrated that ACL had offset its prior payments to him against the agent’s invoices for  
subcontract labor, the EAF Agent specifical ly requested that these new monies not  be deducted 
from his labor invoices; rather, the EAF Agent requested that ACL send “at least US$200,000         

                                                 
6 
       PMRs were two weeks of substantive meetings held every six months, one each in the United States and in  
Egypt every year, to discuss the progress, status and recommendations for pending or new projects related to the   
Egyptian F-16 Depot Project.  PMRs typically were attended             by representatives of the U.S. Air Force, the EAF, the  
U.S. Embassy and the Project’s principal contractors, including ACL, and pres ented the EAF with the opportunity to  
make its preferences for particular contracts, or particular  contractors, known in-person to the U.S. Air Force.  The  
next PMR was scheduled to take place in Sacramento, California in July 2002.  

                                                 6
  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

before the next PMR to fulfil [sic]  the present commitment . . . .  This will help keep[] the pressure  
to get all the CETS budget as well as the [surface treatment facility project] which is [in] the final 
phase.”  ACL’s President responded in an e-mail by noting that ACL included $40,000 per month 
for the EAF Agent’s services un der the CETS contract which “w ill permit you to meet all your 
obligations.”   Since the initiation of the CETS   contract had been delayed, however, ACL’s 
President suggested that ACL could pay the EAF Agent an advance under the existing integration  
contract. 
 
       17.    Two days later on June 6, 2002, the EA F Agent again emailed ACL’s President,  
this time requesting approximately $200,000 in pa   st due labor subcontract invoices and an 
additional $100,000 advance payment; the EAF Agent added that “[t]his could help us fulfil [sic] 
the commitment . . . .”  ACL’s President responded by instructing the EAF Agent to send ACL a  
$100,000 invoice, and to type on the invoice, among other things, that “THIS INVOICE IS FOR 
ADVANCE PAYMENT OF RENTAL OF                     EQUIPMENT AND CONTRACTING OF 
MATERIAL AND SERVICES UNDER THE F-16 EAF DEPOT INTEGRATION CONTRACT”  
(capitalization in original).  There is no indication in the correspondence between ACL’s President  
and the EAF Agent, or elsewhere, that there    was any actual need for “rental equipment” or 
“advance” payments for other of the agent’s services given that  he billed for his labor services in 
the ordinary course of business.     
 
       18.    On June 10, 2002, bypassing typical pr  otocol that required the EAF Agent to 
submit his labor subcontract invoices first to AC L’s on-site project manager for his review and 
approval, the EAF Agent e-mailed an invoice directly to ACL’s     President using the language  
specified by ACL’s President.  That day, ACL’s President affixed his signature to the invoice and 
authorized the $100,000 advance payment to the agent.  A UIC corporate official located at AAI’s  
headquarters’ in Maryland subsequently approved this payment without inquiring into the purpose 
or justification for the payment.  Relying on the invoice drafted at the ACL President’s direction, 
ACL then inaccurately recorded the $100,000 adva nce on its books as a bona fide “material”    
expense of the Egyptian F-16 Depot Project; instead, the $100,000 advance was paid to the EAF 
Agent based on a concocted invoice, and for reasons that were neither transparent nor based on the 
provision of any identifiable legitimate services. 
 
       (iii)    Improper $50,000 “marketing” payment to the EAF Agent          
 
       19.    In the Fall of 2002, the EAF Agent      continued to press ACL’s President for    
additional payments that had no relation to his labor subcontract services, suggesting in an e-mail  
that the new monies were needed to meet “comm itments” and to “keep the momentum.”  This       
language was consistent with that in prior e-mails, which had suggested that the EAF Agent would 
use such monies to influence officials who c  ould recommend the award of business to ACL.    
ACL’s President agreed to provide the agent with additional funds – this time through a purported  
“marketing contract.”  By using this vehicle to provide the EAF Agent with funds, ACL’s 
President caused ACL to pay the EAF Agent from  ACL’s funds outside those associated with the 
Egyptian F-16 Depot Project.  In December 2002,  the EAF Agent sent an invoice for $50,000 to 
ACL for “[m]arketing service for the period from July 02 – December 02,” and ACL’s President, 
without further inquiry as to the nature of the services provided, authorized payment of the invoice.   

                                              7
  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

ACL neither created nor executed any new marketing agreement with the EAF Agent that would 
cover this $50,000 payment.       
 
       20.    Between the fall of 2002 and 2004, ACL was awarded an additional five CETS 
funding contracts (or “modifications”) worth a total of $4.7 million.  Combined with ACL’s initial  
funding for the contract received in late Ap   ril 2002, ACL received total gross revenue of     
approximately $5.3 million, and net profits of $267,571, for its work on the CETS contract.   
 
D. Fraudulent “Repayment” of $100,000 Advance            
        
       21.     In January 2004, ACL’s President traveled to Egypt to visit the site of the Egyptian 
F-16 Depot Project.  During this  trip, ACL’s President attended a meeting with the EAF Agent, 
ACL’s Vice President and the     company’s on-site project manager at the project manager’s      
apartment in Cairo.  During this meeting, ACL’s  President indicated that ACL would forgive the  
$100,000 debt the EAF Agent owed the company as a result of the  advance payment made to the  
Agent in June 2002.   Rather th an forgive the debt in a direct   and transparent manner, ACL’s 
President approved a plan for the agent to submit false invoices to ACL to make it appear that the 
agent had repaid the $100,000 advance.  The sc heme ACL’s President approved would have the  
agent “repay” the $100,000 advance in ten equal installments by putting a $10,000 credit on the  
EAF Agent’s labor subcontract invoices for a ten month period.  To offset any real repayment of  
the debt, ACL’s President also approved the EAF Agent’s expenses to be inflated on each of the  
ten invoices at least by the amount of the $10,000 credit. 
        
       22.    In March 2004, the scheme  was put into effect.  At th at time, ACL first received 
subcontract labor invoices from the EAF Agent  covering the January 2004 service period, which 
reflected a $10,000 credit for “Advance pay back.”  The same January 2004 invoice showed that  
the agent’s aggregate cost for his subcontract labor had increased by slightly more than $10,000 as  
compared to his aggregate labor cost for the sa me work for December 2003.  The EAF Agent’s  
increase in labor costs, as shown by the invoices, was directly attributable to a categorical increase 
in the monthly salary ra tes for each type of labor provided to  the Egyptian F-16 Depot Project 
(aggregating to slightly more than $10,000).  For the next nine months, through the October 2004 
service period, the EAF Agent’s invoices reflected the monthly $10,000 credit deducted from his  
total costs, until the debt was “repaid.”  For seven of those nine months, until September 2004, the  
EAF Agent’s invoices also reflected the inflated  labor rates.  In September 2004, in response to a  
new initiative by the U.S. Air Force to contain ACL’s costs on the project, ACL required the EAF 
Agent’s rates to be reduced to approximately their 2003 levels.      
        
       E.     Internal Controls Violations  
        
       23.    During the relevant period, UIC lacked in  ternal controls sufficient to detect or   
prevent improper payments such as those made by ACL to the EAF Agent.  In fact, throughout the  
duration of the Egyptian F-16 Depot Project,     ACL’s President was able  to authorize large 
payments to the EAF Ag ent, including the improper $100,000 advance payment to      the agent in  
June 2002 and the $50,000 “marketing services” payment later that year, without meaningful       
substantiation or supporting documents.  In  fact, from 1997 through 2002, ACL paid the EAF 

                                               8
  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

Agent in total approximately $564,000 for “consulting” or “marketing” services without           
meaningful records detailing the services being provided.   
 
       24.    ACL’s President was able  to approve payments to   the EAF Agent as early as   
September 1997 in the absence of a written contract  with the agent, which ACL’s President first  
executed with the agent in March 1998, and while      maintaining no written record of having 
conducted any due diligence.  Though UIC instituted policies in late 1999 requiring any employee  
wishing to engage the services of a foreign agen t to submit due diligence  forms for the agent to 
corporate counsel prior to retaining such agent, ACL did not submit such forms until 2002; even  
then, the due diligence  forms were largely completed by the EAF Agent himsel  f.  In addition, 
though UIC’s regulatory compliance policy in place as early as 1997 required consulting contracts  
to include certain representations, including, but not limited to, that (a) the consultant was aware of  
the FCPA; (b) that UIC’s auditors and accountants  would be granted access to the consultant’s 
books and records; and (c) that the consultant   submit a signed statement of continuing FCPA 
compliance prior to each commission or other compensation payment to the consultants, it was not  
until 2003 that the EAF Agent operated under an agreement with ACL that contained any of these 
representations and, even then, the provision requiring open access to the consultant’s books and 
records still was not included. 
 
       25.    UIC’s corporate legal department in 1999 approved ACL’s retention of the EAF 
Agent.  Such approval was given even though  the new agreement with the EAF Agent did not   
contain FCPA provisions required by corporate policy.  Moreover, the legal department approved 
the agent despite learning that ACL had already been using the EAF Agent without prior approval 
and that the EAF Agent’s existing agency agreem ent did not conform to  UIC’s existing policies  
prohibiting contingent arrangements on government contracts.   
  
                                        Legal Analysis  
 
       26.    As described above, between late 2001   and 2002, ACL’s President authorized   
multiple illicit payments to the EAF Agent in connection with ACL’s efforts to receive new 
business related to the CETS project of the Egyptian F-16 Depot Project.  In light of: (i) the EAF’s 
Agent’s multiple e-mails to ACL’s President dur  ing the relevant period, in which the agent 
requested monies from ACL while  strongly indicating that such monies would be used, in whole or 
in part, to pay military officials who could influence the award of business to ACL; (ii) the ACL 
President’s authorization of payments to the EAF Agent in the face of such requests; (iii) the ACL 
President’s authorization of the creation of fraudulent invoices to conceal that, at his direction, the  
June 2002 $100,000 advance to the agent had b      een forgiven; and (iv) the ACL President’s    
knowledge that, during the releva nt period, ACL was seeking the  award of the CETS business,  
ACL’s President knew, or consciously disregarded the high probability, that the EAF Agent would 
offer, provide or promise the payments he had authorized (or a portion thereof) to EAF officials for  
the purpose of influencing such officials to obtain or retain business for UIC through ACL.  As a 
result, ACL was awarded the CETS contract and received ill gotten net profits associated with the 
CETS contract of $267,571.      
        
       27.    During the relevant period, ACL was an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of UIC 
based in California.  ACL’s President authorized and directed multiple illicit payments to the EAF  

                                               9
  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

Agent to obtain or retain business for UIC.  ACL’s President  was ACL’s highest ranking officer  
and had a direct reporting line to the CEO of UI C (who also acted as th e CEO of UIC’s direct,  
wholly owned subsidiary and ACL’s parent corporation, AAI Corporation).  UIC, in its Forms 10-
K and annual reports, routinely listed ACL’s       President as a member of UIC’s “senior 
management.”  Additionally, as discussed above, UIC’s corporate legal department approved the  
retention of the EAF Agent despite  a lack of documented due d iligence and despite an agency 
agreement that violated corporate policy.   Mo  reover, a UIC corporate official approved the    
$100,000 advance payment to the EAF Agent in June 2002. 
        
       28.    As a result of the conduct describe  d above, UIC violated Section 30A of the    
Exchange Act, which prohibits any issuer with a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 
12 of the Exchange Act, in order to obtain or retain business, from  giving, or authorizing the giving 
of, anything of value to any foreign official for purposes of influencing the official or inducing the  
official to act in violation of his or her lawful duties, or to secure any improper advantage; or to 
induce a foreign official to use his influence wi th a foreign government or foreign governmental 
instrumentality to influence any act or decision of such government or instrumentality. 
        
       29.    As a result of the conduct described above, UIC violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the  
Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to make and keep books, records, and accounts,  
which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their transactions and disposition of their  
assets. 
        
       30.    As a result of the conduct described above, UIC violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the  
Exchange Act, which requires all reporting companies to devise and maintain a system of internal  
accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable  assurances that transactions are recorded in 
accordance with management’s gene ral or specific authorization;  transactions are recorded as 
necessary to permit preparation of financial stat  ements in conformity w ith generally accepted  
accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such statements, and to maintain        
accountability for assets; access to assets is perm  itted only in accordance with management’s 
general or specific authorization; and the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the 
existing assets at reasonable intervals and a  ppropriate action is taken with respect to any 
differences. 
        
                                    UIC’s Remedial Efforts  
 
       In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts promptly 
undertaken by Respondent and cooperation afforded the Commission staff.    
                                                 
                                               IV. 
 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission  deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions   
agreed to in Respondent UIC’s offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby  ORDERED that, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act:  
 

                                               10
  
---------------------Page 11---------------------

        A.      Respondent UIC cease and desist from committing or  causing any violations and 
any future violations of Sections 30A, 13(b)(2)(A) and 13                                         (b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act.    
 
                    B. IT IS FURTHERED ORDERED that Respondent shall, within 10 days of the entry 
of this Order, pay disgorgement of $267,571. 00 and prejudgment interest of $70,108.42 to the   
United States Treasury.  If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 
SEC Rule of Practice 600.  Such payment shall be: (A) made by United States postal money order,  
certified check, bank cashier's check or bank money order; (B) made payable to the Securities and 
Exchange Commission; (C) hand-delivered or mailed to the Office of Financial Management, 
Securities and Exchange Commission, Operations Center, 6432 General Green Way, Stop 0-3,  
Alexandria, VA 22312; and (D)   submitted under cover letter that  identifies United Industrial   
Corporation as a Respondent in these proceedings, the file number of these proceedings, a copy of  
which cover letter and money order or check shall be sent to Charles E. Cain, Division of 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Comm ission, 100 F St., N.E., Wa shington, D.C. 20549-
5553. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                            M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                      

                                                     11
  
