---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                          Before the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 65030 / August 4, 2011 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3310 / August 4, 2011            
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14500  
 
                                                   
In the Matter of                                  
                                                  ORDER INSTITUTING   
       KARLHEINZ REDEKOPP,             ADMINISTRATIVE  PROCEEDINGS  
       CGA,                                       PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE            
                                                  COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE
Respondent.                                      
                                                                              
                                          
                                          
                                           
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
                                               I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
Karlheinz Redekopp, CGA (“Respondent” or “Redekopp”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the 
                               1
Commission’s Rules of Practice.  
                                                 
                                              II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by order, . . . 
suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has been by name . . . permanently 
enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the 
Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of 
the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                               III. 
                                                 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
       1.      Redekopp, age 40, is the former Chief Financial Officer of International 
Commercial Television, Inc. (“ICTV”), having served in that capacity from approximately March 
2006 to August 2008, when he tendered his resignation.  Redekopp holds an active Certified 
General Accountant designation issued in 1998 in British Columbia, Canada.  Redekopp is a 
resident of Vancouver, Canada. 
 
       2.      ICTV was, at all relevant times, a Nevada corporation headquartered in Bainbridge 
Island, Washington.  Founded in 2001, the Company sells health and beauty products 
internationally via infomercials and through various televised shopping networks.  ICTV’s 
common stock is registered under Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Exchange Act”) and is quoted on the Pink Sheets under the symbol “ICTL.” 
 
       3.      On July 26, 2011, a final judgment was entered against Redekopp, permanently 
enjoining him from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, Sections 10(b) 
and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 13a-14 and 13b2-1 thereunder, and aiding and 
abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 
12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder, in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange 
Commission v. Karlheinz Redekopp, Civil Action Number 3:10-cv-05557, in the United States 
District Court for the Western District of Washington.  The final judgment also prohibits Redekopp 
from acting as an officer or director of a public company for a period of 5 years. 
 
       4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Redekopp engaged 
in a financial reporting fraud which caused ICTV to materially overstate revenue and net income in 
periodic reports filed with the Commission during a six-quarter period in 2007 and 2008.  The 
Complaint alleged that Redekopp engaged in a number of improper accounting practices that 
materially increased ICTV’s annual and quarterly revenue and net income in a departure from 
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.  These practices included, among other things, 
recognizing revenue on sales that did not exist, prematurely recognizing revenue on product sales 
through the Home Shopping Network, improperly recognizing revenue on sales made directly to 
consumers prior to expiration of a free trial period, failing to establish a return allowance, and 
failing to properly recognize returns on direct consumer sales.  During the relevant period, ICTV 
sold securities in a private placement, and the related subscriptions agreements, counter-signed by 

                                                 
 
                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
Redekopp on behalf of ICTV, included the materially false representation that “[a]ll of the accounts 
receivable and net receivables of the Company are valid and enforceable claims, are subject to no 
known set-off or counterclaim, and to the knowledge of the Company are fully collectible in the 
normal course of business.”   
 
                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Redekopp’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Redekopp is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
       B.      After three years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief 
Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
 
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
 
                      (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
 
                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 

                                                  
 
                                                3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 
 
       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his CGA designation is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable boards of 
accountancy.  However, if his CGA designation is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                    Secretary 
 

 
 
                                                 

                                                 
 
                                                4 
