---------------------Page 1---------------------

 

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                      Before the  
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No.  64498 / May 13, 2011 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  3283 / May 13, 2011 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No.  3-14386 
 
                                             
In the Matter of                            ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE -AND-
                                            DESIST PROCEEDINGS  PURSUANT TO 
      GSI GROUP , INC.,                     SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                            EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  , MAKING 
Respondent.                                 FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE -
                                            AND-DESIST ORDER   
 
                                                
                                           I. 
                                            
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against GSI Group, Inc. (“GSI” or 
“Respondent”). 
       
                                          II.  
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting 
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below. 
       

 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 

                                               III.  
                                                  
                                                                                      1
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
        
                                           Summary 
                                                  
       1.     From at least 2004 through at least June 2008 (the “Relevant Period”), GSI 
improperly recognized revenue on certain transactions even though revenue recognition was 
prohibited pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).  The improper 
revenue recognition resulted in part from a deficient system of internal controls that included no 
clear procedures to determine what deliverables the company owed its customers and whether it 
had met those deliverables, along with a lack of understanding of the relevant accounting 
principles among key employees.  In addition, for at least two material transactions that occurred 
in 2007 and 2008, certain GSI employees engaged in misconduct by causing GSI to recognize 
revenue when they knew or should have known that the revenue should not have been 
recognized.  As a result, GSI overstated revenues by a total of approximately $1.9 million or 
0.7% in 2004, $3.5 million, or 1.4%, in 2005; $43.1 million, or 16.6%, in 2006; $15.0 million, or 
5.0%, in 2007 (including by $16.1 million, or 23.9%, for the fourth quarter of 2007); and by 
approximately $7.8 million (12.7%) and $3.3 million (5.6%) during the first and second quarter 
        2
of 2008.  
        
                                          Respondent 
                                                  
       2.     GSI, a New Brunswick, Canada corporation with its principal place of business in 
Bedford, Massachusetts, manufactures and sells laser systems and other technology products.  
GSI’s stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act 
and traded on the NASDAQ National Market System until July 31, 2006.  From July 31, 2006 
until April 15, 2010, GSI’s stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) 
of the Exchange Act and traded on the NASDAQ Global Market.  On April 15, 2010, GSI’s 
stock was delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market because it was delinquent in its 
Commission filings, deregistered from Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act, and reverted back to 
its designation under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act.  On November 20, 2009, GSI filed a 
voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in the U.S. 
Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware.  On May 27, 2010, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for 
the District of Delaware confirmed GSI’s plan for reorganization.  On July 23, 2010, GSI 
completed a rights offering and emerged from the Chapter 11 proceeding.  On December 4, 
2008, GSI announced that past financial statements filed with the Commission could no longer 
be relied upon due to errors discovered with GSI’s recognition of revenue for those periods.  On 
April 13, 2010, GSI filed restated annual and quarterly financial statements for the periods 
contained within the fiscal years 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, and 2008.  Effective February 14, 
2011, GSI re-registered its common stock pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and is 
currently listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market.   

                                                 
1
    The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other 
person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
 
2
    Percentages are calculated based on restated revenues  less discontinued operations. 

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 

 
                                             Facts 
 
Background 
 
       3.     During the Relevant Period, GSI’s Systems Division manufactured production 
systems that it sold to both domestic and international customers.  GSI’s production systems 
generally had both hardware (including lasers) and software components (including, in certain 
instances, customized, vendor specific, factory automation software) and required on-site 
installation by GSI personnel. 
        
       4.     From at least 2004 to mid-2007, the division controller for the Systems Division 
made the determination when to recognize revenue from Systems Division sales.   In mid-2007, 
pursuant to a reorganization of GSI’s finance department (the “Finance Department”), GSI’s 
corporate controller, assisted by an assistant corporate controller, took over the revenue 
recognition determination for the Systems Division.   
        
       5.     During the Relevant Period, Systems Division sales staff documented the basic 
terms of a transaction in a Sales Order Approval Form (“Sales Order Form”) which, along with 
other documents associated with the transaction, were to be collected by the Systems Division’s 
sales order administration personnel.  Before booking an order, the documents were to be 
reviewed and, depending on the size of the order, approved by varying levels of sales, finance 
and management staff.  Transactions generally were automatically recognized as revenue upon 
shipment.  Prior to the close of the quarter, the Finance Department reviewed the documents 
related to each transaction and determined whether to recognize or defer any revenue.  
        
Internal Control Deficiencies 
        
       6.     During the Relevant Period, GSI had numerous deficiencies throughout its system 
of internal controls that were attributable, in part, to its failure to understand and assess the risks 
in the control environment and to design and execute monitoring procedures that evaluated the 
controls over those risks.  Among other things, Systems Division personnel did not communicate 
well with Finance Department employees, a problem that worsened after the mid-2007 
reorganization.  Accordingly, Finance Department employees often had difficulty getting 
information from Systems Division employees. 
        
       7.     The structure of the revenue recognition process did not ensure proper 
communication of transaction terms to the Finance Department.  For example, sales 
representatives agreed to provide additional items to customers after the company received a 
purchase order, or offered customers other incentives, but frequently failed to properly document 
or communicate those agreements to the Finance Department.  Because the Systems Division did 
not have any clear process to ensure that any concessions, upgrades, or other terms agreed to in 
the period between booking and recognizing revenue from a transaction were included with the 
transaction documents, the Finance Department was often unaware of the actual transaction 
terms.  Both the additional items and the incentives frequently impacted the timing of revenue 

                                               3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 

recognition because the Finance Department often relied on incomplete information when 
making the revenue recognition decisions.   
        
       8.      In addition, key sales and Finance Department employees did not sufficiently 
understand the relevant accounting rules applicable to the multi-element arrangements.  The 
corporate controller did not apply those accounting rules correctly, and he failed to apply proper 
oversight over other employees involved in revenue recognition decisions. 
                
The Korean Transaction 
        
       9.      During November 2007, a Korean customer agreed to purchase from GSI ten 
systems for nearly $1 million per system.  Each system was equipped with a laser previously 
sold by GSI.  GSI agreed to upgrade these systems by replacing the original lasers with a laser 
                                                                                        3
that had not yet been developed (the “Undeveloped Laser”) when it became available.         As a 
final condition, the customer demanded that GSI upgrade five systems that the customer had 
previously purchased with Undeveloped Las     ers once they became available.    
        
       10.    In November 2007, one of GSI’s product line managers (the “PLM”) sent a letter 
to the Korean customer confirming GSI’s obligation to upgrade the five systems with 
Undeveloped Lasers.  The PLM did not copy anyone on the letter, and neither the letter nor the 
terms therein were provided to the Finance Department.  The PLM completed the sales order 
approval form for the transaction representing, among other things, that GSI had not made any 
“promises or guarantees for future deliverables (systems improvements, software upgrades, 
etc).”  The PLM also signed a quarterly certification for the Finance Department stating that he 
was unaware of any side transactions or contingencies.  The PLM knew or should have known 
that this certification (and the representations therein) would be used by GSI in preparing its 
financial statements and would be provided to GSI’s independent auditor in connection with the 
quarterly reviews of GSI’s financial statements. 
        
       11.    In December 2007, the PLM, members of the Finance Department staff, and the 
the general manager of the Systems Division (the “Systems GM”) met to discuss whether they 
could establish vendor specific objective evidence of value or fair value for the Undeveloped 
Lasers and thus recognize revenue from the transaction.  During these discussions, they 
concluded that GSI could establish fair value for the Undeveloped Laser if they could find a 
substantially similar laser that GSI had previously sold.  Shortly thereafter, the PLM and others 
identified a laser (the “Identified Laser”) as being substantially similar to the Undeveloped Laser. 
        
       12.    In fact, the Identified Laser was not substantially similar to the Undeveloped 
Laser for the purposes of recognizing revenue.  Among other things, the Undeveloped Laser was 
a unique, undeveloped product that had significantly different future application potential.  In 
addition, on several occasions the PLM had communicated to the Finance Department and others 
that the Undeveloped Lasers were worth substantially more than the Identified Laser.   

                                                 
3
   During this period, GSI had two undeveloped  lasers – a Multiple Pulse Infrared Laser and a Multiple Pulse 
Green Laser – that were to be upgraded in the production systems ordered by the Korean customer during 2007 and 
2008.  Neither of the lasers were substantially similar to the original lasers in the production system and, for the 
purposes of this Order, will be referred to collectively as the Undeveloped Laser(s).  

                                                 4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 

        
       13.    On December 20, 2007, the corporate controller emailed the PLM a draft of a 
memo (the “Fair Value Memo”) concluding that the Undeveloped Laser and the Identified Laser 
were substantially similar, which he asked the PLM to finalize and sign.  The PLM, however, 
initially declined to sign the memo on the grounds that the lasers were different.  The corporate 
controller then called the Systems GM and told him that if the PLM did not sign the memo, the 
company would not recognize revenue from the sale.  The Systems GM indicated that he would 
talk to the PLM and, that same evening, the PLM emailed the corporate controller the signed Fair 
Value Memo.  The PLM knew or should have known that this Fair Value Memo (and the 
representations therein) would be used by GSI in preparing its financial statements and would be 
provided to GSI’s independent auditor in connection with the quarterly reviews of GSI’s 
financial statements.   
        
       14.    In the first and second quarters of 2008, the Korean customer ordered eight 
additional systems and corresponding upgrades for Undeveloped Lasers.  The PLM signed 
another memo (to which the Fair Value Memo was attached) representing that the Undeveloped 
Laser to be used in these systems was substantially similar to the Identified Laser when in fact 
the lasers were not substantially similar.  As a result, the Finance Department again used the Fair 
Value Memo to improperly recognize revenue for the systems. 
        
       15.    During the first and second quarter of 2008, GSI recorded in its books and records 
and reported in its financial statements filed with the Commission over $8.9 million and $7.1 
million in revenue, respectively, from the transactions with the Korean customer.  However, GSI 
should not have recognized any revenue from these transactions during these periods because 
GSI had not delivered the Undeveloped Lasers, nor had it properly established fair value for the 
Undeveloped Laser in accordance with GAAP. 
 
The Taiwanese Transaction 
 
       16.     In or around January 2007, the PLM began negotiating a sale of six systems to a 
Taiwanese customer.  The initial quotation specifically referenced a Tool Automation 
Specifications (“TAS”) Agreement that related to the customer specifications or factory 
automation software that GSI would be obligated to provide.   
 
       17.    During this same time, the primary engineer responsible for creating the factory 
automation software informed the PLM that implementing all the TAS specifications would be 
“a huge task,” requiring over an additional 2000 hours of labor, would cost between $450,000 to 
$600,000, and could “not possibly be accomplished in the required time frame.”   
 
       18.    In March 2007, the Taiwanese customer ordered the six systems and specifically 
                                                                
referenced compliance with the TAS as part of the arrangement. The PLM never informed the 
Finance Department that, as part of the transaction, the customer required customized software 
that would not be completed until several months after the systems had been installed and were 
operational.  GSI booked the order and, between May and October 2007, shipped the six 
systems.   
 

                                               5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 

       19.    In late September 2007, the GSI’s Finance Department told the PLM and other 
Systems Division personnel that GSI could not agree to any upgrades, contingencies, or future 
deliverables if it wished to recognize the revenue from the transaction.  The PLM responded with 
an email specifically stating that “there are NO upgrades or contingencies,” even though he knew 
that GSI had agreed to provide the customer with unique, customized software.   The PLM also 
signed a quarterly certification stating that he was unaware of any contingencies or side 
agreements.  When the customer accepted the first system during the fourth quarter of 2007, GSI 
recognized nearly $5 million in revenue from the six systems that had shipped, even though GSI 
still owed the customer the customized software.   Because GSI had not delivered the customized 
software, and because it did not have fair value for the software, this revenue should not have 
been recognized at that time.  The PLM knew or should have known that this certification (and 
the representations therein) would be used by GSI in preparing its financial statements and would 
be provided to GSI’s independent auditor in connection with the quarterly reviews of GSI’s 
financial statements.   
 
       20.    On March 20, 2008 GSI’s corporate controller emailed the PLM and others 
asking whether there existed a factory automation issue with respect to the Taiwanese customer.  
In response, the PLM told the corporate controller that GSI owed the customer “Phase II” factory 
automation, which GSI hoped to complete by the second quarter of 2008.  The PLM provided the 
corporate controller with a copy of the TAS, which he stated contained the Phase II factory 
automation specifications. 
        
       21.    In or around March 2008, the assistant corporate controller informed the corporate 
controller that the failure to provide factory automation may impact the revenue that GSI had 
previously recognized, which could result in a restatement.  On April 3, 2008, the corporate 
controller emailed the assistant corporate controller, stating: “Please don’t dig into these unless it 
blows up down the road.  Let’s work on getting things right going forward.”  On April 6, 2008, 
the corporate controller again emailed the assistant corporate controller:  “When we go to the 
acceptance method this issue goes away.  Let’s dig into that once we get the quarter close behind 
us.”  The corporate controller did not properly investigate the matter and did not disclose the 
potential existence of undelivered factory automation software to the external auditors. 
        
       22.    During the fourth quarter of 2007, GSI recorded in its books and records and 
reported in its financial statements filed with the Commission nearly $5 million in revenue from 
sales to the Taiwanese customer.   However, GSI should not have recognized any revenue from 
this transaction during this period because GSI had not delivered the customized, factory 
automation software required under the customer agreement.   
 
Impact on Financial Statements 
        
       23.    As a result of the conduct described above, GSI overstated revenues by 
approximately $1.9 million (or 0.7%) in 2004, $3.5 million (1.4%) in 2005; $43.1 million 
(16.6%) in 2006; $15.0 million (5.0%) in 2007 (including by $16.1 million (23.9%) for the 
fourth quarter of 2007); and by approximately $7.8 million (12.7%) and $3.3 million (5.6%) 
                                                         4
during the first and second quarter of 2008, respectively.    
                                                  
4
    Percentages are calculated based on restated revenues less discontinued operations. 

                                                6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 

        
       24.    The misleading financial information that resulted from the improper recognition 
of revenue from the Korean and Taiwanese transactions alone was material because it (1) 
overstated revenues by 7.1% in the fourth quarter of 2007, by 1.6% for fiscal year 2007, by 
14.7% in the first quarter of 2008 and by 12.1% in the second quarter of 2008; and (2) overstated 
revenues for GSI’s Systems Division by 21.5% in the fourth quarter of 2007, by 4.3% during 
fiscal year 2007, by 39.3% in the first quarter of 2008, and by 48.0% in the second quarter of 
     5
2008.  
        
       25.    As a result of the conduct described above, GSI’s Form 10-K for the company’s 
fiscal years 2004 through 2007, the Forms 10-Q for every quarter therein, as well as the Forms 
10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2008 and June 30, 2008, contained false statements 
concerning GSI’s financial results.  For many of the quarterly periods described above, GSI 
issued press releases, subsequently filed with the Commission on Forms 8-K, containing the 
false and misleading financial information.     
        
                                            Violations 
        
       26.    As a result of the conduct described above, GSI violated Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-11, 13a-13 and 12b-20 thereunder, which require every 
issuer of a security registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act file with the 
Commission information, documents, and annual and quarterly reports as the Commission may 
require, and mandate that periodic reports contain such further material information as may be 
necessary to make the required statements not misleading.  
        
       27.    As a result of the conduct described above, GSI violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of 
the Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to make and keep books, records, and 
accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their transactions and 
disposition of their assets.  
        
       28.    As a result of the conduct described above, GSI violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of 
the Exchange Act, which requires all reporting companies to devise and maintain a system of 
internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions are 
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally 
accepted accounting principles. 
 
                                    Remedial Efforts by GSI 
        
       29.    In determining to accept GSI’s Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts 
promptly undertaken by Respondent and cooperation afforded the Commission staff. 
        

                                                 
5
    GSI also overstated pre-tax income by $1.4 million (6.4%) for fiscal year 2007, $3.6 million (5,206.0%) for the 
first quarter of 2008, and $2.9 million (1,443.1%) for the second quarter of 2008 as a result of the improper revenue 
recognition for the Korean and Taiwanese transactions. 

                                                 7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 

                                              IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent GSI’s Offer.  
        
       Accordingly, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, it is hereby ORDERED that 
Respondent GSI cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future 
violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-
20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder. 
        
        
       By the Commission.  
 
 
 
                                                   Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                   Secretary  
 

                                               8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

 

                                         Service List 
 
       Rule 141 of the Commission's Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or another 
duly authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order Instituting Cease-and-
Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making 
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order 
("Order"), on the Respondent and its legal agent. 
 
       The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to 
notice: 
 
Honorable Brenda P. Murray                   
Chief Administrative Law Judge               
Securities and Exchange Commission           
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-2557                    
 
Kevin M. Kelcourse, Esq.                     
Boston Regional Office               
Securities and Exchange Commission           
                 rd
33 Arch Street, 23  Floor                    
Boston, MA  02110                                                  
                                             
GSI Group, Inc.                      
c/o Caz Hashemi, Esq.                
Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati PC 
650 Page Mill Road 
Palo Alto, CA 94304 
                       
Caz Hashemi, Esq.             
Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati PC 
650 Page Mill Road 
Palo Alto, CA 94304 
                                        
 

                                               9 
