---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                 STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                           the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  62899 / September 13, 2010 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3185 / September 13, 2010 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-14044 
                                                   ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                   ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-
In the Matter of                             AND-DESIST PROC              EEDINGS PURSUANT 
                                                    TO SECTIONS 4C AND 21C OF THE 
KMJ CORBIN & COMPANY, LLP                           SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
KENDALL G. MERKLEY, CPA, and                        AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
ANTHONY J. PRICE, CPA                               COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                                    MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
Respondents.                                        REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-
                                                    AND-DESIST ORDER  
        
                                                    
 
                                               I.  
        
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against KMJ Corbin 
& Company, LLP (“KMJ”); Kendall G. Merkley, CPA (“Merkley”); and Anthony J. Price, CPA 
(“Price”) (“Respondents”) pursuant to Sections 4C1
                                                  and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of  
1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.2 
                                                                                    
                                                    

                                                        
       1 
         Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:                            
       The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the privilege                       
of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way,  if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the   
requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be   lacking in character or integrity, or to have engaged in  
unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have   willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the 
violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.    
       2 
         Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
       The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before  
it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct.                                      
                                                 1 

---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               II.
  
        
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over Respondents and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting 
Public Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making 
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth 
below. 
        
                                              III.  
        
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds 3
                                                                                  that: 
        
       A. SUMMARY     
 
       1.      This matter involves improper professional conduct by KMJ Corbin & Company, 
LLP, Kendall G. Merkley, and Anthony J. Price in connection with audits and reviews of the  
financial statements of Home Solutions of America, Inc. (“HSOA”) from  December 31, 2004 
through the second quarter of 2007 (“the Engagements”).  The Respondents did not conduct the  
Engagements in accordance with Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”)         
Standards, and HSOA’s financial statements did not present fairly, in all material respects, 
HSOA’s financial position, operating results, and cash flows in conformity with generally accepted  
accounting principles (“GAAP”).  By causing KMJ to issue false and misleading audit reports and 
failing to comply with PCAOB Standards and Rules, Merkley was a cause of HSOA’s violations 
of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder and 
caused KMJ’s violation of Regulation S-X Rule 2-02(b)(1).  
 
       2.      On November 30, 2009, the Commission filed a complaint against HSOA and 
seven individuals alleging, in part, that HSOA’s  financial statements for the year ended December 
31, 2004 through the quarter ended June 30, 2007 were materially misstated because HSOA: 
(i) improperly deferred expenses  related to year-end bonuses; (ii) improperly recorded fictitious 
and premature revenue; and (iii) failed to disclose material transactions with related parties.4 
                                                                                            
HSOA misstated its 2004, 2005, and 2006 net income by 10%, 7%, and 61%, respectively, and its 
first and second quarter 2007 net income by 308% and 106%, respectively.  In its complaint, the  
                                                        

       3 
          The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent s' Offers of Settlement and are not binding on any  
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
       4 
              SEC v. Home Solutions of America, Inc., et al  , Civil No. 3:09-cv-02269-N (N.D.Tx.).   
                                                   2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

Commission alleges that the Chairman of the Board and CEO and the CFO made or caused to be 
made materially false statements to KMJ relating to bonuses and certain revenue transactions.  
Additionally, the Commission alleges that a vice president and a director, who was assisted by the 
vice president and director’s business partner with respect to a 2006 transaction, made or caused to 
be made materially false statements to KMJ regarding the related party transactions discussed 
below.  In a settlement with the Commission, without admitting or  denying the allegations in the 
Commission’s complaint, HSOA consented to the entry of a permanent injunction from violating 
the antifraud and reporting provisions of the federal securities laws.  Additionally, on January 5, 
2010, the Commission entered an order revoking the registration of HSOA’s common stock.  5 
                                                                                           
        
       B.      RESPONDENTS 
        
       3.      KMJ Corbin & Company, LLP is an accounting firm registered with the PCAOB 
and with offices in Costa Mesa and San Diego, California.  As of July 2010, KMJ was engaged to 
audit 15 public company issuer clients.  From 2002 until it resigned on February 9, 2009, KMJ 
served as the independent auditor for HSOA. 
        
       4.      Kendall G. Merkley, CPA, age 49 and a resident  of Glendora, California, is 
licensed as a certified public accountant in the state of California.  Merkley served as KMJ’s 
managing partner from 2005 to 2008.  Merkley was the engagement partner on KMJ’s  
engagements to audit and review HSOA’s 2003 through 2006 financial statements and the 
concurring partner on KMJ’s 2002 engagement. 
        
       5.      Anthony J. Price, CPA, age 40 and a resident of  Huntington Beach, California, is  
licensed as a certified public accountant in the state of California.  Price served on KMJ’s HSOA 
engagement as the manager on the 2004 and 2005 audits  and 2005 and 2006 reviews.   
Additionally, Price assisted Merkley in supervising the 2006 audit after being promoted to partner 
in September 2006 and served as the engagement partner supervising KMJ’s reviews for the first 
and second quarters of 2007. 

       C.      RELEVANT ENTITY 
 
       6.      HSOA touted itself as a leading remediation and construction company, and 
claimed to have multimillion dollar contracts and robust financial results, in the aftermath of 
Hurricane Katrina and other weather-related disasters.  HSOA’s common stock was registered with  
the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and listed on the NASDAQ 
National Market, before being delisted on January 7, 2008, for failure to file timely periodic 
reports. 
 

                                                        

       5 
              See Release No. 34-61285, January 5, 2010     . 

                                                   3
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       D. FACTS 


       7.      While supervising and conducting KMJ’s audits and reviews of HSOA’s financial 
statements for 2004, 2005, 2006 and the periods ended March 31 and June 30, 2007, Merkley 
(except as to 2007) and Price failed to adhere to PCAOB Standards and Rules.  In summary, 
Merkley and Price failed to: (i) obtain sufficient competent evidential matter regarding bonuses, 
revenues, and cost of revenues with respect to KMJ’s 2004, 2005, and 2006 audit engagements; (ii)  
comply with PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 3, Audit Documentation; (iii) adequately plan the audit 
and properly supervise assistants in connection with the 2006 engagement; and (iv) conduct reviews  
of interim financial information in accordance with PCAOB Standards and Rules.  Additionally, 
Merkley caused KMJ to issue inaccurate audit reports in that he should have known that KMJ’s 
audit reports were false because they incorrectly represented that the audits were conducted in 
accordance with PCAOB standards and that HSOA’s financial statements were prepared in  
conformity with GAAP. 
        
       Failure to Obtain Sufficient Competent Evidential Matter  

       8.      An auditor is to obtain sufficient competent evidence to afford a reasonable basis 
for an opinion regarding the financial statements under audit (See PCAOB Standards and Related 
Rules, AU § 326.01).6
                       Although audit evidence includes representations from management, 
management’s representations are not a substitute for performing sufficient auditing procedures to 
afford a reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the financial statements under audit (See 
PCAOB Standards and Related Rules, AU § 333.02). 

       9.      The amount and kinds of required evidence depend on the circumstances and the  
auditor’s professional judgment, but evidence has to be “persuasive” though it need not be 
“convincing” (See PCAOB Standards and Related Rules             , AU § 326.22).  With respect to such 
judgment, an auditor must maintain an attitude of professional skepticism and assess the risk that 
the financial statements may contain a material misstatement due to fraud (See PCAOB Standards 
and Related Rules, AU § 316.13).  In developing his or her opinion, the auditor should consider 
relevant evidential matter regardless of whether it appears to corroborate or to contradict the 
assertions in the financial statements (See PCAOB Standards and Related Rules, AU § 326.25). 

              Bonuses  

       10.     Merkley and Price failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter regarding 
HSOA’s bonuses to support KMJ’s 2004, 2005, and 2006 audit opinions.  Merkley and Price 
accepted management’s representations that HSOA should report bonus expenses in the year paid, 
even though they were aware of evidence that they should have known contradicted management’s 

                                                        
       6 
              Citations to PCAOB Standards and Rules refer to standards and rules in effect at 
the time of the conduct discussed herein. 

                                                  4
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

assertions.  At other times, Merkley and Price failed to consider relevant evidential matter as to the 
periods in which bonus expenses should have been reflected. 

                      2004 Audit  

       11.     Merkley and Price did not discover that HSOA had not accrued a liability for year-
end bonuses until April 2005, approximately two weeks after KMJ issued its audit report on 
HSOA’s 2004 financial statements.  Merkley initially rejected management’s justification for 
expensing bonuses when paid and flagged his concerns about HSOA’s accounting in an e-mail sent  
to HSOA’s CFO, stating that the presumption is that the bonus, which is derived from and directly  
related to the 2004 results, was earned in 2004, and simply paid in 2005 after the 2004 results were  
finalized through the audit process.  After discussion with HSOA’s CFO and in a subsequent e-
mail to HSOA’s CFO and with a copy to Price, Merkley conveye    d that the only way KMJ would 
be satisfied with HSOA’s accounting treatment of bonuses was if HSOA were to represent that (i) 
HSOA’s CEO had discretion to pay an amount less than the bonus pool approved by the board, and 
(ii) that the bonuses were not fully vested, because recipients had agreed in writing to repay a  
prorated share of their bonuses if they left the company before the end of the calendar year in 
which the bonuses were paid.  After HSOA management revised its memorandum to include these 
points in support of expensing the 2004 EBITDA bonus in 2005, Merkley accepted management’s 
representations. 

       12.     HSOA’s accounting did not comply with GAAP because      HSOA did not record the  
bonuses in 2004, when HSOA incurred the liability. 7
                                                     As a result, HSOA overstated its 2004 net 
income by 10%.  Merkley should have known that the representations that HSOA management 
made to justify not accruing the  2004 EBITDA bonus in HSOA’s 2004 financial statements were 
untrue as of KMJ’s report date and, therefore,  could not support the conclusions KMJ reached 
during the 2004 audit.  Although Merkley and Price discussed it with executive management, 
neither Merkley nor Price corroborated management’s assertions, or disclosed the bonus issue to  
the non-management members of HSOA’s board of directors.  Similarly, neither Merkley nor Price  
updated the 2004 audit work papers to include or make any reference to the memorandum obtained 
from management. 

                      2005 Audit 

       13.     Less than three weeks after accepting management’s assertion that the 2004 
EBITDA bonus should be expensed in 2005, over the purported vestin   g period (i.e., from the date  
paid through the end of the calendar year in which paid), Merkley and Price took a contrary 
position regarding HSOA’s accounting for the 2004 EBITDA bonus during KMJ’s review of 
HSOA’s March 31, 2005 financial statements.  KMJ’s work papers document that it expected to 
                                                        
       7 
               See Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5, “Accounting for Contingencies” (“FAS 
5”), paragraph 8.  FAS 5 states, in part, a loss contingency shall be accrued by a charge to income if information 
exists prior to issuance of the financial statements that a liability has been incurred at the date of the financial  
statements and that the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.  
                                                   5
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

see, but did not see, a liability at March 31, 2005 for 2004 bonuses to be paid in April 2005.  As a 
result, KMJ proposed and HSOA recorded an adjustment to expense the entire 2004 EBITDA 
bonus in the quarter ended March 31, 2005.  KMJ’s work papers do not document the basis for the  
conclusion that it was appropriate to expense the 2004 EBITDA bonuses in  the first quarter 2005.  
Similarly, KMJ’s work papers do not document what facts supported expensing the 2004 EBITDA 
bonus in the first quarter 2005 that would not also support expensing the 2004 EBITDA in 2004.  
KMJ’s work papers also do not document why, as represented in the bonus memo, it was not 
appropriate to expense the 2004 EBITDA bonuses over the purported vesting period. 

       14.     In connection with KMJ’s 2005 audit engagement, Merkley and Price did not 
consider evidence that HSOA was inappropriately accounting for EBITDA bonuses.  After 
Merkley and Price learned that HSOA had not recorded a liability for approximately $1.7 million 
of bonuses approved by HSOA’s board of directors, Merkley sent HSOA’s CFO an e-mail stating 
his concern about not recording this bonus in 2005.  Despite Merkley’s concerns, HSOA did not 
correct its accounting for bonuses at year-end 2005.  Furthermore, neither Merkley nor Price 
proposed an audit adjustment to correct HSOA’s accounting, documented any justification for not 
accruing the 2005 EBITDA bonus, nor disclosed the issue to HSOA’s board of directors.  In 
accepting management’s accounting, Merkley and Price appear to have again relied upon the 
bonus memorandum provided to them in April 2005 without corroboration and without 
incorporating it into KMJ’s work paper files.  HSOA’s accounting for  year-end bonuses did not 
comply with GAAP and resulted in HSOA understating its first  quarter 2005 net income by 19% 
and overstating its year-end 2005 net income by 7%. 

                      2006 Audit 

       15.     At year-end 2006, Merkley and Price learned that HSOA had adopted a new bonus 
plan pursuant to which management earned cash bonuses under a tiered structure.8
                                                                                  Merkley and 
Price questioned HSOA’s management as to why HSOA’s bonus accrual was less than the amount 
that was apparently payable under the new bonus  structure.  Despite evidence that second-tier 
bonuses had been earned but not accrued, Merkley and Price accepted management’s oral   
representation, as documented in KMJ’s work papers, that the amount accrued “is more reflective 
of the amount that will be paid for 2006 performance” without  corroboration from members of 
HSOA’s board of directors other than HSOA’s Chairman or documentation of management’s 
estimate.9
           HSOA’s accounting for year-end bonuses did not comply with GAAP and resulted in 
HSOA understating its 2006 net income by 3%. 

                                                        

       8 
              Under the new bonus plan, HSOA awarded first tier cash bonuses if the Company exceeded an  
approved EBITDA target and second tier cash bonuses if the Company exceeded the first tier target by 20%.  HSOA 
accrued only amounts payable under the first tier even though it was obvious by December 2006 that the Company 
had also exceeded the second tier target.  
       9 
              In April 2007, HSOA paid bonuses equivalent to amounts that were due based upon the   
achievement of the objective criteria of the bonus plan, which was approximately double the amount management   
accrued as of year-end 2006.  
                                                   6
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

              Revenues and Costs of Revenues  

       16.     Merkley and Price also failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter that 
HSOA’s 2006 revenues and cost of revenues  were presented in conformity w ith GAAP. 

       17.     Because KMJ determined that HSOA’s internal controls were ineffective, Merkley 
and Price intended to base KMJ’s 2006 audit opinion principally on the results of substantive audit 
procedures.  As analytical review procedures alone are unlikely to provide sufficient competent 
evidential matter for accounts with significant risks of material misstatement (See PCAOB 
Standards and Related Rules, AU § 329.09), Merkley and Price planned to validate significant 
accounts, such as revenues and costs of revenues, by performing substantive tests of details, 
including examining supporting documents and recalculating amounts.  KMJ staff working under  
Merkley and Price’s supervision performed inadequate substantive tests to verify HSOA’s 2006 
revenues, particularly with respect to revenues reported using percentage-of-completion 
accounting. 

                      Limited Substantive Evidence Supporting Revenues based on Percentage-
                      of-Completion Accounting 

       18.     HSOA derived approximately 57% of its consolidated 2006 revenues from Fireline 
Restoration Services, Inc. (“Fireline”), its largest subsidiary, and Home Solutions Restoration 
(“HSR”), an internal reporting group comprised of Florida Environmental Remediation Services 
(“FERS”), Home Solutions Restoration of Louisiana (“HSRLA”), and Associated Contractors 
LLC (“Associated”).  Fireline and HSR recorded the majority of their respective revenues using 
percentage-of-completion accounting.  KMJ tested HSOA’s accounting by obtaining schedules 
detailing the contract amount, total estimated costs, costs incurred, and the percentage of the 
contract value earned based on the costs incurred. 

       19.     KMJ’s testing of HSOA’s  revenues recorded using percentage-of-completion 
accounting and associated costs was flawed in three major respects: (i) it did not utilize planned 
audit scopes, (ii) it performed only limited substantive testing on items selected for testing, and 
(iii) it did not test transactions completed prior to year-end. 

       20.     KMJ staff selected audit samples utilizing audit scopes in excess of the “tolerable 
misstatement” amount determined by KMJ and approved during KMJ’s initial planning work.  For 
example, individually significant items, based on KMJ’s calculation of tolerable misstatement for 
Fireline and Associated, were $280,000 and $152,250, respectively, but the KMJ staff selected, 
without explanation, items greater than $1 million and $2 million, respectively.  As a result of 
using higher audit scopes, fewer projects were subjected to substantive auditing procedures than 
planned. 

       21.     Moreover, in addition to subjecting fewer projects to substantive auditing 
procedures, KMJ insufficiently tested the projects it did select.  For example, at Fireline, KMJ 
concluded that it had obtained sufficient competent evidential matter by selecting for testing 14 
projects with a contract value in excess of $1 million and calculating that it had tested 89% of total 
                                                   7
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

contract values.10
                   Although Merkley and Price intended KMJ staff to test project values by 
examining underlying executed agreements, KMJ staff inappropriately included five projects in its  
calculation for which HSOA could not provide executed agreements to support the listed contract 
values.  These five contracts represented 19% of the total contract values.  Additionally, KMJ staff  
examined invoices to support only five items for five projects, which it selected on a haphazard 
basis.  In aggregate, KMJ substantively tested only $1.5 million of Fireline’s costs, approximately 
50% of which Fireline incurred prior to HSOA’s acquisition of Fireline, and therefore contributed 
little audit evidence to support HSOA’s 2006 revenues.  As a result of its procedures, KMJ 
substantively tested only $1.3 million (3.3%) of Fireline’s 2006 revenues of $39.3 million. 

       22.     Finally, KMJ did not substantively test projects HSOA completed between July 1, 
2006, the date HSOA acquired Fireline, and December 31, 2006.  Consequently, KMJ’s testing of 
substantial amounts of Fireline’s 2006 revenues was largely based on simple analytical 
comparisons and representations by management. 

                       Reliance on Management Representations Without Obtaining 
                       Corroborating Evidence   

       23.     During 2006, HSOA management materially misstated HSOA’s net income by 
recording fictitious and premature revenues from (i) a significant customer; (ii) targets of pending 
acquisitions (i.e., Fireline and Associated); and (iii) related parties.  Merkley and Price relied on 
representations of HSOA management but failed to obtain corroborating evidence or did not 
recognize multiple inconsistencies that should have alerted them to management’s 
misrepresentations, and to seek additional competent evidential matter on which to base KMJ’s 
2006 audit opinion. 

                       Fictitious Revenues from a Significant Customer  

       24.     In connection with KMJ’s first quarter 2006 review, Merkley and Price identified  
and inquired about a significant, unusual arrangement with HSOA’s largest customer, which 
purportedly allowed HSOA to unilaterally charge the customer up to $2 million per month for 
agreeing to have personnel on standby, regardless  of whether HSOA incurred any costs.  Merkley 
and Price also learned that HSOA modified an agreement defining the terms of future work by 
HSOA executed by the customer in April 2006 by having the customer initial, in May 2006, a 
provision allowing HSOA to invoice the customer for standby mobilization services retroactive to 
January 2006.  11
                  Merkley and Price reviewed a copy of the agreement modified in May 2006, 
                                                        
       10 
               KMJ calculated it had tested 89% of project contract values by dividing the sum of the contract                       
values for the 14 projects it selected by the total values for all listed projects.  KMJ’s calculation was flawed because  
the numerator included amounts it was unable to test and because the denominator excluded contracts completed 
during the year.  
       11 
               On May 10, 2006, HSOA faxed KMJ a copy of an agreement, executed by the customer on April    
7, 2006, that defined payment terms for the first $20 million of work performed by HSOA for the customer after     
April 1, 2006.   On the first page of this agreement,   HSOA management inserted a provision purportedly allowing   
                                                     8
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

reviewed journal entries recording $3 million of revenue based on the modification, and engaged in 
discussions with HSOA management.  As such, Merkley and Price should have known that the  
nature and business purpose of the purported arrangement was questionable, HSOA lacked 
contemporaneous documentation and HSOA recorded the related revenues outside of HSOA’s 
normal billing process.  Merkley and Price accepted HSOA’s recognition of $3 million of revenue 
on the condition that HSOA specifically disclose the revenue recorded under the agreements in its 
Form 10-Q, and with the understanding that the amounts would be subject to more stringent audit  
procedures by KMJ at year-end.  Additionally, KMJ required, at least in connection with the first 
and second quarter 2006 reviews, that management represent in writing that HSOA’s revenue 
recognition complied with GAAP and that related receivables were collectible.   

       25.     Although management did make these representations to KMJ, management did not 
state, and KMJ did not document, how HSOA’s accounting treatment complied with GAAP.  
Moreover, in subsequent quarters, neither Merkley nor Price raised any additional questions about 
the arrangement despite several inconsistent facts, including that: (i) HSOA did not have a 
purchase order or other documentation that evidenced why HSOA billed the customer for only 
50% of the amounts purportedly billable in the first quarter of 2006; (ii) HSOA ceased accruing 
revenue from purported standby mobilization services after the first quarter 2006; (iii) the 
customer, which had accounted for approximately  23% of HSOA’s revenues in 2005, awarded 
HSOA almost no new work after it terminated discussions to be acquired by HSOA in April 2006;  
and (iv) the customer made no payments against amounts invoiced    for purported standby 
mobilization services. 

       26.     At year-end 2006, Merkley and Price planned to rely upon the customer’s 
confirmation of the balance due to HSOA.  The confirmation request sent to the customer, 
however, did not ask the customer to confirm significant terms of the arrangement, such as the date 
the agreement was entered into, its payment terms, agreement as to the amount invoiced for the  
period ended March 31, 2006, and the reason why no amounts were invoiced for subsequent 
periods.  Moreover, the customer did not return the confirmation, and made no payments on the 
invoices in question.  Nevertheless, Merkley and Price accepted management’s representations 
based on the written agreement, which they knew had not been executed contemporaneously with 
the purported agreement to allow HSOA to invoice the customer for standby mobilization services, 
that HSOA’s reported revenues complied with  GAAP and that a significant portion of the 
receivable balance should be reserved as uncollectible due to the customer’s deteriorating 
economic conditions. 12 
                       

                                                                                                                                                                    

HSOA to invoice the customer up to $2 million per month beginning January 2006.  Merkley and Price subsequently              
saw copies of the agreement on which the customer had initialed and faxed back to HSOA on May 11, 2006.    
HSOA’s CEO, however, never disclosed to Merkley, Price or KMJ that the customer had initialed the provision  
based on an oral agreement that HSOA could not invoice the customer unless it first issued a purchase order for such  
services.  
       12 
              KMJ did not review any documentation of management’s analysis of the collectability of individual    
invoices or aggregate balances.  Similarly, KMJ did not request or review HSOA’s correspondence with the 
                                                    9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

                       Fictitious Revenues from Targets of Pending Acquisitions 

       27.     Merkley and Price also overlooked evidence that should have caused them to raise 
additional questions about revenue recognized by HSOA in advance of its acquisitions of Fireline  
and Associated in the second and third quarters of 2006, respectively. 

       28.     Immediately prior to its acquisition of Fireline as of July 1, 2006, HSOA 
recognized $8.4 million of revenue based on a purported transaction negotiated with the president 
of Fireline.  In connection with its review of HSOA’s financial information as of June 30, 2006, 
KMJ inquired about the agreement, but did not question the transaction’s abnormally high margin.  
After HSOA acquired Fireline, Merkley and Price failed to notice or ignored the fact that Fireline’s 
accounts payable and accrued liabilities at June 30 and September 30, 2006, in aggregate were less 
than the $8.4 million receivable on HSOA’s books and records and that Fireline’s accounts payable 
and accrued liabilities per its audited financial statements as of June 30, 2006 were less than $8.4 
million.  KMJ did not examine, and HSOA did not have, an executed contract for the project 
purportedly completed by HSOA prior to June 30, 2006.  KMJ also failed to consider facts 
indicating that HSOA continued to record costs supposedly associated with the project in the third 
and fourth quarters of 2006, even though HSOA recognized 100% of the revenue in the second 
quarter. 

       29.     Similarly, immediately prior to its acquisition of Associated as of October 1, 2006, 
HSOA recognized $4 million of revenue based on purported transactions with Associated.  In       
connection with its 2006 audit engagement, KMJ obtained contracts and examined invoices sent by 
HSOA covering periods immediately before the effective date of HSOA’s acquisition of  
Associated.  Merkley and Price overlooked several inconsistencies that should have alerted them to  
make additional inquires and require more competent evidence.  First, KMJ failed to notice that 
certain of the invoices were unlike HSOA’s typical invoices to Associated.  Although HSOA 
typically issued sequentially-numbered invoices by project, certain of the invoices examined by 
KMJ were identified with an “A” suffix rather than the next number in the invoice sequence (the 
“A Invoices”).  Each of the A Invoices included amounts billed or items other than time and 
materials, such as management fees, for which HSOA had not invoiced Associated in any other  
invoices.  Additionally, KMJ did not note that certain of the A Invoices invoiced Associated for 
time periods that overlapped time periods for  other invoices examined by KMJ for the same  
project, or note that the A Invoices billed labor at rates above the rates used on other invoices.  
                                                                                                                                                                    

customer soliciting payment of the standby mobilization receivable balance.  Price continued to rely upon                      
management’s representations regarding the standby mobilization agreement after the customer’s president told  
Price in December 2007 or January 2008 that it did not owe amounts for standby mobilization and that his oral 
agreement with HSOA’s CEO was that HSOA could not invoice for standby mobilization prior to being issued a 
purchase order for such services.  The customer’s president did not provide Price with any evidence to support the  
existence of the oral agreement with HSOA’s CEO, but acknowledged initialing in May 2006 the mobilization  
provision added to the agreement originally executed in April 2006.  It was not until 2009, when the staff showed  
Merkley and Price e-mails they had not previously seen  between HSOA’s CEO and the customer’s president that 
Merkley and Price concluded they could not rely upon management’s representations.  Promptly thereafter, Merkley   
and Price caused KMJ to resign as HSOA’s auditor.   

                                                     10
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

Furthermore, KMJ did not inquire or otherwise determine if these atypical invoices were reflected 
in Associated’s books and records.  

               Fictitious Revenues from Related Parties 

       30.     At year-end 2006, Fireline’s president executed a scheme to inflate Fireline’s 
receivables and related revenues by causing private companies that he controlled to enter into 
contracts with HSOA to perform construction work.  He then directed Fireline employees to create 
documents and make accounting entries that made  it appear that Fireline was performing on these 
related party contracts.13
                          As a result, HSOA inflated its reported revenue and receivables by 
$3.2 million and $6.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 and six months ended June 
30, 2007, respectively.  HSOA also did not disclose the existence of these transactions as required 
by Financial Accounting Standards No. 57, Related Party Disclosures                                           . 

       31.     Evidence exists that KMJ should have been aware of at least some of the related 
party transactions.  For instance, in connection with its 2006 audit work at Fireline, KMJ staff 
examined contracts for two of the four related party projects for which revenue was reported, 
apparently without recognizing that Fireline’s president executed the contracts on behalf of the  
customer or that the contracts had been backdated.  For one project, Fireline’s controller confirmed 
to Price that the customer was affiliated with Fireline and was working as an intermediary between 
Fireline and a third party customer.  As such, Price should have known that HSOA had not 
disclosed its related party transactions in accordance with GAAP. 

       Failure to Comply with PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 3  

       32.     PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 3 requires, in part, that “documentation must  
contain sufficient information to enable an experienced auditor, having no previous connection 
with the engagement: (a) to understand the nature, timing, extent, and results of the procedures 
performed, evidence obtained, and conclusions reached, and (b) to determine who performed the 
work and the date such work was completed as well as the person who reviewed the work and the 
date of such review”  (See Auditing Standard No. 3, paragraph 6). 

       33.     Merkley and Price did not ensure that KMJ’s 2005 reviews and audit were 
documented in accordance with PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 3 despite previously  
acknowledging to the PCAOB that its  2004 documentation was not adequate.     14
                                                                                 In fact, the 

                                                        
       13 
               In connection with the 2006 audit, Fireline’s president had his partner in some of the related party    
entities falsely confirmed to KMJ that HSOA had a $6 50,000 payable to one of the related parties.   
       14 
               Prior to issuing its audit opinion on the 2005 financial statements, KMJ acknowledged that its 
2004 audit documentation was not adequate in its response to the PCAOB’s draft inspection report on selected KMJ   
engagements, including HSOA.  See Part IV, Response of the Firm to Draft Inspection Report of Inspection of    
Corbin & Company, LLP issued by the PCAOB on April 6, 2006     
(http://pcaobus.org/Inspections/Reports/Documents/2006_Corbin_and_Company.pdf).  

                                                    11
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

majority of KMJ’s 2005 review and audit work papers bear no evidence of review and none of the 
work papers bear evidence of a partner level review.15 
                                                      

       Failure to Plan and Supervise Adequately the 2006 Audit      

       34.     An auditor is required to plan and perform the audit “to obtain reasonable assurance  
about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether caused by error 
or fraud” (See PCAOB Standards and Related Rules, AU § 110.02).  In planning, the auditor 
should assess the risk of material misstatement due to fraud or error, which includes consideration 
of “conditions that may require extension or modification of audit tests, such as the risk of material 
error or fraud or the existence of related party transactions”  (See PCAOB Standards and Related 
Rules, AU §§ 312.16 and 311.03).  Base  d upon the auditor’s risk assessment and other planning 
considerations, the auditor should prepare a written audit program setting forth “in reasonable 
detail the audit procedures that the auditor believes are necessary to accomplish the objectives of 
the audit” (See PCAOB Standards and Related Rules, AU § 311.05).  An auditor is also required to 
review work performed by assistants “to determine whether it was adequately performed and to 
evaluate whether the results are consistent with the conclusions to be presented in the auditor's  
report” (See PCAOB Standards and Related Rules       , AU § 311.13). 

       35.     Merkley and Price failed to adequately plan, or properly supervise assistants, in 
connection with the 2006 audit.   Merkley and Price allowed assistants to assess the risk of material 
misstatements and designate the extent of testing to address identified risks approximately two 
weeks after completing audit procedures for significant accounts, including revenues and cost of 
revenues.  Moreover, Merkley and Price did not ensure that assistants tailored standard audit 
programs to be responsive to identified risks and to be consistent with other planning conclusions.  
As such, the extent of testing KMJ actually performed did not correspond with the risks of material  
misstatement for all significant areas.  Nonetheless, Merkley and Price approved KMJ’s planning 
and audit documentation. 

       Failure to Conduct Reviews of Interim Financial Information in Accordance with         
       PCAOB Standards and Rules  

       36.     The objective of a review of interim financial information is to provide the 
accountant with a basis for communicating awareness of any material modifications that should be 
made to the interim financial information for it to conform with GAAP (               See PCAOB Standards 
and Related Rules, AU § 722.07). PCAOB Standards and Rules, AU § 722 establishes standards 
and provides guidance on the nature, timing, and extent of the procedures to be performed by an 
independent accountant when conducting a review of interim financial information (See PCAOB 
Standards and Related Rules, AU § 722.01).  A review of interim financial information consists 
principally of performing analytical procedures and making inquires of persons responsible for 
                                                        
       15 
               Contemporaneous time records indicate that Merkley and Price charged time to the HSOA 
engagement during the periods KMJ conducted its reviews and audit.  As such, it appears Merkley and Price         
participated in KMJ’s reviews and audit but failed to document work performed as required by PCAOB standards.                              

                                                   12
 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

accounting and financial matters, and other procedures that address significant accounting and 
disclosure matters relating to the interim financial information to be reported (                                       See PCAOB 
Standards and Related Rules, AU §§ 722.07 and 722.15).  “The accountant should apply analytical  
procedures to the interim financial information to identify and provide a basis for inquiry about the  
relationships and individual items that appear to be unusual and that may indicate a material 
misstatement” (See PCAOB Standards and Related Rules               , AU § 722.16).  In applying analytical 
procedures and making inquires, the accountant should consider plausible relationships between 
both financial and relevant nonfinancial information, inquire about unusual or complex situations, 
significant transactions occurring or recognized in the last several days of the interim period, and 
the status of uncorrected misstatements identified during the previous audit and interim review 
(See PCAOB Standards and Related Rules, AU §§ 722.16 and 722.18).  Additionally, the 
accountant should obtain evidence that the reported financial information agrees with or reconciles  
with the accounting records (See PCAOB Standards and Related Rules, AU § 722.18). 
Additionally, PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 3 applies to reviews of interim financial information 
and establishes requirements for the extent of documentation that an auditor should prepare and 
retain. 

       37.     Although KMJ performed certain analytical procedures and made some inquiries, 
Merkley and Price failed to develop expectations based on plausible relationships and exercise 
professional skepticism in inquiring about unusual and significant transactions occurring at quarter 
end and the status of uncorrected misstatements identified during prior periods.  In certain reviews, 
Merkley and Price relied on analytical review comparisons that yielded no meaningful 
relationships.16
                 At other times, Merkley and Price failed to recognize or appropriately respond to 
implausible relationships and unusual, significant transactions occurring at quarter-end, each of 
which represented fictitious revenue recorded by HSOA management.        17
                                                                            For at least the first 
quarter 2006 review, neither Merkley nor Price confirmed that the financial statements included in 
HSOA’s first quarter 2006 Form 10-Q agreed to  financial information reviewed by KMJ.  Lastly, 
after discovering a likely error in recording year-end 2004 EBITDA bonuses, neither Merkley nor 
Price ensured that HSOA accounted for year-end EBITDA bonuses in accordance with GAAP or 

                                                        
       16 
               For instance, on a work paper pr epared by Price and reviewed by Merkley in connection with its  
March 31, 2006 review, Price compared annualized first quarter 2006 results to 2005 results multiplied by three, not  
four, for a subsidiary acquired on September 27, 2005.  Also, on another work paper reviewed by Merkley in   
connection with its March 31, 2006 review, the preparer                     compared annualized first quarter 2006 results to  
unadjusted 2005 results for a subsidiary that began operations in the fourth quarter of 2005.                           
       17 
               For example, Price noted a large unusual transaction constituting significantly all of HSOA’s  
largest subsidiary’s revenue in the first quarter 2007 but accepted management’s representation regarding the  
transaction despite multiple inconsistencies and manageme nt’s conflicting statements about the transaction and   
HSOA’s accounting.  Price relied on management’s representations that the amounts recorded as revenue had been    
billed by HSOA and were based on work by HSOA, even though he knew that such amounts were recorded via  
journal entries and not through the subsidiary’s normal billing systems.  Additionally, KMJ’s work papers document  
that advances from a third party lender were recorded as liabilities by HSOA, when in fact they ultimately  
recognized such amounts as revenue.  In connection with KMJ’s second quarter 2007 review, Price similarly failed    
to obtain an understanding of the purported transactions.   

                                                      13
 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

consistently with management’s representations. Additionally, Merkley and Price failed to ensure 
that KMJ’s reviews were documented in accordance with PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 3, as  
evidenced by the lack of review on most work papers and no evidence of a partner review.   

       Failure to Issue Accurate Audit Reports  

       38.     PCAOB standards require that the auditor’s report contain an opinion on the 
financial statements taken as a whole and contain a clear indication of the character of the auditor’s 
work (See PCAOB Standards   and Related Rules, AU § 508.04).  The auditor can determine that he 
is able to issue an audit report containing an unqualified opinion only if he has conducted his audit 
in accordance with PCAOB standards and the financial statements have been prepared in 
conformity with GAAP (See PCAOB Standards and Related Rules, AU §§ 508.08 and 508.14).   

       39.     Merkley acted unreasonably in rendering audit reports containing unqualified 
opinions.  Merkley approved KMJ’s issuance of audit reports on HSOA’s financial statements  
even though he should have known that KMJ’s audits had not  been conducted in accordance with 
PCAOB standards and that HSOA’s financial statements did not present fairly, in all material 
respects, HSOA’s financial position, operating results, and cash flows in conformity with GAAP. 

        
       E.      VIOLATIONS  

       Merkley Was a Cause of HSOA’s Violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the 
       Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 Thereunder  

       40.     Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder require 
issuers with securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act to file quarterly and annual 
reports with the Commission and to keep this information current. The obligation to file such 
reports embodies the requirement that they be true and correct. See, e.g., SEC v. Savoy Indus., Inc., 
587 F.2d 1149, 1165 (D.C. Cir. 1978).  HSOA violated Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and 
Rules 13a-1, and 13a-13, by filing Forms 10-KSB and 10-QSB (for 2004 and 2005) and Forms 10-
K and 10-Q (for 2006 and the first and second quarters of 2007) that materially misrepresented 
HSOA’s revenues and earnings.  Merkley signed audit reports indicating that KMJ’s audits of 
HSOA’s 2004, 2005, and 2006 financial statements had been conducted in accordance with the 
standards of the PCAOB, and that the financial statements were presented fairly in conformity with 
GAAP, despite numerous inconsistencies and evidence to the contrary, including 
misrepresentations by HSOA’s management.  Similarly, Merkley supervised KMJ’s reviews of 
HSOA’s 2005 and 2006 interim financial statements, which he improperly represented had been 
conducted in accordance with PCAOB standards.  By his actions, Merkley was a cause of HSOA 
filing false and misleading annual and quarterly reports with the Commission that misrepresented 
HSOA’s financial results.  Accordingly, Merkley was a cause of HSOA’s violations of Section 
13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder. 

       41.     Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires registrants under Section 12 of 
the Exchange Act to make and keep books, records, and accounts that accurately and fairly reflect  

                                                 14
 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

the transactions and dispositions of their assets.  HSOA violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) by recording 
and reporting revenue from fictitious projects, overstating revenue earned from real projects, and 
artificially inflating net income by improperly deferring bonus expense.  As discussed above, 
Merkley’s actions were a cause of HSOA’s books and records to inaccurately reflect transactions, 
thereby causing HSOA’s violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act. 

       Rule 2-02 of Regulation S-X  

       42.     Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X requires an accountant’s report to state “whether 
the audit was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.”  “[R]eferences in 
Commission rules and staff guidance and in the federal securities laws to GAAS or to specific 
standards under GAAS, as they relate to issuers, should be understood to mean the standards of the 
PCAOB plus any applicable rules of the Commission.”  (See SEC Release No. 34-49708 (May 14, 
2004)).  Thus, an auditor violates Regulation S-X Rule 2-02(b)(1) if it issues a report stating that it 
had conducted its audit in accordance with PCAOB standards when it had not.                                       See In re Andrew  
Sims, CPA, Rel. No.34-59584, AAER No. 2950 (Mar. 17, 2009). 

       43.     KMJ issued audit reports  on HSOA’s 2005 and 2006 financial statements stating 
that it had conducted its audits in accordance with PCAOB standards.  KMJ’s audits, however,  
were not conducted in accordance with PCAOB standards, in part due to Merkley’s failures to 
plan, supervise assistants, document procedures performed, and obtain sufficient competent 
evidence to serve as a basis for KMJ’s audit opinions.  Merkley should have known that KMJ had 
not documented its 2005 audit in accordance with PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 3, Audit 
Documentation, should have known KMJ had not obtained sufficient competent evidential matter  
that HSOA’s 2005 and 2006 bonuses were presented in conformity with GAAP, and should have 
known KMJ had not obtained sufficient competent evidential matter that HSOA’s 2006 revenues  
and cost of revenues were presented in conformity with GAAP at the dates he approved KMJ’s 
issuance of audit reports on HSOA’s 2005 and 2006 financial statements.  Accordingly, Merkley 
caused KMJ’s violations of Rule 2-02(b)(1). 

       Rule 102(e) and Section 4C of the Exchange Act  

       44.     Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Section 4C of the 
Exchange Act authorize the Commission to censure or deny, temporarily or permanently, the  
privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission to accountants who are found to have  
engaged in improper professional conduct.  Under Rule 102(e)(1)(iv), the term “improper 
professional conduct” means, in part, “repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting 
in a violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice 
before the Commission.”    

       45.     Merkley’s and Price’s actions during the engagements were unreasonable and failed 
to conform to applicable professional standards.  Merkley and Price failed to (i) obtain sufficient 
competent evidential matter regarding bonuses, revenues, and cost of revenues with respect to 
KMJ’s 2004, 2005, and 2006 audit engagements; (ii) comply with PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 
3; (iii) adequately plan the audit and properly supervise assistants in connection with the 2006 
                                                  15
 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

engagement; and (iv) conduct reviews of interim financial information in accordance with PCAOB 
standards and rules.  Additionally, Merkley caused KMJ to issue inaccurate audit reports in that he 
should have known that KMJ’s unqualified audit reports were false because they incorrectly 
represented that the audits were conducted in accordance with PCAOB standards and that HSOA’s 
financial statements were prepared in conformity with GAAP.  Based on Merkley’s violations of 
applicable professional standards, Merkley was a cause of HSOA issuing misstated financial 
statements.  This conduct supports an action against Merkley and Price under Rules 102(e)(1)(ii) 
and 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) of the Rules of Practice. 

       F.     FINDINGS  
        
       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that KMJ, Merkley and Price engaged in 
improper professional conduct pursuant to Rules 102(e)(1)(ii) and 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice and Section 4C of the Exchange Act.  Additionally, the 
Commission finds that Merkley was a cause of HSOA’s violations of Sections 13(a) and 
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 promulgated thereunder and caused 
KMJ’s violation of Regulation S-X Rule 2-02(b)(1).  
        
       G.      UNDERTAKINGS  

       KMJ undertakes the following: 

   1.   Acceptance of New Public Company Audit Clients.  The goal of this undertaking is to 
provide adequate time for KMJ to implement the undertakings concerning auditing and 
professional development matters described below and implement such other adjustments to its 
audit practice required by the suspension of Merkley and Price from appearing or practicing before 
the Commission.  KMJ undertakes that, following the issuance of this Order, it will not accept new 
engagements for public company audits prior to the later of March 31, 2011, or the date that KMJ 
certifies in writing compliance with each of the undertakings in the form described in paragraph 5, 
below (the “Certificate of Compliance”).  A public  company audit is defined as an engagement to 
audit the financial statements of  an “issuer” as that term is defined in Section 3(a)(8) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 

   2.   Auditing Matters.  The goal of this undertaking is to require KMJ to engage in an internal 
review of its existing policies and procedures concerning compliance with the relevant 
professional, regulatory and firm requirements with respect to public company audit engagements.   
Prior to December 31, 2010, KMJ shall revise as  may be necessary, and then engage in steps to  
implement and enforce, such policies and procedures so as to provide reasonable assurance that 
KMJ will comply with its obligations under professional, regulatory and firm requirements with  
respect to public company audit engagements.  KMJ shall review its policies and procedures 
concerning: 

       a.	   Identification and monitoring of high risk engagements, including policies covering 
           mandatory procedures for high risk engagements.  Additionally, KMJ shall designate a 

                                                  16
 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

           partner within the firm responsible for risk management, including, but not limited to, 
           client acceptance and continuance procedures.   

       b.	   Completion of planning prior to the commencement of audit fieldwork.  Such policies  
           and procedures shall provide reasonable assurance that, prior to the commencement of 
           any significant audit procedures:   

           (i)   Work papers identifying significant audit areas, documenting risks of material 
               misstatements, and planned extent of testing are finalized and reviewed and 
               approved by the engagement partner, and, when appropriate, the engagement 
               quality reviewer; and 

           (ii)  Written audit programs are tailored to address identified risks of material 
               misstatements and specify in reasonable detail the procedures expected to be 
               performed to accomplish the objectives of the audit, specify the dollar amount of 
               audit scopes to be used to select items to be tested, specify the expected extent of 
               testing, and a requirement that the reason for any deviation is documented. 

       c.	   Audit Sampling. KMJ shall implement such policies and procedures to ensure that it 
           documents its judgments as to the use of statistical or nonstatistical audit sampling 
           methods, identifies relevant populations, identifies expected audit coverage, determines 
           appropriate sample size, selects sample items in such a way that the items selected are 
           representative of the population, tests sample selections, evaluates results, and projects 
           identified errors to the entire population.  

       d.	   Consultations.  KMJ shall implement enhanced consultation procedures and 
           documentation requirements regarding unusual accounting, auditing, or financial 
           reporting issues.  Such procedures shall also include procedures for external firm  
           consultations regarding accounting, auditing, or financial reporting issues not resolved 
           by the audit team, engagement quality reviewer, and, if applicable, the internal 
           consultation process. 

       e.	   Documentation. KMJ shall implement enhanced documentation procedures to 
           provide reasonable assurance that KMJ complies with Auditing Standard No. 3, Audit 
           Documentation, on each of its public company audit engagements.  Such procedures 
           shall emphasize that documentation must be prepared in sufficient detail to provide a 
           clear understanding of its purpose, source, and the conclusions reached and require 
           that any additions made after the documentation date    18
                                                                      must identify the date the 
                                                        
       18 
               Auditing Standard No. 3, paragraph 15, states, “A  complete and final set of audit documentation   
should be assembled for retention as of a date not more than 45 days after the report release date (documentation                            
completion date). If a report is not issued in connection with an engagement, then the documentation completion                         
date should not be more than 45 days from the date that                       fieldwork was substantially completed. If the auditor was  
unable to complete the engagement, then the documentation completion date should not be more than 45 days from                             
the date the engagement ceased.”  

                                                      17
 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

           information was added, the name of the person who prepared the additional 
           documentation, and the reason for adding it.  Additionally, KMJ shall adopt a policy 
           making it mandatory that engagement partners on public company audit engagements 
           review each audit area designated as having a significant risk of material 
           misstatement (whether due to fraud or error) to ensure compliance with both PCAOB 
           standards and related rules and firm policies and procedures. 

       f.	   Detection and Reporting of Illegal Client Activity (Section 10A Compliance). KMJ 
           shall make such revisions as may be necessary in order to adopt, implement and 
           enforce written policies and procedures providing reasonable assurance that KMJ 
           complies with Section 10A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, 
           including without limitation, for each audit subject to Section 10A, procedures 
           designed to provide reasonable assurance of detecting illegal acts that would have a 
           direct and material effect on the determination of financial statement amounts, and to 
           comply with all requirements under the standards of the Commission, the PCAOB, 
           and Section 10A to evaluate and report suspected illegal acts.  

       g.	   Engagement Quality Control.  KMJ shall undertake a review of its existing procedures  
           to provide reasonable assurance that it complies with the PCAOB’s Auditing Standard 
           No. 7,  Engagement Quality Review. 

   3.	   Professional Development.  The goal of this undertaking is to require KMJ to establish, 
       implement, and enforce written policies and procedures designed to provide reasonable 
       assurance that KMJ’s professionals serving public company audit clients participate in 
       professional development activities in accordance with firm guidelines, in subjects that are 
       relevant to their responsibilities and will contribute to their technical training and 
       proficiency as an auditor.  Within 90 days of this Order, KMJ will evaluate its existing 
       professional development policy and shall make such revisions as may be necessary in 
       order to adopt, implement, and enforce written policies and procedures to provide that 
       professionals serving public company audit clients participate in professional development 
       activities in accordance with firm guidelines, in subjects that are relevant to their 
       responsibilities and will contribute to their technical training and proficiency as an auditor.  
       Additionally, prior to December 31, 2010, KMJ will require each audit professional serving 
       public company audit clients to undergo: 

       a.	   A Minimum of 16 Hours of Audit-Related Training.  The audit-related training 
           requirement shall cover topics including, but not limited to: (1) assessing risks of 
           material misstatements and developing responsive audit plans, (2) determining and 
           documenting appropriate sampling methods and sample sizes, selecting samples, and 
           evaluating and documenting results; (3) audit documentation; and (4) obtaining and 
           evaluating sufficient competent evidential matter, including corroboration of 
           management’s representations. The audit-related training requirement may be fulfilled 
           by participating in or completing course(s) conducted by or offered by the American  
           Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) or another comparable organization. 

                                                  18
 
---------------------Page 19---------------------

       b.	   A Minimum of 8 Hours of Fraud-Detection Training.  KMJ shall ensure that audit 
           professionals assigned to public company engagements undergo fraud detection 
           training conducted by the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners or another 
           comparable organization.  The training will include techniques in detecting and 
           responding to possible fraud by audit clients or by employees, officers or directors of 
           audit clients. 

   4.	   Cooperation. KMJ agrees that KMJ (including its partners, principals, officers, agents 
       and employees) shall cooperate fully with the Commission with respect to any matter 
       relating to the Commission's investigation of HSOA or its current or former officers, 
       directors or employees, including but not limited to any litigation or other proceeding 
       related to or resulting from that investigation, including litigation in SEC v. Home 
       Solutions of America, Inc., et al, Civil No. 3:09-cv-02269-N (N.D.Tx.). Such cooperation 
       shall include, but is not limited to, upon reasonable notice, and without subpoena: 
               
       a.	   Producing any document, record, or other tangible evidence reasonably requested by 
           Commission staff in connection with the Commission's investigation, litigation or 
           other proceedings; 
       b.	   Providing all information reasonably requested by Commission staff in connection 
           with the Commission's investigation; and 
       c.	   Using its best efforts to secure the attendance and truthful statements or testimony of 
           any KMJ partner, principal, officer, agent, or employee, excluding any such person 
           who is a party to litigation with the Commission, at any meeting, interview, 
           testimony, deposition, trial, or other legal proceeding reasonably requested by the 
           Commission staff. 

   5.	   Certification of Compliance. KMJ shall certify, in writing, compliance with the 
       undertakings set forth above.  The certification shall identify the undertakings, provide 
       written evidence of compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits 
       sufficient to demonstrate compliance.  The Commission staff ma   y make reasonable 
       requests for further evidence of compliance, and KMJ agrees to provide such evidence.  
       The certification and supporting material shall be submitted to David Peavler, Assistant 
       Director, Fort Worth Regional Office or his successor, with copies to the Office of Chief  
       Counsel of the Enforcement Division and to the PCAOB, Director of Registration and 
       Inspection, no later than March 31, 2011. 

                                           IV. 
                                                     
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
        
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
        

                                                   19
 
---------------------Page 20---------------------

       KMJ 
 

       A.      KMJ is hereby censured pursuant to Rules  102(e)(1)(ii) and 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) of 
               the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Section 4C of the Exchange Act. 
        
       Merkley 
        
       B.      Merkley shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Sections  13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13, 
thereunder, and Regulation S-X Rule 2-02(b)(1).  
        
       C.      Merkley is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission 
as an accountant. 
 
       D.      After three years from the date of this order, Merkley may request that the  
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the  
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
             
                         1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Merkley’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he/she practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
             
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
             
                      (a)     Merkley, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, 
is registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such 
registration continues to be effective; 
        
                      (b)     Merkley, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision;  
        
                      (c)     Merkley has resolved all disciplinary issues with the PCAOB, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the PCAOB (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
        
                      (d)     Merkley acknowledges his respon   sibility, as long as he appears or 
practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all requirements 
of the Commission and the PCAOB, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to 
registration, inspections, engagement quality reviews and quality control standards. 
                                                   20
 
---------------------Page 21---------------------

 
       E.      The Commission will consider an application by Merkley to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Merkley’s character, 
integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
        
       Price 
 
       F.      Price is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
       G.      After two years from the date of this order, Price may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the  
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
             
                         1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Price’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he/she practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
             
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
             
                       (a)    Price, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such 
registration continues to be effective; 
        
                       (b)    Price, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision;  
        
                       (c)    Price has resolved all disciplinary issues with the PCAOB, and has 
complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the PCAOB (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
        
                       (d)    Price acknowledges his respons   ibility, as long as he appears or 
practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all requirements 
of the Commission and the PCAOB, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to 
registration, inspections, engagement quality reviews and quality control standards. 
                                                    21
 
---------------------Page 22---------------------

 
         H.        The Commission will consider an application by Price to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Price’s character, 
integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
          
          
          By the Commission. 
          
          
          
                Elizabeth                                                                         M. Murphy
                Secretary                                                                   
          

                                                                   22
 
---------------------Page 23---------------------

                                         Service List  

        

              Rule 141 of the Commission's Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or 
another duly authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order Instituting 
Public Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 4C and 21C of the  
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making 
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), on the Respondents and their legal agents. 

        

The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to notice: 

 
        
Honorable Brenda P. Murray  
Chief Administrative Law Judge 
Securities and Exchange Commission 
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC  20549-2557   
        
        
David Peavler, Esq. 
Fort Worth Regional Office 
Securities and Exchange Commission 
801 Cherry Street, Suite 1900 
Fort Worth, TX 76102 
        
        
KMJ Corbin & Company LLP 
Attention:  Mr. Theodore M. Faddoul, Managing Partner 
c/o Stephen J. Tully, Esq. 
Garrett & Tully 
4165 E. Thousand Oaks Blvd., Suite 201  
Westlake Village, CA  91362 
        
Stephen J. Tully, Esq. 
Garrett & Tully 
4165 E. Thousand Oaks Blvd., Suite 201  
Westlake Village, CA  91362 
(Counsel for KMJ Corbin & Company LLP) 
        
        
Mr. Kendall G. Merkley 
                                                 23
 
---------------------Page 24---------------------

c/o Sean T. Prosser, Esq. 

Morrison Foerster LLP 

12531 High Bluff Drive, Suite 100 

San Diego, CA  92130-2040 

        
Sean T. Prosser, Esq. 

Morrison Foerster LLP 

12531 High Bluff Drive, Suite 100 

San Diego, CA  92130-2040 

(Counsel for Kendall G. Merkley) 

        
        
Mr. Anthony J. Price 

c/o Stephen J. Tully, Esq. 

Garrett & Tully 

4165 E. Thousand Oaks Blvd., Suite 201  

Westlake Village, CA  91362 

 
        
Stephen J. Tully, Esq. 

Garrett & Tully 

4165 E. Thousand Oaks Blvd., Suite 201  

Westlake Village, CA  91362 

(Counsel for Anthony J. Price) 

 

                                                 24 
