---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 69879 / June 27, 2013 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3467 / June 27, 2013 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-13151 

                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Jerry L. Burdick, CPA 
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                          
        

       On August 29, 2008, Jerry L. Burdick, CPA (“Burdick”) suspended from  appearing or 
practicing before the Commission as an accountant as a result of settled public administrative 
proceedings instituted by the Commission against Burdick pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice.1
                                  This order is issued in response to  Burdick’s application for 
reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant responsible for the 
preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed with the Commission. 

       The Commission found that Burdick had been permanently enjoined by a United States 
District Court from future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act of 1933 
and Rules 13a-14, 13b2-1, and 13b2-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 
Act”), and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act 
and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-13 thereunder.  In its complaint, the Commission alleged that 
SeraCare Life Sciences Inc. (“SeraCare”), through the misconduct of Burdick, misstated its 
financial statements by inflating income before taxes for the second and third quarters of fiscal 
year 2005 by 20% and 17%, respectively.  The complaint alleged that Burdick improperly 
released general inventory reserves that he created following a major acquisition by SeraCare, 
which caused SeraCare’s net income before taxes to be inflated in the second and third quarters 
of 2005. The complaint further alleged that Burdick caused misrepresentations to be made to 
SeraCare’s auditors by creating a backdated letter that was given to the auditors as support for 
recognizing revenue on an almost $1 million sale before the close of the fiscal year. The 
                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2870 dated August 29, 2008.  Burdick was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after one year upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                    

complaint further alleged that Burdick also caused misrepresentations to be made to SeraCare’s 
auditors by providing an increased inventory valuation without any documented or verifiable 
support.  
                
       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Burdick 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Burdick is not, at this time, seeking to appear 
or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume 
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be 
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Burdick’s 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard   in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 

       Burdick is currently subject to probation under the California Board of Accountancy    . 
Failure to abide by the terms of his probation could result in the revocation of Burdick’s CPA 
license. Burdick has attested that he will notify the Commission if he is found to have violated 
the terms of the probation. He also has attested that he understands that the suspension of his 
CPA license could result in the revocation of the reinstatement of his privilege to appear or 
practice before the Commission as an accountant. 
        
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 

       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Burdick, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the August 29, 2008 order 
suspending him from appearing or    practicing  before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct, or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
and that Burdick, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee 
of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in 
his practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to 
be filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is 
accordingly, 
                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this rule may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a hearing; 
however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated by the 
Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R . § 201.102(e)(5)(i).   
 

                                                 2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                                

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice that 
Jerry L. Burdick, CPA  is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                             
                                             
                                            Elizabeth M. Murphy    
                                            Secretary  

                                               3 
