---------------------Page 1---------------------

                               UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                            before the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 68500 / December 20, 2012 
 
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940 
Release No. 3523 / December 20, 2012 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3433 / December 20, 2012 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15148 
                                                                                     
                                                                              :              
                                             :              
                                             :               
       In the Matter of                      :       ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                  :  PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO SECTION                   
       STEVEN A. GOULD   CPA,               :        203(f) OF THE INVESTMENT ADVISERS 
                                                  :  ACT OF 1940 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
       Respondent.                               :   COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                                  :  MAKING FINDINGS, AND               
                                                  :  IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                   :              
____________________________________ :               
                                                            
 
 
                                                I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to 
Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) and Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of 
the Commission’s Rules of Practice against Steven A. Gould (“Respondent” or “Gould”).    1
                                                                                             

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.2 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 
203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
               1.     Gould, age 48, is a certified public accountant currently licensed in New 
York.  Gould was the chief financial officer of West End Financial Advisors (“West End”) from 
September 2006 to May 11, 2009.  West End is a New York-based, unregistered investment adviser 
to a collection of hedge funds (the “West End funds”).  West End is affiliated with Sentinel 
Investment Management Corporation, which has been registered with the Commission since 1986.   
Gould’s responsibilities at West End included overseeing West End’s accounting department, 
maintaining financial records for the West End funds, and preparing monthly account statements 
sent to West End investors. 
        
               2.     On September 25, 2012, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of 
New York entered a final judgment against Gould, permanently enjoining him from future 
violations, direct or indirect, of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 10(b) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and Sections 206(1), 206(2), and 
206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-8 thereunder, in the civil action entitled Securities and 
Exchange Commission v. Landberg, et al., 11-CV-0404 (PKC).  Gould was also ordered to pay a 
$130,000 civil money penalty. 
 
               3.     The Commission’s amended complaint alleged that between at least January 
2008 and May 2009 Gould knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that the returns West End funds 
were generating were not adequate to meet the funds’ obligations.  Account statements that Gould 
prepared misrepresented the returns of the West End funds.  Gould was aware of the extensive 
commingling of assets among West End funds.  Gould also facilitated the misuse of funds from  a 
reserve account that was to be maintained on behalf of a lender to a West End fund and devised an 
accounting mechanism to disguise at least one instance where money was improperly taken from 
the account.  Gould was also aware that investments were being used in ways that were 
inconsistent with what had been represented to West End’s investors. 

                                                                                                                                                             
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
                                                 IV. 
                                                    
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Gould’s Offer.    
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       (i)     pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act that Respondent Gould be, and 
               hereby is: 
 
               barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal 
               securities dealer, or transfer agent. 
                
       Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws 
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of 
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following:  (a) any 
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially 
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served 
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a 
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order; 
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct 
that served as the basis for the Commission order. 
                
       (ii)     pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice,   Gould is 
               suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                                                     Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                                                     Secretary 
 

                                                  3  
