---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                         the 

 SECURITIES                         AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 63690 / January 11, 2011 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3227 / January 11, 2011 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-10762 
 
                                                     
                                         :     
In the Matter of                         :    ORDER AMENDING  
                                         :    ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND 
       MICHAEL R. DROGIN, CPA,    :           IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                         :    PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF 
Respondent.                              :    THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE  
                                         : 
 
 
                                               
                                             I.  
       On May 6, 2003, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) issued an 
Order Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (the “2003 Order”) against Michael R. 
Drogin, CPA (“Drogin”).  The 2003 Order found that Drogin engaged in improper professional 
conduct under Rule 102(e)(1)1
                             of the Commission’s Rules of Practice in connection with his audit 
of the 1999 financial statements of Teltran International Group, Ltd.  The 2003 Order denied 
Drogin the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, with the   
ability to request that the Commission consider reinstatement after two years.  The Commission 
has not reinstated Drogin’s privilege to appear or practice before the Commission.  As set forth 
below, Drogin thereafter violated the terms of the 2003 Order.   

                                                 
1 
       Rule 102(e)(1) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides in pertinent part that:   
       The Commission may censure a person or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
       appearing or practicing before it in any way to  any person who is found by the Commission after 
       notice and opportunity for hearing in the matter: . . . (ii) To be lacking in character or integrity or 
       to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (iii) To have willfully violated, 
       or willfully aided and abetted the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or the 
       rules and regulations thereunder.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
                                              II.  
        
       Drogin has submitted an Amended Offer of Settlement (the “Amended Offer”) in which he 
consents to the entry of an order amending the 2003 Order to strike Subsections B and C of 
Section IV of the 2003 Order regarding requests for reinstatement of his privilege to appear or 
practice before the Commission.  Solely for purposes of these proceedings and any other 
proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or as to which the Commission is a party, 
and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction 
over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Drogin consents to the 
entry of this Order Amending Order Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions Pursuant 
to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice (“Order”), as set forth below. 
        
                                              III. 
       On the basis of this Order and Drogin’s Amended Offer, the Commission finds that:  
A. Respondent     
       Drogin resides in New York and is licensed as a Certified Public Accountant in New York 
and New Jersey.  From January 1998 through early 2009, Drogin was a partner in the accounting 
firm Liebman, Goldberg & Drogin, LLP (“LGD”).  The 2003 Order denied Drogin the privilege of 
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant.  The Commission has not 
reinstated Drogin’s privilege to appear  or practice before it as an accountant.  
 
B. Facts     
       Beginning no later than the fall of 2005 and continuing into late 2008, while he was a 
partner of LGD, Drogin violated the 2003 Order by performing audit, review and other accounting 
work in connection with filings made by three issuers with the Commission.  In 2005 and 2006, 
Drogin participated in auditing the financial statements of one of the  companies, which were 
included in registration statements and amendments filed with the Commission, including a Form  
SB-2 filed in September 2005.  In  2007, Drogin participated in auditing the financial statements of 
all three issuers, which were incorporated in various filings with the Commission, including an  
annual report, a proxy statement, and registration statements filed by two of the issuers.  Drogin 
also reviewed quarterly and current filings made with the Commission by  the three issuers. In 
several instances, Drogin advised management of the respective companies regarding disclosures 
contained in those filings.  When one of the issuers restated its prior period consolidated financial 
statements to properly reflect the classification of stock warrants receivable, Drogin participated in 
the audit of the restated financial statements, which were included in the issuer’s amended 2006 
Form 10-K-SB filed  with the Commission in November 2007. 
       In addition to performing audit and review work, Drogin assisted two of the issuers in 
responding to comments from the staff of the Commission’s Division of Corporation Finance on 
the three registration statements described above.  Further, Drogin periodically provided advice to 
the three issuers concerning accounting and disclosures issues, which was then reflected in the 

                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

financial statements and disclosures included in various filings that these companies made with the 
Commission. 
       In March and April 2008, Drogin issued audit reports for the financial statements of the 
three issuers, stating that each issuer’s financial statements were prepared in conformity with 
GAAP and fairly presented the financial position of the respective companies.  These audit reports 
were incorporated into the issuers’ 2007 annual  reports on Form 10-K filed with the Commission, 
as well as an amended securities registration statement on Form S-1/A filed by one of the issuers in 
April 2008.  In each instance, Drogin issued the audit report without having performed an audit of 
the financial statements.  Drogin nevertheless represented in each audit report that an audit had 
been performed in accordance with applicable auditing standards and provided a reasonable basis 
for the unqualified report.  Drogin’s audit reports also misrepresented that the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements had been examined on a test basis and the accounting 
principles used and significant estimates made by management had been assessed. 
 
C. Drogin’s Violations       
       Drogin’s performance of audit, review, and other services for the three issuers from the fall 
of 2005 through late 2008 constitute appearing or practicing before the Commission, in violation of 
the 2003 Order.  Rule 102(f) broadly defines “practicing before the Commission” to include “[t]he  
preparation of any statement, opinion or other paper by any . . . accountant . . . filed with the 
Commission in any registration statement, notification, application, report or other document with  
the consent of such . . . accountant . . ..”  The purpose of Rule 102 is to protect the integrity of the  
Commission’s processes, see  Touche Ross & Co. v. S.E.C., 609 F.2d 570, 582 (2d Cir. 1979) and, 
accordingly, covers a wide range of conduct related to the disclosure process under the securities 
laws.   
       Between 2005 and 2008, Drogin appeared or practiced before the Commission within the 
meaning of Rule 102(f) in violation of the 2003 Order by, among other things:  participating in the 
audit of financial statements that were subsequently included in filings with the Commission 
(including annual reports and registration statements); reviewing quarterly and current reports;  
participating in the preparation of responses to comment letters from the Division of Corporation 
Finance concerning registration statements; providing accounting advice to the issuers that was 
then reflected in financial statements the issuers filed with the Commission; and issuing audit 
reports on behalf of LGD for the three issuers in 2008.  Accordingly, Drogin repeatedly violated 
the 2003 Order over a period of several years. 
       Further, as described above, Drogin issued three audit reports in 2008 without having 
completed audits of the issuers’ financial statements.  Therefore, each of the three audit reports 
Drogin issued in March and April 2008 contained false or misleading representations concerning 
the performance of audits of the respective financial statements.  As a  result, Drogin willfully 
violated Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 10(b) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.  With respect to 
the two issuers that had a class of securities registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 
12, Drogin also willfully aided and abetted violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and 
Rules 12b-20 and 13a-1 thereunder.  

                                                3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

         
                                                   IV. 
        Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Drogin appeared or practiced before the 
Commission in violation of the 2003 Order.  The Commission further finds that Drogin willfully 
violated Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 
thereunder, and willfully aided and abetted violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and 
Rules 12b-20 and 13a-1  promulgated thereunder. 
         
                                                   V.  
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to amend Section IV of the 
2003 Order as agreed to in Drogin’s Amended Offer. 
         
        Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that: 
        A. 	    Subsections B and C of Section IV of the 2003 Order, regarding requests for 
                reinstatement of Drogin’s privilege to appear or practice before the Commission as  
                an accountant, are stricken in their entirety.   
        B. 	    Subsection A of Section IV of the 2003 Order, which denies Drogin the privilege of 
                appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, remains in effect. 
         
        By the Commission. 
 
 
 
 
      Elizabeth                                                 M. Murphy
                                         Secretary 
 

                                                    4
  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                           Service List  
 
       Rule 141 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or another 
duly authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order Amending Order 
Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions  Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of The Commission’s  
Rules of Practice on the Respondent and his legal agent. 
 
       The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to 
notice:  
 
The Honorable Brenda P. Murray            
Chief Administrative Law Judge                          
Securities and Exchange Commission  
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC  20549-2557  
 
Thomas W. Peirce, Esq. 
Division of Enforcement                                    
Securities and Exchange Commission            
100 F Street, N.E.     
Washington, DC  20549-5720 
 
Andrew S. Rendeiro, Esq. 
Flamhaft Levy Hirsch & Rendeiro LLP 
Suite 3301 
16 Court Street 
Brooklyn, NY 11241 
(Counsel for Respondent) 
 
Mr. Michael R. Drogin, CPA 
8 Hunt Court 
Jericho, NY 11753 
 

                                                5
  
