---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                               
                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  

                                         Before the 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 63033 / October 4, 2010 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No.  3195 / October 4, 2010 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-11374 

                            : 
                           : 
In the Matter of             ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           : 
                             REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
                           : 
Victor R. Wahba, CPA         BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT  
                           : 
                           : 
                           
        
       On January 15, 2004, Victor R. Wahba (“Wahba”) was suspended from appearing or  
practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public administrative 
proceedings instituted by the Commission against Wahba pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                 Wahba consented to the entry of the January 15, 2004 order 
without admitting or denying the findings therein.  This order is issued in response to Wahba’s 
application for reinstatement to practice before the Commission as an accountant. 
        
       During the years 1997 and 1998, Wahba was employed as a partner at Weiser LLP 
(“Weiser”).  During these two years, Wahba participated as the partner in charge of Weiser’s 
surprise inspections of the Sagam Capital Management Corporation (“Sagam Corp.”).  As the 
partner in charge of these surprise inspections, the Commission alleged that Wahba engaged in 
instances of highly unreasonable conduct by failing to conduct them in accordance with the 
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) Rule 206(4)-2(a)(5).  This conduct caused 
and aided and abetted Sagam Corp.’s violations of Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and 
constituted improper professional conduct. 
 
       Wahba has met all of the conditions set forth in his suspension order and, in his capacity 
as an independent accountant, has stated that he will comply with all requirements of the 
Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, including, but not limited to 
all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
                                                 
1 
 See  Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 1943 dated January 15, 2004.  Wahba was permitted,  
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after four years upon making certain showings.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

control standards.  In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the 
preparation or review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the 
Commission, Wahba attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent 
audit committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, while practicing before the Commission in this capacity.   
        
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”     2
                                                              This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
        On the basis of the information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed 
to by Wahba, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the January 15, 2004 order 
denying him the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, 
that no information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, 
integrity, professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be 
a basis for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of 
Practice, and that Wahba, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit 
committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, in his practice before the Commission as a preparer     or reviewer of financial 
statements required to be filed with the Commission, and that Wahba, by undertaking to comply 
with all requirements of the Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, 
including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring 
partner reviews and quality control standards, in his practice before the Commission as an 
independent accountant has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Victor R. Wahba, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                               
                                               
                                                               
                                                               
                                                              Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                              Secretary 

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3)  
of this section may be made at any time, and the applic ant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated                         
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i).                        
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                    SERVICE LIST  
 
Walter G. Ricciardi 
Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP  
1285 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, NY 10019-6064 
 
