---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No.  64668 / June 14, 2011 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3291 / June 14, 2011 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-11940 

                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
John Van Fleet, CPA  
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                          
        

       On June 2, 2005, John Van Fleet, CPA (“Van Fleet”) was denied the privilege of 
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against Van Fleet pursuant to Rule 
102(e)(1) of the Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                                 Van Fleet  consented to the entry of the order 
without admitting or denying the findings therein.  This order is issued in response to Van Fleet’s 
application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant 
responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed with the 
Commission. 

       The Commission found that Van Fleet, while serving as corporate controller of 
Huntington Bancshares, Inc. (“Huntington”), willfully violated Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of 
the Securities Act of 1933, Section 13(b)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 
Act”), and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder.  The Commission further found that Van Fleet caused 
Huntington’s violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) and (B) of the Exchange Act, and 
Rules 12b-20 and 13a-1 thereunder.  The Commission’s findings related to inflated earnings 
reported in Huntington’s financial statements filed with the Commission in annual reports for 
fiscal years 2001 and 2002.  Huntington’s improper accounting allowed them to meet or exceed 
Wall Street analyst earnings per share expectations and to meet internal targets that determined 
the bonuses of senior management. 

                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2252 dated June 2, 2005.  Van Fleet was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for re instatement after two years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                    

       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Van Fleet    
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Van Fleet  is not, at this time, seeking to 
appear or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to 
resume appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will 
be required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Van Fleet’s  
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard   in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Van Fleet , it appears that he has complied with the terms of the June 2, 2005 order denying 
him the privilege of appearing or practicing  before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 
and that Van Fleet, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit 
committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, in his practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial 
statements required to be filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  
Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that John 
Van Fleet, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of fina ncial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                               
                                               
                                              Elizabeth M. Murphy     
                                              Secretary  
                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R . § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
 

                                                 2 
