---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 65996 / December 16, 2011 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3347 / December 16, 2011            
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14671 
 
                                               
                                               
In the Matter of                              ORDER INSTITUTING  
                                              ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
      Stuart W. Fuhlendorf,                   PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                              COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
Respondent.                                   MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                               REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                        
                                             
                                             
                                             
                                             
                                             
                                             
                                             
                                           I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
W. Fuhlendorf (“Respondent” or “ Fuhlendorf”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1
                 
                                             

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                              III. 
                                                 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
              1.      Fuhlendorf, age 49, is the former Chief Financial Officer of Isilon Systems, 
Inc. (“Isilon”), having served in that capacity from approximately May 2004 to October 2007.  
Fuhlendorf is a resident of Golden, Colorado. 
        
              2.      Isilon was, at all relevant times, a Delaware corporation headquartered in 
Seattle, Washington, which sold clustered storage systems and software for digital content.  From 
December 2006 through November 2010, Isilon’s common stock was registered under Section 
12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and was quoted on the Nasdaq.  
        
              3.      On November 23, 2011, a final judgment was entered against Fuhlendorf, 
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act 
of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 
13b2-1, 13b2-2, and 13a-14 thereunder, in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange 
Commission v. Stuart W. Fuhlendorf, Civil Action Number 2:09-CV-01292-MJP, in the United 
States District Court for the Western District of Washington.  The final judgment also prohibits 
Fuhlendorf from acting as an officer or director of a public company for a period of three years. 
        
              4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Fuhlendorf 
engaged in a financial reporting fraud which caused Isilon to materially overstate revenue in 
periodic reports filed with the Commission during a three-quarter period in 2006 and 2007.  The 
Complaint alleged that Fuhlendorf participated in recording revenue from sales transactions with 
improper terms that materially increased Isilon’s quarterly revenue in a departure from Generally 
Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”).  
 

                                                 
 
                                               2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
                                                    IV. 
                                                       
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Fuhlendorf’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
        A.      Fuhlendorf is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
        B.      After three years from the date of this O  rder, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief 
Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant.           
 
                             
 
        By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                                                     Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                                                     Secretary 
 

 
 
                                                       

                                                       
 
                                                     3 
