---------------------Page 1---------------------

                       UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                  Before the 
               SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 68432 / December 13, 2012 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3428 / December 13, 2012 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15129 

In the Matter of                     ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                     AND CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS 
DELOITTE & TOUCHE (SOUTH             PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 4C AND 21C OF 
AFRICA),                             THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 
                                     1934 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
Respondent.                         COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                     MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                     REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-
                                     AND-DESIST ORDER 

                                      I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate 
and in the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, 
and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice against Deloitte & Touche (South Africa) (“Respondent,” “DT-SA,” or the 
“Firm”). 

                                     II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted 
an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  
Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on 
behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting 
or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over the Firm 
and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to 
the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings 
Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below. 

       
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               III. 

                                                                                           1
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that: 

                                            Summary 

          This matter arises from an independence-impairing business relationship 
between DT-SA – acting through its wholly-owned consulting affiliate, Deloitte 
Consulting (Pty) Ltd. (“DC-SA”) – and Director (defined below).  In April 2006, DC-SA 
entered into a consulting contract with Director.  At that time, the relationship was not a 
prohibited business relationship; Director did not serve on the board of directors of, or 
otherwise in a decision-making capacity for, any DT-SA audit client.  When, in 2007, 
Director joined the board of Company A, an SEC-registrant audit client of DT-SA – and 
notwithstanding Director’s neither serving on Company A’s audit committee nor 
interacting with DT-SA’s audit team – Director’s relationship with DC-SA thereby 
became a prohibited business relationship under Commission Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-
  2
X.    DT -SA did not have   adequate   contro  ls in place to identify, and otherwise did not 
identify, the creation of the prohibited relationship.  While the prohibited relationship was 
in place, DT -SA issued audit reports with respect to Company A, and DC           -SA also 
renewed the contract with the Direct    or.  DC  -SA did not identify the prohibited 
relationship until August 2008,    whereupon     DT -SA  initiated a review of the matter that 
ultimately  resulted in the termination of the relationship in October 2008 (but effective 
September    30, 2008).  

        As a result, DT  -SA engaged in improper professional conduct, violated Rule           2 -
02(b) of Regulation S   -X and caused its audit client Company A to file periodic reports 
with the Commission that failed to include independently audited financial statements as 
required by Exchang    e Act Section 13(a), Exchange Act Rule 13a        -1, and Regulation S   -X.  

                                           Respondent 

          1.    DT-SA, a member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, is a 
  registered public accounting firm headquartered in Johannesburg, South Africa.  At all 
  relevant times and continuing to the present, DT-SA has provided audit and other 
  professional services to a variety of companies, including Company A, whose securities 
  are registered with the Commission and trade in U.S. markets.  DT-SA wholly owns 
  DC-SA, which provides consulting services to various companies in South Africa. 

                                         Relevant Issuer 

          2.    At all relevant times, Company A’s ordinary shares were registered with 
  the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act, and its American 

                                                 
1
    The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any 
    other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
2
    This Order makes no finding with respect to Company A’s reported financial statements for any fiscal 
    year in which the matter discussed herein occurred. 

                                                 2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

Depositary Shares were listed on the New York Stock Exchange.  DT-SA served as 
Company A’s auditor throughout the relevant period and continues to serve in that role. 

                                   The Director 

       3.    Director was an independent consultant hired by DC-SA to assist its work 
in the energy industry.  Director joined the Board of Directors of Company A on 
September 1, 2007, and Director remains in that position to this day. 

                                       Facts 

     A.     The Relationship Between DT-SA And Director 

       4.    DC-SA hired Director in April 2006 as an independent contractor with 
expertise in the energy industry.  At that time, DC-SA performed a conflict and 
background check on Director.  Director was not then on the board of directors of, and 
did not otherwise serve in a decision-making capacity for, any DT-SA audit client; thus, 
the check did not identify any conflict of interest or independence concern related to the 
Firm’s relationship with Director.  DC-SA renewed or extended Director’s contract 
several times, but it did not conduct any further conflicts checks or inquire about 
Director’s business relationships after Director’s initial retention. 

       5.    On September 1, 2007, Director was appointed to the Board of Directors 
of Company A, a Commission-registered audit client of DT-SA.  DT-SA did not have 
adequate controls in place to identify, and otherwise did not identify, the creation of the 
prohibited relationship on a timely basis.  DC-SA subsequently renewed Director’s 
contract with the Firm, but, not having conducted any new conflicts checks, and in the 
absence of any identification of the relationship as potentially problematic by DC-SA 
personnel, did not recognize that Director’s simultaneous work for DC-SA and service 
as a director of Company A would impair DT-SA’s auditor independence with respect 
to Company A. 

       6.    Director openly referred to Director’s role on Company A’s board in 
several communications with various DC-SA personnel, and several internal DC-SA 
communications among the consulting personnel also included references to Director’s 
professional experience, including Director’s service on Company A’s Board of 
Directors.  DC-SA’s personnel, however, did not recognize their significance despite 
having been trained that the Firm’s having a direct business relationship with an audit 
client director was inconsistent with auditor independence standards.  Consequently, 
they did not recognize that Director’s appointment to Company A’s Board created an 
independence concern and thus did not consult with the audit team or with the Firm’s 
independence personnel.  As a result, and because they did not learn of it through 
inquiry, the Firm’s controls, or otherwise, the members of the DT-SA audit team 
assigned to work on Company A’s audits were not aware of Director’s business 
relationship with DC-SA prior to the identification of the issue as described below.   

                                         3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

        B.     Identification of Prohibited Relationship 

          7.    On August 11, 2008, as a part of its ongoing independence education 
  efforts, DT-SA’s director of independence sent an e-mail to personnel at DT-SA and 
  DC-SA notifying them of recently announced Commission enforcement actions in a 
  case finding a direct business relationship between an auditor and an audit client 
  director, and reminding them about business relationship requirements.  In response to 
  that e-mail, a DC-SA consultant identified the relationship with Director as raising a 
  potential independence concern. 

          8.    DT-SA initiated a review of the matter.  As a result of its review of the 
  relationship with Director, DT-SA terminated the relationship in October 2008 (but 
  effective September 30, 2008). 

          9.    DT-SA subsequently informed Company A’s audit committee of the 
  business relationship with Director. 

                                       Legal Analysis 

        A.     Independence Principles Governing the Relationship between DT-SA 
                and Director 

          10.  The basic elements of an auditor independence violation in the business-
  relationship context are (1) an independence-impairing relationship; (2) existing during 
  all or part of the period covered by the audit, or the period of the audit work, or both; 
  followed by (3) issuance of an audit report asserting the auditor’s independence from 
                                                        3
  the client.  See Rule 2-01(c)(3) of Regulation S-X.       Business relationships with persons 
  associated with the audit client in a decision -making capacity, such as audit client 
  directors, officers and substantial stockholders are embraced by this prohibition.     See 
  Rule 2-01(c)(3).  Section 6.02.02.e of the Commission’s Codification of Financial 
  Reporting Policies (“Codification”) (available at 7 Fed. Sec. L. Rep. (CCH) ¶ 73,272) 
  provides, among other things, that: 

        In addition to the relationships specifically prohibited by Rule 2-01, joint 
        business ventures, limited partnership agreements, investments in supplier 
        or customer companies, leasing interests (except for immaterial landlord-
        tenant relationships) and sales by the accountant of items other than 
        professional services are examples of other connections which are also 
        included within this classification. 

                                                 
3
    Rule 2-01(c)(3) provides: 

        An accountant is not independent if, at any point during the audit and professional engagement 
        period, the accounting firm or any covered person in the firm has any direct or material indirect 
        business relationship with an audit client, or with persons associated with the audit client in a 
        decision-making capacity, such as an audit client’s officers, directors, or substantial stockholders. 
        The relationships described in this paragraph do not include a relationship in which the accounting 
        firm or covered person in the firm provides professional services to an audit client or is a 
        consumer in the ordinary course of business. 

                                               4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       11.  DT-SA’s direct business relationship with Director falls within Reg. S-X’s 
prohibition.  Director served as an audit-client director while simultaneously serving as 
a paid consultant to DT-SA.  Although Rule 2-01(c)(3) provides an exception for 
business relationships involving a consumer in the ordinary course of business, that 
exception has no application here where neither party was acting in the capacity of a 
consumer; a cooperative service arrangement like that presented here does not qualify 
for this exception. 

     B.     Violation of Rule 2-02(b) of Regulation S-X and of Issuer Reporting 
            Provisions 

       12.  Because DT-SA’s business relationship with Director impaired DT-SA’s 
independence, it both constituted and caused certain statutory and regulatory violations.  
Each time DT-SA signed an audit report for Company A where either the period 
covered by the audit or the period of the audit work (or both) overlapped with DT-SA’s 
business relationship with Director, DT-SA directly violated Rule 2-02(b) of 
Regulation S-X.  See Rule 2-02(b) (requiring accountant’s report to “state whether the 
audit was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards”).  The DT-
SA year-end audit reports for Company A’s fiscal years ending in September 2007 and 
September 2008 each incorrectly stated that they were performed in accordance with 
the independence standards of GAAS reflected in Rule 2-02(b).  Thus, DT-SA’s failure 
to comply with Rule 2-02(b) of Regulation S-X caused its audit client Company A to 
file annual reports with the Commission that failed to include independently audited 
financial statements as required by Exchange Act Section 13(a) and Exchange Act Rule 
13a-1.  DT-SA is responsible for causing Company A’s reporting violations with 
respect to annual reports filed in January 2008 and 2009, for the aforementioned fiscal 
years, because DT-SA should have known that the Firm’s business relationship with 
Director would cause Company A to lack independence for the corresponding audits. 

     C.     Improper Professional Conduct 

       13.  DT-SA’s failure to comply with Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X described 
above also constitutes improper professional conduct under Exchange Act Section 4C 
and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, which provides, in 
pertinent part, that the Commission may “censure a person or deny, temporarily or 
permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before it…to any person who is 
found…to have engaged in…improper professional conduct.” 

       14.  DT-SA’s conduct constituted improper professional conduct on account of 
DC-SA’s failure (a) at the point when Director joined the board of directors of 
Company A, to identify the independence-impairing relationship; (b) at the points at 
which Director’s contract with DC-SA was renewed or extended, to perform any 
updated independence review or conflicts check; and (c) at the points at which various 
DC-SA personnel, who knew of Director’s consulting relationship with the Firm, 
received communications explicitly identifying Director as a member of Company A’s 
Board, to recognize that the Firm’s continued employment of Director while Director 

                                         5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 simultaneously served on Company A’s Board interfered with DT-SA’s obligation to 
 maintain its independence as Company A’s auditor. 

                             DT-SA’s Remedial Efforts 

       In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts 
undertaken by Respondent and cooperation afforded the Commission staff. 

                                        IV. 

       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent DT-SA 
(a) violated Rule 2-02(b) of Regulation S-X; (b) caused Company A to violate Exchange 
Act Section 13(a) and Exchange Act Rule 13a-1; and (c) engaged in improper 
professional conduct pursuant to Exchange Act Section 4C and Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the 
sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that Respondent 
DT-SA is hereby censured. 

       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent DT-SA shall, within ten (10) days 
of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement of $200,000 and prejudgment interest of 
$47,043.66 to the United States Treasury.  If timely payment is not made, additional 
interest shall accrue pursuant to Commission Rule of Practice 600.  Payment must be 
made in one of the following ways: 

       (1) Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
       will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request; 

       (2) Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
       through the Commission website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or 

       (3) Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States 
       postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission 
       and hand-delivered or mailed to: 

              Enterprise Services Center 
              Accounts Receivable Branch 
              HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
              6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
              Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
               
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
DT-SA as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings.  
A copy of the cover letter and check or money order, or documentation of whatever other 
form of payment is used, must be simultaneously sent to Brian M. Privor, Senior 

                                          6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

Counsel, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., 
N.E., Washington, DC 20549-5546. 

       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED, effectively immediately, that Respondent DT-SA 
shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future 
violations of Rule 2-02(b) of Regulation S-X, and from causing any violations and any 
future violations of Exchange Act Section 13(a) and Rule 13a-1 thereunder. 

       By the Commission. 

                                          Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                          Secretary 

                                          7 
