---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                               
                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                         before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 69645 / May 28, 2013 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3460 / May 28, 2013 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-15077   
 
                                                
In the Matter of                              ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND 
                                              IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
       STORMY L. DEAN,                        PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e)(3)(i) OF THE 
                                              COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE 
             Respondent.                                          
 
                                           
 
                                             I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest to issue this Order Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions pursuant to 
Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice against Stormy L. Dean (“Respondent” or 
“Dean”) with respect to public administrative proceedings previously instituted against him.1
                                                                                        
                                               
                                            II. 
 
       In resolution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer of Settlement (the 
“Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of these 
proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the 
                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder; or found by any court of competent jurisdiction in an action brought by the 
Commission to which he or she is a party . . . to have violated . . . or aided and abetted the 
violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or rules and regulations thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the 
Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings 
contained in Sections III.2. and III.3. below, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry 
of this Order Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
              1.      Stormy L. Dean, age 54, is a resident of Ralston, Nebraska.  From 1995 
through 2008, Dean served in various capacities in the accounting department of infoUSA, Inc. 
(“Info”), an Omaha-based database marketing company.  At Info, Dean served as controller, 
principal accounting officer, and chief financial officer (“CFO”).  Dean was Info’s CFO from 
January 2000 to September 2003, and then again from January 2006 through December 2008.  As 
Info’s CFO, Dean signed and certified Info’s public filings.  Dean passed the certified public 
accountant (“CPA”) examination in 1995 and holds a CPA certificate in the state of Nebraska.  
Dean has never obtained a CPA license. 
        
              2.      On May 29, 2012, the U.S. District Court for the District of Nebraska 
entered a final judgment against Dean, permanently enjoining him from future violations, direct or 
indirect, of Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B), 13(b)(5), and 14(a) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-14, 13b2-1, 13b2-2, 14a-3, and 14a-9 
thereunder.  Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stormy L. Dean, et al., Civil Action Number 
8:10-cv-00102-LSC-FG3.  In the final judgment, the court declared that Dean “acted in bad faith 
toward shareholders of [Info], when committing the acts and omissions that led to this proceeding, 
and knew his actions were contrary to the interests of [Info] and its shareholders.” 
 
              3.      Previously, on March 1, 2012, after a trial, a jury for the U.S. District Court 
for the District of Nebraska, issued a verdict finding Dean liable for violations of Sections 10(b), 
13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B), 13(b)(5), 14(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-
1, 13a-14, 13b2-1, 13b2-2, 14a-3, and 14a-9 thereunder.  Securities and Exchange Commission v. 
Stormy L. Dean, et al., Civil Action Number 8:10-cv-00102-LSC-FG3. 
 
              4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged that Dean signed and certified Info’s 
 false Forms 10-K and proxy statements that materially understated and failed to properly 
 disclose the perquisite compensation of Vinod Gupta, Info’s former chief executive officer and 
 Chairman of the Board of Directors, and failed to properly disclose related party transactions 
 involving Gupta.  The complaint alleged that for the years 2003 through 2007, Gupta used Info 
 to pay for his personal expenses associated with private jet flights, a yacht, homes, automobiles, 
 credit card expenses, country club memberships, and life insurance policies.  As CFO, Dean 
 approved Info’s payment of Gupta’s personal expenses and signed and certified Info’s false 
 Forms 10-K for 2005 and 2006 which incorporated information from Info’s proxy statements.  
 The complaint also alleged that Dean aided and abetted the filing of Info’s false Form 10-K for 
 2003 which incorporated information from Info’s proxy statements. 

                                               2 
                                                 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                               IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Dean ’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Dean is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
       B.      After three years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                      (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and  
 
                      (d)     Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
      
       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant provided that his state CPA 
                                                3 
                                                 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

license is current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards 
of accountancy. The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the 
preparation or review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the 
Commission provided that his state CPA license or certificate is current and he has resolved all 
other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy. However, if state 
licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an 
application on its other merits. The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition 
to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, 
professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                    Secretary 
 

                                                4 
                                                 
