---------------------Page 1---------------------

                       UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                   Before the 

                SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

                                         
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 60400 / July 30, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3026 / July 30, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13565 
 
                                          ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
In the Matter of                          DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT 
                                          TO SECTION 21C OF THE 
     HELMERICH & PAYNE,                   SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 
     INC.,                                1934, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                          IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST 
Respondent.                               ORDER  
 
 
 
 
 
                                       I.  
                                         
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate 
that cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Helmerich & Payne, 
Inc. (“H&P or “Respondent”). 
 
                                         
                                      II.  
                                         
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted 
an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  
Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on  
behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting 
or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the 
subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry 
of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist 
Order (“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                           

 
                                           III. 
                                             
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  1
                                                                                  that: 

 
                                       Summary  
                                             
       1.      This recommendation concerns violations of the books and records and 
internal controls provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) by H&P, 
through two of its second-tier wholly-owned subsidiaries, Helmerich & Payne 
(Argentina) Drilling Company and Helmerich & Payne de Venezuela, C.A.  From 2003 
through 2008, H&P Argentina and H&P Venezuela made approximately $185,673 in 
improper payments directly – or indirectly through third-party customs brokers – to 
foreign customs authorities in connection with the international passage of drilling 
equipment parts into and out of Latin American drilling sites.  These payments were 
made with the purpose and effect of avoiding potential delays typically associated with 
the international transport of drilling parts.  H&P avoided costs in the estimated amount 
of approximately $320,604, as a direct result of the improper payments by its 
subsidiaries.  None of the improper payments was accurately reflected in H&P’s books 
and records, nor was H&P’s system of internal accounting controls adequate at the time  
to prevent and detect the improper payments.   

                                             
                                      Respondent  
  
       2.     H&P is a Delaware corporation headquartered in Tulsa, Oklahoma.  H&P 
is the holding company for Helmerich & Payne International Drilling Co., an 
international drilling contractor with land and offshore operations primarily in the United 
States and South America.  H&P’s common stock is regi   stered with the Commission 
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act, and is listed on the New York Stock 
Exchange.  H&P, through its subsidiaries, provided oil drilling rigs, equipment, and 
personnel on a contract basis to international and national oil companies, primarily in the 
United States and South America.    

                                Other Relevant Entities  
                                             
       3.      Helmerich & Payne (Argentina) Drilling Company (“H&P Argentina”), a 
wholly-owned second-tier subsidiary of H&P, was incorporated in Oklahoma and has its 
principal administrative office in Buenos Aires, Argentina.  H&P Argentina operates 
drilling rigs in Argentina.  H&P Argentina’s financial results are components of the 
consolidated financial statements included in H&P’s filings with the Commission. 

                                                 
1 
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer and are not binding on any other  
       person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
                                            2 

  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                                         

                      4.     Helmerich & Payne de Venezuela, C.A. (“H&P Venezuela”), a 
              wholly-owned second-tier subsidiary of H&P, was incorporated in Venezuela and has its 
              principal administrative office in Anaco, Venezuela.  H&P Venezuela operates drilling 
              rigs in Venezuela.  H&P Venezuela’s financial results are components of the 
              consolidated financial statements included in H&P’s filings with the Commission. 

                                                        Facts  
               
              A.      Payments to Argentine Customs Officials  

                      5.     In connection with the operation of its oil rigs in Argentina, H&P, through 
              its operating subsidiaries, imported and exported equipment and materials related to the 
              operation of the rigs.  Such equipment and materials were inspected by the Argentine 
              customs service and were subject to duties owed under the laws of Argentina.  From 2004 
              through 2008, H&P Argentina paid Argentine customs officials approximately $166,000 
              to permit the importation and exportation of equipment and materials without required 
              certifications, to expedite the importation of equipment and materials, and to allow the 
              importation of materials that could not be imported under Argentine law.  

                      6.     H&P Argentina made most of these improper payments indirectly through 
              customs brokers.  After having made the improper payments on behalf of H&P 
              Argentina, the customs brokers invoiced H&P Argentina for their brokerage services, 
              including as part of the invoiced amount the improper payments to the Argentine customs 
              officials.  The improper payments were falsely, or at least misleadingly, described as 
              attributable to, for instance, “additional assessments,” “extra costs,” or “extraordinary  
              expenses.”  By making these improper payments to Argentine government officials, 
              H&P, through H&P Argentina, avoided more than an estimated $186,000 in expenses it 
              would have otherwise incurred if it had properly imported and exported the equipment 
              and materials. 

              B.      Payments to Venezuelan Customs Officials  

                      7.     In connection with the operation of its oil rigs in Venezuela, H&P, through 
              its operating subsidiaries, imported and exported equipment and materials related to the 
              operation of the rigs and support of its personnel.  Such equipment and materials were 
              inspected by the Venezuelan customs service and were subject to duties owed under the 
              laws of Venezuela.  From 2003 through 2008, H&P Venezuela paid Venezuelan customs 
              officials approximately $19,673 either to permit the importation and exportation of 
              equipment and materials that were not in compliance with Venezuelan importation and 
              exportation regulations or to secure a partial inspection, rather than a full inspection, of 
              the goods being imported.  
                
                      8.     H&P Venezuela made the improper payments indirectly through customs 
              brokers.  After having made the improper payments on behalf of H&P Venezuela, the 
              customs brokers invoiced H&P Venezuela for their brokerage services, including as part 
              of the invoiced amount the improper payments to the Venezuelan customs officials.  The 
              improper payments were falsely, or at least misleadingly, described as attributable to, for 

                                                          3 

                
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                                                                            

instance, “urgent processing,” “urgent dispatch,” or “customs processing.”  By making 
these improper payments to Venezuelan government officials, H&P, through H&P 
Venezuela, avoided more than an estimated $134,000 in expenses it would have 
otherwise incurred if it had properly imported and exported the equipment and materials. 

C.     Discovery of Improper Payments and Internal Investigation  

       9.      In early 2008, as part of an effort to improve compliance with the FCPA, 
H&P designed and implemented a stand-alone set of FCPA policies and procedures.     2
                                                                                       In 
conjunction with this effort, H&P also designed and conducted worldwide FCPA training 
for its key employees.  At one such training session in May 2008, an employee 
voluntarily disclosed that potentially improper payments had been made by H&P 
Argentina, through a customs broker, to Argentine customs officials.  This information 
was relayed to H&P’s corporate headquarters in Oklahoma, and came to the attention of 
H&P’s general counsel in July 2008.  In response, H&P hired outside FCPA counsel and 
independent forensic accountants to conduct an internal investigation of its subsidiaries’ 
customs payment practices in a number of Latin American countries.    
 
       10.     The internal investigation uncovered fifty improper payments to 
government customs officials in Argentina and Venezuela from 2003 through 2008, 
totaling approximately $185,673.  In Argentina, the nature of the improper payments was 
disguised in invoices by using vague-sounding line items such as “additional 
assessments,” “extra costs,” and “extraordinary expenses,” without any additional 
documentation to support the descriptions.  Similarly, in Venezuela, the nature of the 
improper payments was disguised in invoices by using descriptions such as “urgent 
processing,” “urgent dispatch,” or “customs processing.”  In October 2008, H&P 
voluntarily reported its initial findings to the staff. 
        
                                     Legal Analysis  

       11.     The FCPA, enacted in 1977, added Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(A) to 
require public companies to make and keep books, records, and accounts which, in 
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the 
assets of the issuer, and added Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(B) to require such 
companies to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to  
provide reasonable assurances that: (i) transactions are executed in accordance with 
management’s general or specific authorization; and (ii) transactions are recorded as 
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally 
accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such statements, and to 
maintain accountability for assets.  15  U.S.C. §§ 78m(b)(2)(A) and 78m(b)(2)(B). 

                                                 
2 
       H&P’s Corporate Code of Business Ethics historically had contained anti-bribery provisions, but    
       H&P decided as part of its focus on FCPA compli ance to draft and implement a stand-alone set of 
       policies and procedures regarding the FCPA. 
 

                                            4 

  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                                                                            

       12.     As detailed above, H&P’s books, records, and accounts did not properly 
reflect the improper payments made by H&P Argentina and H&P Venezuela to customs 
officials.  As a result, H&P violated Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(A).  

       13.     H&P also failed to devise or maintain sufficient internal controls to ensure 
that H&P Argentina and H&P Venezuela complied with the FCPA and to ensure that the 
payments those subsidiaries made to foreign officials were accurately reflected on its 
books and records.  As a result, H&P violated Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(B). 

                      H&P’s Remedial Efforts and Cooperation  

       In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts 
promptly undertaken by Respondent, Respondent’s voluntary disclosure of these matters 
to the Commission, and cooperation afforded the Commission staff. 

                                           IV.  

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the 
sanctions agreed to in Respondent H&P’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 

       (i)	      Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent H&P cease and 
               desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations 
               of Exchange Act Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B);  

       (ii)	     Respondent shall, within ten days of the entry of this Order, pay 
               disgorgement of $320,604 and prejudgment interest of $55,077.22 to the 
               United States Treasury.  If timely payment is not made, additional interest 
               shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600.  Payment shall be: (A) 
               made by United States postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s 
               check, or bank money order; (B) made payable to the Securities and 
               Exchange Commission; (C) hand-delivered or mailed to the Office of 
               Financial Management, Securities and Exchange Commission, Operations 
               Center, 6432 General Green Way, Stop 0-3, Alexandria, VA 22312; and 
               (D) submitted under cover of a letter that identifies Helmerich & Payne, 
               Inc. as a Respondent in these proceedings, the file number of these 
               proceedings, a copy of which cover letter and money order or check shall 
               be sent to Cheryl J. Scarboro, Associate Director, Division of 
               Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., N.E., 
               Washington, D.C. 20549. 

 

       By the Commission. 

        Elizabeth M. Murphy 
        Secretary                                                       

                                            5 

  
