---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED STATES                                              OF AMERICA 
 before the 
                                            SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 61301 / January 6, 2010 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3096 / January 6, 2010 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13737 
                                                      
                                                      :  
 :  
 :   
        In the Matter of                                         :             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                                                     :             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
                            SCOTT T. VEECH, CPA,    :             102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                                                     :             PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
            Respondent.                  :     IMPO                   SING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                               :      
                                               :      
____________________________________ :              
  
 
 
                                                        I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Scott T. 
Veech (“Respondent” or “Veech”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice. 1
             
                                                          
                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in paragraph III.B.3. below, which are admitted, 
Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to 
Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
                     1.           Veech, age 47, has been a certified public accountant licensed to practice in 
the State of Pennsylvania.  He served as Chief Financial Officer of Merge Healthcare Inc., f/k/a 
Merge Technologies, Inc. (“Merge”) from July 2002 until his resignation in July 2006. 
        
                     2.           Merge was, at all relevant times, a Wisconsin corporation with its principal 
place of business in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.  Merge develops medical imaging and information 
management software and delivers related services.  At all relevant times, Merge’s common stock 
was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (“Exchange Act”), and traded on the NASDAQ Small Cap or National Market. 
 
                     3.           On November 4, 2009, the Commission filed a complaint against Veech in 
SEC v. Merge Healthcare, et al. (Civil Action No. 2:09-cv-01036).  On November 17, 2009, the 
court entered an order permanently enjoining Veech, by consent, from future violations of Section 
17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 and Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 
10b-5, 13a-14, 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder, and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 
thereunder.  Veech was also ordered to pay $180,000 in disgorgement of ill-gotten gains and 
$50,000 in prejudgment interest; and a $50,000 civil money penalty.  Veech neither admitted nor 
denied the allegations of the complaint. 
 
   4. The Commission’s complaint alle                   ged, among other things, that Veech 
participated in a fraudulent scheme which resulted in Merge filing materially false and misleading 
financial statements in the company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal years ended 
December 31, 2002, December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2004, and in the company’s quarterly 
reports on Form 10-Q for the first three quarters of fiscal year 2005.  The Complaint alleged that 
Veech engaged in improper accounting practices that materially increased Merge’s annual and 
quarterly revenue and net income in a departure from generally accepted accounting principles.  
These practices included, among other things, causing Merge to recognize revenue improperly on 
transactions in which Merge promised specified future software enhancements to customers. 

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

        
 
 
                                                 IV. 
                                                    
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Veech’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
              A.          Veech is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.  
 
              B.          After three years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                                         (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Respondent, or the registered                           public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

   (c) Respondent has resolved all di                           sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
   (d) Respondent acknowledges                              his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
      
                                                   3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

          C.       The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth M. Murphy 
       Secretary 

                                                                   4 
