---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED                                 STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                           the 

 SECURITIES                          AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 64277 / April 8, 2011 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3264 / April 8, 2011 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14333 
                                                     ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                    ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-
                                              AND-DESIST PROC              EEDINGS PURSUANT 
In the Matter of                                     TO SECTIONS 4C AND 21C OF THE 
                                                     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
       TROY F. NILSON, CPA                           AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                     COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
Respondent.                                          MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                                     REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-
                                                     AND-DESIST ORDER  
 
 
                                                     
 
                                                I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Troy F. 
Nilson, CPA ( “Respondent” or “Nilson”) pursuant to Sections 4C  1
                                                                  and 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.2 
          
                                                 
1 
       Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:    
 
       The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the privilege                       
of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way,  if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the   
requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be   lacking in character or integrity, or to have engaged in  
unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have   willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the 
violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.   
 
2 
       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that:   
 
       The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before  
it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct.                                      
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
                                                  
                                                  
                                               II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him, and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making 
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth 
below. 
                                                  
                                               III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  3
                                                                                  that: 
 
   A.   SUMMARY  
 
           1.   From year-end 2004 through the first quarter of 2008, Powder River Petroleum 
International, Inc. (“Powder River” or “the company”) improperly accounted for over $43 million 
in proceeds from conveyances of fractional working interests in oil-and-gas leases to investors in 
Asia.  In particular, Powder River immediately recognized revenue from the conveyances, despite 
the fact that it had promised the Asian working interest investors a guaranteed return until they 
recouped their initial investment.  In addition, Powder River also improperly recorded assets it did 
not own or that were stated in excess of net realizable value.  As a result, Powder River’s financial 
statements did not present fairly, in all material respects, the company’s financial position, 
operating results, and cash flows in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.  
Powder River materially overstated its revenues by 7% to 2,417%, its pre-tax income by 18% to 
441%, and its assets by 7% to 48% in its Commission filings during the applicable period. 
            
           2.   Respondent was the engagement partner on the audit and review of Powder River’s  
financial statements for year-end 2007 and the first quarter of 2008.  Respondent failed to conduct 
these engagements in accordance with Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) 
Standards.  He also caused Chisholm, Bierwolf, Nilson and Morrill, LLC’s failure to have 
procedures in place to detect fraud and to evaluate Powder River’s ability to continue as a going  
concern.  His failures as an auditor were a cause of Powder River’s filing of a false and misleading   
2007 Form 10-K and a first-quarter 2008 Form 10-Q.  Accordingly, Respondent  engaged in improper  
professional conduct, violated Sections 10A(a)(1) and 10A(a)(3) of the Exchange Act, and was a 

                                                 
3 
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any    
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   
                                                2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
cause of Powder River’s violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13 and 
12b-20 thereunder.  
            
   B.   RESPONDENT  
            
           3.   Troy F. Nilson is a certified public accountant licensed in the state of Utah          and has 
been an audit partner at Chisholm, Bierwolf, Nilson and Morrill, LLC (“Chisholm Bierwolf”) from 
2004 to the present.  Nilson was the engagement partner on Powder River’s audit and quarterly 
review for year-end 2007 and the first quarter of 2008, and supervised Chisholm Bierwolf’s  
engagements to audit and review Powder River’s financial statements.   
            
   C.   RELEVANT ENTITIES 
 
           4.   Powder River Petroleum International, Inc.                        is an Oklahoma corporation 
headquartered in Calgary, Canada.  The company’s common stock is registered with the  
Commission pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12(g).  Powder River’s shares are currently quoted  
on Pink OTC Markets, Inc.  In  July 2008, an Oklahoma district court granted a temporary 
restraining order and appointed a receiver for Powder River in connection with a complaint filed 
by certain Asian investors.4
                            In December 2008, Powder River filed for bankruptcy.  5
                                                                                    It has not 
restated its financial statements, other than a restatement of its 2007 quarterly financial statements  
included in its year-end 2007 financial statements, nor has it filed any reports with the Commission 
since September 17, 2008. 
        
           5.   Chisholm, Bierwolf, Nilson & Morrill, LLC, a PCAOB-registered audit firm with 
offices in Bountiful and Layton, Utah, and its predecessors, have been Powder River’s auditor 
since 2001. 
        
   D.   FACTS 
    
       Oil-and-Gas Working Interest Conveyances   
            
           6.   From year-end 2004 through the first quarter of 2008, Powder River offered and 
sold working interests in its oil-and-gas leases through an independent sales agent to investors in 
Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia.  Powder River’s contracts with Asian investors provided that 
they would receive guaranteed payments yielding an annual minimum of 9%, and in some cases 
more, beginning approximately six months after the date of investment until investors reached the 
“break-even” point, i.e. when their principal had been repaid (the “guaranteed payments”).  
Thereafter, investors received lease production payments based on their respective working 
interests.  By the second quarter of 2007, Powder River’s guaranteed payments exceeded not only 
the investors’ share of oil-and-gas production revenues, but also Powder River’s total production 
                                                 
4 
       See  Chang v. Powder River Petroleum Int’l, Inc. (Okla. Dist. Ct. July 14, 2008) (No. CJ-2008-4855). 
 
5 
       See  In re Powder River Petroleum Int’l, Inc. (Bankr. W.D. Okla. Dec. 12, 2008) (No. 08-15613).  
 
                                                3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
revenues.  After that date, Powder River used proceeds from working interest conveyances to new 
investors to fund guaranteed payments to earlier investors. 
            
           7.   From year-end 2004 through the first quarter of 2008, Powder River improperly 
recognized as revenue over $33.5 million in proceeds from conveyances of the working interests to 
investors.  These conveyances were in substance and should have been reported by Powder River  
as borrowings, not revenue (see Financial Accounting Standards No. 19, Financial Accounting and 
Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Companies, paragraph 43).  The investors’ contractual right 
to receive guaranteed payments until their “break-even point” represented, in substance, a loan of 
capital to Powder River at a guaranteed 9% minimum rate of return.  As a result of  Powder River’s  
improper accounting, the company materially overstated its revenues in its Forms 10-QSB, 10-Q, 
10-KSB, and 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 through the quarter ended March 31, 
2008 by 7% to 2,417% and its net pre-tax income by 18% to 441%. 
        
           8.   Respondent supervised Powder River’s 2007 audit and first-quarter 2008 review.  
In the second quarter of 2007, when the guaranteed payments exceeded Powder River’s entire oil-
and-gas receipts, the company began recording the guaranteed payments on its balance sheet as an 
asset labeled “pre-paid production payments.”  During the 2007 audit, Respondent examined some  
of the contracts underlying the working interest conveyances, which described the guaranteed 
payments, and determined that Powder River’s accounting for those payments as an asset was 
improper.  Respondent failed, however, to consider whether, as a result of the guaranteed payment 
provisions, the conveyances should have been  reported as borrowings rather than sales. 
             
           9.    The company filed a Form 8-K on March 17, 2008, which disclosed the 
guaranteed payments and indicated that the company’s second and third quarter 2007 financial 
statements could not be relied upon.  When Powder River filed its 2007 Form 10-K and first- 
quarter 2008 Form 10-Q, the company disclosed the guaranteed payments as a future commitment 
in its financial statement footnotes.  As a result  of Respondent’s failure to consider the nature of 
the guaranteed payments on Powder River’s revenue recognition, however, the company continued 
to improperly report the proceeds from its working interest conveyances as revenues.   
        
           10.  Furthermore, Respondent was aware that Powder River’s guaranteed payments 
exceeded the company’s total oil-and-gas revenues for 2007.  Yet, he failed to include a “going 
concern” paragraph in Chisholm Bierwolf audit opinion, despite substantial reason to doubt that 
Powder River’s future oil-and-gas revenues, which were only $3.3 million in 2007, would be  
sufficient to cover the $6.1 million of guaranteed payments due in 2008. 
        
 Inflated Assets       
 
           11.  Powder River reported assets that it did not own, that did not exist, or that it should 
have written off in its 2007 Form 10-K and first-quarter 2008 Form 10-Q financial statements.  
During the company’s 2007 audit, Respondent failed to conduct sufficient audit procedures to 
support the recorded oil-and-gas and other assets;  otherwise he would have discovered information 
that indicated a significant amount of such assets should be removed from Powder River’s 

                                               4
  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 
financial statements.  As a result, the company overstated its assets by 45% and 48% in its 
financial statements for year-end 2007 and first-quarter 2008, respectively. 
 
           12.   In particular, Powder River improperly included as assets in its year-end 2007 and 
first-quarter 2008 financial statements two oil-and-gas leases it had agreed, but failed, to acquire.  
Specifically, in 2005, Powder River made $500,000 in nonrefundable payments as a part of an 
agreement to acquire a New Mexico oil-and-gas lease for $5 million, but by August 2005 it had 
defaulted on the terms of the agreement and lost its rights to the lease.  Nonetheless, Powder River 
continued to report the lease as an asset on its balance sheet, including in its financial statements 
for year-end 2007 and the first quarter of 2008, which was its last quarterly report.  Similarly, 
Powder River made nonrefundable payments totaling $1.5 million in late 2006 and early 2007 as 
part of an agreement to acquire a Texas oil-and-gas lease for $6.5 million.  The company reported 
the lease, along with an associated note payable, as assets on its  balance sheet from year-end 2006 
onward.  In reality, the agreement was never consummated, no note agreement was ever executed, 
and by the end of 2007, Powder River had forfeited its payments. 
            
           13.  During Powder River’s 2007 audit, Respondent failed to perform procedures to 
verify the existence and ownership of the New Mexico and Texas leases, despite the size of the  
assets and the fact that the company had not paid any significant development costs or taxes on the  
properties in 2007.  Respondent did not review the oil-and-gas lease purchase documents or any 
promissory note agreement on the Texas lease.  During the 2007 audit, Respondent requested 
confirmation of the purported $5 million promissory note on the Texas lease, but failed to perform 
sufficient alternative procedures when the confirmation was not returned.    
            
           14.  Powder River listed a $1.2 million item as a “loan receivable” on the company’s 
balance sheet in its 2007 Form 10-K financial statements.  In prior periods, this item was reported 
as a cash or cash equivalent.  Despite this unexplained change in accounting treatment and the fact 
that no payments had ever been made on the loan receivable, Respondent  failed to obtain 
documentation of the purported loan receivable or to perform any procedures to evaluate the 
collectability of the loan.  Further, Respondent failed to identify that the loan receivable had not 
been disclosed as a related party transaction in compliance with Statement of Financial Accounting 
Standard No. 57, Related Party Disclosures. 
            
       Failure to Assess the Work of a Professional  

           15.  At year-end 2007, oil-and-gas properties represented approximately 82% of Powder 
River’s total assets.  The company, however, failed to obtain new or updated reserve reports in  
2007, instead relying on the reports that it had used in connection with the 2006 audit.  In auditing 
Powder River’s 2007 financial statements, Respondent relied on the work performed in the audit of 
Powder River’s 2006 financial statements, without performing procedures to test or verify the scope 
or adequacy of that prior audit work or the 2006 rese rve reports.  Respondent did nothing to:  a)  
evaluate the qualifications of the petroleum engineer who prepared the oil-and-gas reserve reports;  
b) understand the nature of the work performed in preparing the oil-and-gas reserve reports; and c)  
evaluate the petroleum engineer’s relationship to Powder River.  Respondent knew or should have   
known that Powder River’s failure to obtain new or updated reserve reports raised questions as to:   
                                                5
  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 
a) the qualifications of the engineer who prepared the reserve reports; and b) the adequacy of the 
reserve reports to support disclosures made in the financial statements.  Accordingly, Respondent 
failed to adhere to the guidance contained in AU 336, Using the Work of a Specialist, and failed to  
obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to support Chisholm Bierwolf’s report on Powder  
River’s 2007 financial statements.  
        
       Creation of Audit Documents  
        
           16.  Prior to a PCAOB inspection in 2007, Respondent created and back-dated and 
directed Chisholm Bierwolf’s staff to create and back-date audit planning and other documents  
more than 45 days after the documentation completion dates for the 2006 audit of Powder River’s 
financial statements.  Respondent and his firm’s staff failed to document in the workpapers the dates 
that these changes were made, the names of the persons who made them, and the reasons for adding 
information.  They also failed to notify the PCAOB  inspection team that changes had been made to 
the audit files without appropriately documenting the date  of those changes.  As a result, 
Respondent failed to comply with PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 3, Audit Documentation, in  
addition to violating PCAOB rules.   Respondent produced those documents to SEC staff during its  
investigation, without disclosing that they had been back-dated or created after document  
completion deadlines. 
            
       Failure to Conduct Audits in Accordance with PCAOB Standards        
 
           17.  As the foregoing conduct demonstrates, Respondent failed to conduct Powder 
River’s 2007 audit in accordance with PCAOB Standards and Rules.  Specifically, Respondent  
failed to:  
 
                      a.      Adequately plan the audit and properly supervise assistants, under 
AU 311, ¶8, Planning & Supervision. 
                       
                      b.      Gather sufficient competent evidential matter, under AU 326, ¶13, 
Audit Evidence, to support the characterization of Powder River’s revenue and his conclusions on 
company assets;  
 
                      c.       Exercise due professional care and skepticism, under AU 230, ¶¶9, 
25, Due Professional Care in the Performance of Work, as illustrated by repeated failures to 
review underlying documentation, undue reliance on management, and failure to respond 
appropriately to “red flags.”  
                       
                      d.      Perform sufficient alternative procedures, under AU 330, ¶31, The 
Confirmation Process, when his firm did not receive proper confirmations of a promissory note 
and a loan receivable;  
        
                      e.       Evaluate, under AU 341, ¶3, The Auditor's Consideration of an 
Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern, Powder River’s ability to continue as a going 

                                               6
  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 
concern even though the fact that Powder River’s total revenues were significantly less than its 
guaranteed payment obligations should have raised substantial doubt about its ability to continue as 
a going concern;  
                       
                      f.       Consider whether, under AU 336, ¶¶8, 9, Using the Work of a 
Specialist, Powder River’s petroleum engineers possessed the necessary qualifications for their 
work to be used as audit evidence; and 
                       
                      g.      Properly prepare audit documentation, under PCAOB Auditing 
Standard No. 3, ¶15, Audit Documentation, as demonstrated by after-the-fact creation and back­
dating of audit planning documents and checklists at Respondent’s direction.  
                       
           18.  Furthermore, Respondent did not have procedures in place for the 2007 audit 
designed to provide reasonable assurance of detecting illegal acts that would have a direct and 
material effect on Powder River’s  financial statement amounts, as required by Section 10A(a)(1) of 
the Exchange Act.  This was demonstrated by Respondent’s failure to recognize Powder River’s  
improper revenue recognition, his failure to identify assets improperly included on its balance 
sheet, and his reliance on out-dated reserve reports that failed to support Powder River’s reported 
reserves. 
            
           19.  Respondent also did not include in the 2007 audit an evaluation of whether there 
was substantial doubt about the ability of Powder River to continue as a going concern during the 
ensuing fiscal year, as required by Section 10A(a)(3) of the Exchange Act.  This is demonstrated 
by his failure to recognize that Powder River’s total revenues in 2007 were significantly less than   
its guaranteed payment obligations for the following year, which should have raised substantial 
doubt about the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
 
   E.   VIOLATIONS  
            
           20.  Exchange Act Section 10A(a)(1) requires each audit to include procedures designed 
to provide reasonable assurance of detecting illegal acts that would have a direct and material 
effect on the determination of financial statement amounts, and Section 10A(a)(3) requires each 
audit to include an evaluation of whether there is substantial doubt about the ability of the issuer to 
continue as a going concern during the  ensuing fiscal year.  No showing of scienter is necessary to 
establish a violation of Section 10A.  See SEC v. Solucorp Indus., Ltd., 197 F. Supp. 2d 4 
(S.D.N.Y. 2002). 
            
           21.  As discussed above, Respondent violated Sections 10A(a)(1) and 10A(a)(3) by 
failing to have adequate procedures in place during Powder River’s 2007 audit to: 1) reasonably 
assure detection of illegal acts, such as Powder River’s material overstatement of its revenues, its 
inclusion of improperly recorded assets on its balance sheet, and its materially overstated oil-and­
gas reserves, and its payments of later working interest conveyance proceeds to earlier working 
interest investors, which materially affected the determination of financial statement amounts; and 

                                                7
  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 
2) to evaluate whether there was substantial doubt about Powder River’s ability to continue as a 
going concern.   
        
           22.  Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13, and 12b-20 thereunder, 
require every issuer of a security registered purs uant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act file with 
the Commission information, documents, and annual and quarterly reports as the Commission 
may require, and mandate that periodic reports contain such further material information as may 
be necessary to make the required statements not misleading.  The obligation to file such reports                                    
embodies the requirement that they be true and correct.  See, e.g., SEC v. Savoy Indus., Inc., 587 
F.2d 1149, 1165 (D.C. Cir. 1978), cert. denied, 440 U.S. 913 (1979).   
        
           23.  As discussed above, during year-end 2007 and the first quarter of 2008, 
Respondent’s failures were a cause of Powder River’s filing of a false and misleading 2007 Form  
10-K and first-quarter 2008 Form 10-Q.  Accordingly, Respondent was a cause of Powder River’s 
violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13, and 12b-20 thereunder. 
        
           24.  Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Section 4C of the 
Exchange Act authorize the Commission to censure or deny, temporarily or permanently, the  
privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission to accountants who are found to have  
engaged in improper professional conduct.  Under Rule 102(e)(1)(iv), the term “improper 
professional conduct” means, in part, “repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting 
in a violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice 
before the Commission.”  Respondent’s actions were unreasonable and failed to conform to 
applicable professional standards.  Accordingly, his conduct supports an action under Rules 
102(e)(1)(ii) and 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) of the Rules of Practice.  
        
   F.   FINDINGS  
        
           25.  Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent violated Sections 
10A(a)(1) and 10A(a)(3) of the Exchange Act, and was a cause of Powder River’s violations of 
Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13, and 12b-20 promulgated thereunder. 
        
           26.  Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent engaged in 
improper professional conduct pursuant to Rules 102(e)(1)(ii) and 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
   G.   UNDERTAKING 
 
           27.  Cooperation. Respondent undertakes to cooperate fully with the Commission with 
respect to any matter relating to the Commission's investigation of  Powder River or its current or 
former officers, directors, employees, or auditors, including but not limited to any litigation or 
other proceeding related to or resulting from that  investigation.  Such cooperation shall include, but  
is not limited to, upon reasonable notice and without subpoena:  
            

                                               8
  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

 
              a.      Producing any document, record, or other tangible evidence reasonably 
requested by Commission staff in connection with the Commission's investigation, litigation or 
other proceedings; 

              b.      Providing all information reasonably requested by Commission staff in 
connection with the Commission's investigation; and  

              c.       Attending and providing truthful statements at any meeting, interview, 
testimony, deposition, trial, or other legal proceeding reasonably requested by the Commission 
staff. 
               
       28.    In determining whether to accept the Offer, the Commission has considered these
  
 undertakings. 

 
                                              IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
   A.   Respondent shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future 
violations of Sections 10A(a)(1) and 10A(a)(3) of the Exchange Act.  
 
   B.   Respondent shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13, and 12b-20 
promulgated thereunder.  
 
   C.   Respondent is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.  
 
   D.   After five years from the date of this Order, Respondent may request that the Commission 
consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief Accountant)  
to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as:  
 
       1.      A preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, of 
any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such an 
application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
    
       2.      An independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that: 
    

                                               9
  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

 
                a.       Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such 
registration continues to be effective; 
             
                b.       Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
             
                c.       Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the PCAOB, and has 
complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the PCAOB (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
             
                d.       Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Respondent 
appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the PCAOB, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
 
    E.   The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 
 
 By the Commission.            
 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                         M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                    

                                                    10
  
---------------------Page 11---------------------

 
                                             Service List  
 
       Rule 141 of the Commission's Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or another duly 
authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order Instituting Public 
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making 
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order ("Order"), on the 
Respondent and his legal agent. 
 
       The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to 
notice:  
 
Honorable Brenda P. Murray                              
Chief Administrative Law Judge                          
Securities and Exchange Commission  
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-2557                 
 
Shoshana Thoma-Isgur, Esq. 
Fort Worth Regional Office                               
Securities and Exchange Commission              
801 Cherry Street, Suite 1900  
Fort Worth, TX 76102                               
  
Mr. Troy F. Nilson                                
c/o Douglas E. Griffith, Esq. 
Kesler & Rust 
68 South Main Street, 2nd Floor  
Salt Lake City, UT 84101                                    
                                                      
Douglas E. Griffith, Esq. 
Kesler & Rust 
68 South Main Street, 2nd Floor  
Salt Lake City, UT 84101 
(Counsel for Troy F. Nilson)  
 
 

                                                  11
  
