---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                       

                                               
                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 67988 / October 4, 2012 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3412 / October 4, 2012 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-12126 

                            : 
                           : 
In the Matter of              ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           : 
                              REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
                           : 
Gilbert Bergsman, CPA         BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           : 
                           : 
                           
        
       On December 15, 2005,  Gilbert Bergsman, CPA (“Bergsman”) was denied the privilege 
of appearing or practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against Bergsman pursuant to Rule 
102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                               Bergsman  consented to the entry of the 
December 15, 2005 order without admitting or denying the findings therein.  This order is issued 
in response to Bergsman’s application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the 
Commission as an accountant. 
        
       Bergsman was found to have engaged in improper professional conduct with respect to 
the audit of the financial statements of eSafetyworld, Inc. (“eSafety”) for its fiscal year ended 
June 30, 2001 and the reviews of the financial statements for the quarters ended September 30, 
2000, December 31, 2000, and March 31, 2001 by Eichler Bergsman & Co., LLP.  Bergsman 
served as the engagement partner on the eSafety engagement.   During this time, Bergsman 
engaged in improper professional conduct by repeatedly engaging in unreasonable conduct, 
resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards that indicated a lack of competence 
to practice before the Commission.  Specifically, Bergsman (i) failed to make adequate inquiries 
into eSafety’s new revenue stream and the valuation thereof during the first three quarters of 
2001; (ii) allowed the reports on eSafety’s quarterly financial statements to remain outstanding 
despite eSafety’s failure to reverse certain consulting revenues recognized during the first three 
quarters of 2001; (iii) did not confirm accounts receivable from eSafety’s consulting clients, and 
                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2354 dated December 15, 2005.  Bergsman was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after one year upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                             

did not note or require disclosure of eSafety’s related party relationships with eSafety’s 
consulting clients; (iv) did not appropriately audit or require correction of eSafety’s deferral of 
certain administrative costs; and (v) did not obtain sufficient competent evidence to conclude 
that certain cash advances were loans or investments, which eSafety improperly recorded as 
assets rather than expenses. 
 
       Bergsman has met all of the c onditions set forth in the December 15, 2005 order and, in 
his capacity as an independent accountant, has stated that he will comply with all requirements of 
the Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, including, but not 
limited to all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and 
quality control standards.  In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for 
the preparation or review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the 
Commission, Bergsman     attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the 
independent audit committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner 
acceptable to the Commission, while practicing before the Commission in this capacity.   
        
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
        On the basis of the information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed 
to by Bergsman, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the December 15, 2005 order 
denying him the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, 
that no information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, 
integrity, professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be 
a basis for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of 
Practice, and that Bergsman, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit 
committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, in his practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial 
statements required to be filed with the Commission, and that Bergsman    , by undertaking to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight 
Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, 
concurring partner reviews and quality control standards, in his practice before the Commission 
as an independent accountant has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is 
accordingly, 
 
 
 
 

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R . § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                       

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Gilbert Bergsman, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                            
                                            
                                                           
                                                           
                                                          Elizabeth M. Murphy  
                                                          Secretary  
 
