---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                               UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                             before the 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  66312 / February 2, 2012 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  3362 / February 2, 2012 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-14737 
 
                                                                        
                                                                              :              
                                              :              
                                              :               
       In the Matter of                       :       ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                   :  PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE                   
               DALE SHAFER, CPA,         :            102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                   :  PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
       Respondent.                               :    IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                   :              
                                                   :              
____________________________________ :              
                                                             
 
                                                 I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Dale 
Shafer (“Respondent” or “Shafer”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1
            
                                                 II. 
 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section 4 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
              1.      Dale Bruce Shafer, age 42, is and has been a certified public accountant 
licensed since 1996 to practice in the State of Ohio.  He served as interim Chief Financial Officer 
and Senior Vice President of Oak Hill Financial, Inc. (“Oak Hill”) from December 2006 until May 
2008. 
        
              2.      Oak Hill was, at all relevant times, an Ohio corporation with its principal 
place of business in Jackson, Ohio.  Oak Hill was a bank.  At all relevant times, Oak Hill’s common 
stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and traded on the NASDAQ National Market under the symbol OAKF. 
 
              3.      WesBanco Inc., is a holding company incorporated in West Virginia with 
its principal executive offices in Wheeling, West Virginia.  Its common stock is registered with 
the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act, and it trades on the Nasdaq 
under the ticker symbol WSBC. 
 
              4.      On January 19, 2012, the Commission filed a complaint against Shafer in 
SEC v. Dale Shafer, et al. (Civil Action No. 1:12-CV-62 S.D. Ohio).  On January 27, 2012, the 
court entered an order permanently enjoining Shafer, by consent, from future violations of Section 
10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.  Shafer was also ordered to pay $33,484.08 
jointly and severally in disgorgement of ill-gotten gains and $5,473.73 in prejudgment interest; and 
a $33,484.08 civil money penalty. 
 
                     5.           The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Shafer 
owed a fiduciary duty of trust and confidence to the shareholders of Oak Hill to maintain the 
confidentiality of the information entrusted to him about the merger with WesBanco.  Shafer 
knowingly or recklessly breached his duty by communicating this information to his cousin and 
in doing so he thereby received a personal benefit.   
 
                                              IV. 
                                                 

                                               2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Shafer  ’s Offer. 
 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Shafer is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
       B.      After five years from the date of this order, Shafer may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
               1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his     practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                            (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                             (b)        Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
 
                             (c)         Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                             (d)        Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
 
       C.          The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 

                                                 3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with      the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The             
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
        By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                                                     Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                                                     Secretary 
 

                                                     4  
