---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                      Before the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 60238 / July 2, 2009 
 
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940 
Release No. 28809 / July 2, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3005 / July 2, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-13537 
 
                                             
In the Matter of                           ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
                                           DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
      DAVID LLOYD PELLS,                   SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                           EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND SECTION 
Respondent.                                9(f) OF THE INVESTMENT COMPANY 
                                            ACT OF 1940, MAKING FINDINGS AND 
                                           IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST  
                                           ORDER  
  
                                          I.  
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and he reby are, instituted pursuant to  Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and Section 9(f) of the Investment Company Act of 1940  
(“Company Act”) against David Lloyd Pells (“Pells” or “Respondent”).   
 
                                          II.  
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these  proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) whic h the Commission has determined  to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the  
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisd  iction over him and the subject matter of these    
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and   
Section 9(f) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, Making Findings and Imposing a Cease-and-
Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
                                                 
                                                 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds 1
                                                                                that: 

                                        RESPONDENT  

       1.      David L. Pells, age 58, served in 2004 as president of a private Florida corporation 
called iWorld Projects & Systems, Inc. (“iWorld Florida”), and President and COO of iWorld  
Projects & Systems, Inc. (“iWorld”) during 2005.  During that time, Pells was also on iWorld’s 
board and served as the chairman of its investment committee.  He became iWorld’s CEO after the 
prior CEO resigned and remained in that position until February 2008.     

                               OTHER RELEVANT ENTITY  

       2.      iWorld is a now-defunct closed-end management investment company that elected 
in December 2004 to be regulated as a business development company (“BDC”) under Section 54 
of the Company Act.  iWorld has not filed periodic reports with the Commission since its third 
quarter 2005 Form 10-Q in November 2005.  Its corporate charter was revoked by the Nevada 
Secretary of State on January 1, 2006 due to failure to pay franchise taxes.  iWorld was in a 
voluntary Chapter 7 bankruptcy proceeding, but  that case was closed because iWorld had no 
assets.  iWorld’s common stock is registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and is listed 
for quotation on the Pink OTC Markets.   
 
                                            FACTS  

       3.      In May 2004, a business associate of Pells' formed iWorld Florida, a private Florida 
corporation.  The business associate became iWorld Florida’s CEO ( “iWorld Florida’s CEO”) and 
Pells became the company’s president and COO.  iWorld Florida’s CEO envisioned iWorld  
Florida as a holding company that would acquire operating companies and then be acquired by or 
merged with a publicly-traded company.   

       4.      During the summer and fall of 2004, iWorld Florida purchased two operating 
companies in exchange for $285,000 in working capital payments, $200,000 in assumed liabilities, 
and 1.1 million shares of iWorld Florida common stock, which was not publicly traded.  iWorld 
Florida did not obtain independent valuations of these operating companies or their assets. 

       5.      iWorld Florida’s CEO introduced Pells to the concept of a BDC and advocated it as 
a suitable vehicle for iWorld Florida’s business.  During late 2004, iWorld Florida’s CEO 
orchestrated a series of transactions, including reverse mergers with public shell companies, that 
resulted in iWorld’s creation as a publicly-traded BDC.  Pells was unaware  of the full extent to 
which iWorld Florida’s CEO controlled iWorld’s formation process.   
                                                 
1 
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any    
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
 

                                               2
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       6.       Shortly after iWorld’s formation, it acquired iWorld Florida in a transaction that 
made iWorld Florida and its subsidiaries the sole portfolio companies of iWorld.  As a result of 
that transaction, iWorld Florida’s CEO became the CEO and CFO of iWorld and Pells became its  
president and COO. 

       7.       Pursuant to Company Act Section 2(a)(41), a BDC’s board of directors must 
determine in good faith the fair value of the BDC’s portfolio securities for which market quotations 
are not readily available.2
                            Under generally accepted accounting principles, the fair value of such 
securities is “the amount at which they could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing 
parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.”3
                                                      Because there were no market quotations for  
the portfolio companies’ shares, iWorld’s board  was required to determine  in good faith the fair 
value of those shares each quarter  when it prepared its quarterly reports under the Exchange Act. 

       8.       iWorld’s board did not conduct the requisite good-faith fair valuation of its  
portfolio companies.  iWorld filed quarterly reports with the Commission on Form 10      -Q for the 
quarters ended March 31, 2005, June 30, 2005 and September 30, 2005, each of which included 
the financial statements purporting to value iWorld’s portfolio companies at $10 million and 
forecasting portfolio company revenues in the tens of millions of dollars for 2005 and 2006.  
iWorld’s second and third quarter filings further stated that the “the Company’s Investment 
Committee [has] determine[ed] that the portfolio  investments should be valued at $10 million.”   

       9.       iWorld’s investment committee had not conducted any valuation of iWorld’s  
portfolio companies and iWorld did not have written records showing the companies were worth 
the stated $10 million value.  In fact, the portfolio companies had been purchased for much less 
than $10 million, were losing money at the time they were purchased, and continued to rapidly lose 
money and repeatedly fall far short of projected revenues or earnings.  Consequently, the 
representations that the portfolio companies were worth $10 million, that they were expected to 
produce millions in revenues, and that iWorld had conducted the requisite valuation were all 
materially misleading. 

       10.     Pells was aware that iWorld’s portfolio  companies were losing money.  Although 
Pells did not sign iWorld’s public filings or certify them pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act of 2002, he reviewed  them and certified them pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 
906. 

                                                 
2 
        See Section 59 of the Company Act (applying Section 2 of the Act, among others, to a BDC to the same             
extent as if it were a registered closed-end fund).  
 
3 
        AICPA  Audit and Accounting Guide:  Investment Companies, Section 2.36.  See also, Regulation S-X, Rule 1-
01(a), under which Section 404.03.b.iv of the Commission’s Codification of Financial Reporting Releases is made   
applicable to BDCs.  Section 404.03.b.iv states, “As a general principle, the current ‘fair value’ of an issue of securities  
being valued by the Board of Directors would appear to  be the amount which the owner might reasonably expect to  
receive for them upon their current sale.”  It further states, “To comply with Section 2(a)(41) of the Investment 
Company Act, it is incumbent upon the board of directors to satisfy themselves that all appropriate factors relevant to                                      
the value of securities for which market quotations are not readily available have been considered and to determine the 
method of arriving at the fair value of each such security.” 
 

                                                   3
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       11.     By April 2006, iWorld’s portfolio companies had effectively ceased operations, and 
iWorld had no revenues, significant assets or employees.  At that point, Pells became iWorld’s 
CEO and sole officer and he remained in that position until February 2008.  During that period, the 
company failed to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls, and failed to make 
and keep books and records required of a BDC, including, among other things, ledgers of assets 
and liabilities.  iWorld has not made required periodic reports on Forms 10-Q or 10-K since 
November 15, 2005, when it filed its third quarter 2005 Form 10-Q.         

                                        VIOLATIONS  

       12.     As a result of Pells’ foregoing conduct, iWorld violated and Pells caused iWorld’s 
violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13 and 12b-20 thereunder, 
which require every issuer of a security register               ed pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act 
file with the Commission information, documents, and annual and quarterly reports as the 
Commission may require, and mandate that periodic reports contain such further material 
information as may be necessary to make the required statements not misleading.  

       13.     iWorld violated and Pells also caused iWorld’s violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) 
and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, which require reporting companies to make and keep books, 
records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their transactions 
and dispositions of their assets, and require all reporting companies to devise and maintain a 
system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles. 

       14.     Section 31(a) of the Company Act, made applicable to BDCs by Company Act 
Section 64, requires a BDC to make and keep current certain books and records as the Commission 
may require pursuant to rule and regulation.  Rule 31a-1 under the Company Act sets forth the 
records a BDC must keep including, among other things, ledgers of all assets, liabilities, reserve 
capital, income and expense accounts reflecting account balances on each day, and corporate 
documents such as minutes from meetings of the BDC’s shareholders and board of directors.  
iWorld violated and Pells also caused iWorld’s violations of Section 31(a) of the Company Act and 
Rule 31a-1 thereunder. 
   
                                              VI. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission  deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions   
agreed to in Respondent Pells’ Offer.  Accordingly, pursuant to  Section 21C of the Exchange Act  
and Section 9(f) of the Company Act it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 

                                               4
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

             Respondent cease and desist from causing any                                                violations and any future violations of 
Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of  the Exchange Act, and  Rules 13a-1, 13a-13 and 
12b-20 thereunder, and Section 31(a) of the Company Act and Rule 31a-1 thereunder.   
                             
 
 
 
             By the Commission. 
 
 
     
       Elizabeth                                                                                                      M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                                                                  

                                                                                        5
 
