---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                      the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 61445 / January 29, 2010 
 
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940 
Release No. 2980 / January 29, 2010 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3112 / January 29, 2010 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-13770 
 
 
                                              
                                              
                                             ORDER INSTITUTING 
In the Matter of                             ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
                                             PURSUANT TO SECTION 203(f) OF THE 
      MARK EVAN BLOOM (CPA),                 INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940 
                                             AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
Respondent.                                  COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                             MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                             REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                              
 
 
                                          I.  
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to 
Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) and Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of 
the Commission’s Rules of Practice1
                                against Mark Evan Bloom, CPA (“Respondent” or “Bloom”).  

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                  
                                                  
                                                II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Sections III.2 and III.4 below, which are admitted, 
Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to  
Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act  of 1940 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules  
of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                               III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
       1.      Bloom, 58 years old, is a resident of New York, New York.  He was the principal 
and 100% owner of North Hills Management, LLC (“North Hills”), an unregistered investment 
adviser that served as Manager and General Partner of North Hills, L.P. (the “Fund”).  Bloom is  
also a certified public accountant and was licensed to practice in the State of New York. 
        
       2. On February 25,       2009, the Commission filed a complaint against Bloom in SEC v. 
North Hills Management, LLC, et al., Civil Action No. 1:09-CV-1746 (JGK).  On October 22, 
2009, the Court entered an order permanently enjoining Bloom, by consent, from future violations 
of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of  
1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and Sections 206(1), 206(2) and 206(4) of the Advisers Act and 
Rule 206-4(8) thereunder.  
 
       3.      The Commission’s complaint alleged that, from on or before July 2001 to February 
2009, in connection with the offer, sale and purchase of limited partnership interests in the Fund, 
Bloom misused and misappropriated investor funds, falsely stated to investors that their funds were  
invested as represented in the offering materials, sent out false account statements indicating that  
investor funds were fully invested and earning returns, and otherwise engaged in a variety of 
conduct which operated as a fraud and deceit on investors.    
 
       4.      On July 30, 2009, Bloom pled guilty to one count of securities fraud in violation of 
Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78j(b) and 78ff, Title 17, Code of Federal Regulations, 
Section 240.10b5 and Title 18, United States Code, Section 2; one count of mail fraud in violation 
of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1341 and 2; one count of wire fraud, Title 18, United 
States Code, Sections 1343 and 2; one count of money laundering, Title 18, United States Code, 

                                                                                                                                                             
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
                                                 2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

Sections 1957 and 2; and one count of corruptly endeavoring to obstruct and impede the due 
administration of the internal revenue laws, Title 26, United States Code, Section 7212(a), before 
the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, in United States v. Mark 
Evan Bloom (Criminal Information No. S1:09-CR-367).   
 
        5.      The counts of the criminal information to which Bloom pled guilty alleged, inter  
alia, that Bloom defrauded investors and obtained money and property by means of materially false 
and misleading statements, that he used the United States mails to send fa   lse account statements, 
that he caused commercial interstate carriers to deliver investors’ checks to him via wire, 
transferred investor funds to unlawfully renovate his home and purchase artwork and jewelry and 
obstructed the internal revenue laws by, among other things, promoting tax shelters. 
 
                                                  IV. 
         
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
        Pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, Respondent Bloom be, and hereby is barred 
from association with any investment adviser;   
 
        Pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Respondent Bloom is 
suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant.        
 
        Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws 
and regulations governing the reentry process,  and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of 
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following:  (a) any 
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially 
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served  
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a 
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order; 
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct 
that served as the basis for the Commission order. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                        M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                   

                                                   3
  
