---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                  STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                            the 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 60415 / July 31, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3027 / July 31, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13567 
                                                   ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                  ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-
                                            AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS 
In the Matter of                                   PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 4C AND 21C 
                                                   OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
       FRANK S. LAFORGIA, CPA,                     OF 1934 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                   COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
Respondent.                                        MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                                   REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-
                                                   AND-DESIST ORDER  
                                                                        
 
  
                                                I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Frank S. 
LaForgia, CPA (“Respondent” or “LaForgia”) pursuant to Sections 4C   1
                                                                       and 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii)  of the Commission’s Rules of  
Practice.2 
          

                                                 
1
                        Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:   
 
       The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the privilege                       
of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way,  if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the   
requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be   lacking in character or integrity, or to have engaged in  
unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have   willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the 
violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.   
 
2
      Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that:  
 
       The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before  
it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct.                                      
 
        
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making 
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth 
below. 
 
                                               III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  3
                                                                                  that: 
 
A. SUMMARY     
 
       1.      These proceedings concern the improper professional conduct of LaForgia, a 
certified public accountant (“CPA”), who conducted improper audits and reviews of Certified 
Services, Inc.’s (“Certified”) financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 
December 31, 2003 and the first three quarters of 2004 (the “engagements”).  LaForgia’s departure  
from the applicable professional standards while acting as the engagement partner caused the 
accounting firm, Rosenberg, Rich, Baker, Berman  & Company, PA (“Rosenberg Rich”), to issue 
unqualified audit and review reports despite the fact that Certified’s financial statements were not 
presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).   
        
       2.      Certified was a publicly held company located in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.   
Certified and its subsidiaries operated a professional employee leasing organization (“PEO”)  
business.  PEOs provide small and medium-size businesses with a variety of human resource 
services by acting as a co-employer of those businesses’ employees.  Among other things, 
Certified assumed some or all of its clients’ responsibilities and risks related to workers’ 
compensation insurance coverage.  Beginning in 2002, Certified retained Rosenberg Rich to audit 
its financial statements and quarterly filings.   
        
       3.      On March 6, 2008 the Commission filed a complaint in U.S. District Court for the 
Southern District of Florida (the “Complaint”), alleging, among other things, that Certified’s  
management engaged in financial fraud from approximately 2001 through 2004.    4
                                                                                  The  
Commission alleged that Certified’s officers artificially and materially inflated the company’s 
                                                 
3
     The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other                         
person or entity in this or any other proceeding.                                       
 
4
      SEC v. W. Anthony Huff et al., 08-60315-CIV-ZLOCH (S. D. Fla.).  
 
                                                2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

financial condition in its Commission filings by including at its high point almost $47 million in 
bogus letters of credit (“LOCs”) as assets on its balance sheet and omitting liabilities that reached a 
high of approximately $65 million.  The Commission also alleged that the company failed 
adequately to disclose material related party relationships and related party transactions.  
        
       4.     LaForgia was Rosenberg Rich’s engagement partner on the audits and reviews at  
issue.  LaForgia should have known that Certified’s financial statements for the years ended 2002 
and 2003 as well as the first three quarters of 2004 were misleading and not presented in 
accordance with GAAP.  As the engagement partner, LaForgia was a cause of Certified issuing 
misstated financial statements by ignoring significant evidence that indicated heightened audit risk 
and by failing to conduct Certified’s audits and reviews in accordance with generally accepted 
auditing standards (“GAAS”).  Additionally, LaForgia should have known that Rosenberg Rich’s 
unqualified audit reports were false because they represented that the audits were conducted in 
accordance with GAAS, when they were not.   
        
       5.     LaForgia thereby was a cause of Certified’s violations of Sections 10(b), 13(a) and 
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder, and 
engaged in improper professional conduct within the meaning of Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice (“Rule 102(e)(1)(ii)”).  
 
B.      RESPONDENT  
 
       LaForgia,             CPA, age 61, resides in White House Station, New Jersey.  LaForgia is a CPA 
licensed in New Jersey since 1975.  From 2002 through 2005, LaForgia was Rosenberg Rich’s                   
engagement partner for Certified.  LaForgia currently works for a private company.  
 
C. FACTS 
 
       Certified  
        
       1.     In July 2001, Danny L. Pixler and W. Anthony Huff formed Midwest Merger 
Management (“Midwest”) as a holding company, capitalized it with $500, and listed Pixler’s wife  
and Huff’s ex-wife as the primary shareholders.  In November 2001, Midwest acquired a majority 
ownership interest in Certified, an inactive public shell company.  Certified and its subsidiaries 
operated a PEO business.  Through a series of acquisitions, Certified grew from a shell company 
with minimal assets to a company with approximately $78 million in revenues and $107 million in 
assets in 2003.  Pixler was Certified’s president and Huff, who was affiliated with Midwest, was 
also an undisclosed control person of Certified.   
 
       Certified Improperly Recorded LOCs as Assets  
        
       2.     Beginning in July 2002, Certified’s insurer required one of Certified’s subsidiaries 
to post more collateral due to Certified’s rapidly expanding PEO business.  Certified relied 
primarily on another entity Pixler and Huff controlled through a business associate, to obtain the 

                                               3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

               collateral for its insurer.  That entity provided this collateral in the form of LOCs which were due 
               to expire in one year.5
                                       Midwest played a role in obtaining the LOCs.     
                        
                       3.     In December 2002, Midwest entered into an agreement with Certified to purchase 
               shares of Certified’s preferred stock (“Subscription Agreement”).  The Subscription Agreement 
               specifically provided that the subscriber could use various forms of consideration to subscribe to 
               the offering, including cash or LOCs.  Midwest used the very same LOCs which it had procured 
               for Certified’s subsidiary as consideration for the subscription.  Beginning with its 2002 annual 
               report, Certified reported these LOCs as assets.  Certified relied on the fact that the LOCs were 
               used as consideration under the Subscription Agreement as a factor in justifying their treatment as 
               assets.  By Certified’s second quarter 2003 filing it was reporting $47 million in LOCs as assets on 
               its financial statements.  The LOCs were discovered to be bogus by Certified’s insurer during 
               Certified’s third quarter of 2003.  However, as discussed below, it was improper for Certified to  
               record the LOCs as assets even if they had been legitimate.     
                        
                       Certified Improperly Omitted its Workers’ Compensation Liabilities  
                           
                       4. Certified improperly omi      tted substantial workers’ compensation liabilities from its 
               balance sheets.  As Certified’s PEO business expanded in 2002 and 2003, Certified assumed 
               increasing amounts of workers’ compensation liabilities as part of the normal operation of its PEO 
               business.  Midwest and Certified entered into a Risk Allocation Agreement (“Risk Agreement”), 
               purportedly to enable Midwest to manage Certified’s workers’ compensation program and to 
               protect against the exposure that Certified would face from large claims.  Certified used the Risk 
               Agreement to justify omitting its workers’ compensation liabilities from its financials asserting that 
               those liabilities were assumed by Midwest under the Risk Agreement.   
                        
                       5.     In reality though, Midwest did not assume any of Certified’s workers’ 
               compensation liabilities under the Risk Agreement.  The Risk Agreement provided that Midwest 
               would “assume responsibility for and promptly make all required payments in excess of the 
               applicable deductibles… .” (emphasis added).  However, Certified already had re-insurance that 
               protected it against having to make payments in excess of the applicable deductible ($1 million per 
               claim).  Certified’s risk was its liability for deductibles, which the Risk Agreement did not transfer.  
               Even if the terms of the Risk Agreement had purportedly provided any real economic protection, it 
               is unlikely that Midwest would have been able to honor those terms based on the fact that Midwest  
               had negative equity for 2001-2003 and only one employee.     
                        
                       Certified Failed to Disclose its Related Party Transactions  
   
                       6.     In its financial statements, Certified acknowledged its relationship with Midwest 
               but omitted required information. Certified disclosed that Midwest was a “related party,” however 
               Certified did not disclose that Pixler was a co-manager of Midwest.  Certified also failed to 
                                                                
               5 
                      A LOC is an instrument under which the issuer, usually a bank, at a customer's request, agrees to honor a draft   
               or other demand for payment made by a third party, as long as the draft or demand complies with specified        
               conditions, and regardless of whether any underlying ag reement between the customer and the beneficiary is 
               satisfied. 
                                                                4
  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

              disclose until its Form 10-Q for the period ending September 30, 2004 that Pixler had received 
              payments from Midwest.  Additionally, Certified failed to disclose that Pixler’s wife owned at least 
              a 40% stake in Midwest. 
 
                      Auditor Violations of Professional Standards  
                       
                      7.     LaForgia’s GAAS failures during the engagements facilitated Certified’s ability to 
              report $47 million of bogus assets, omit $65 million of liabilities and not fully disclose its related 
              party relationships and transactions.  LaForgia failed to: staff and plan adequately; obtain sufficient 
              competent evidential matter regarding assets and liabilities; exercise due professional care and 
              professional skepticism; and issue accurate audit reports and review reports.  Based on his 
              violations of professional standards, LaForgia was a cause of Certified issuing misstated financial 
              statements by ignoring significant evidence that indicated heightened audit risk and by failing to 
              conduct Certified’s audits and reviews in accordance with GAAS.  Additionally, LaForgia should 
              have known that Rosenberg Rich’s unqualified audit reports were false because they incorrectly 
              represented that the audits were conducted in accordance with GAAS, and that Certified’s financial  
              statements conformed with GAAP.  Furthermore, LaForgia also caused Rosenberg Rich to 
              improperly issue seven unqualified review reports for Certified’s quarterly filings from the third 
              quarter of 2002 through the third quarter of 2004.   
                           
                      Failure Adequately to Staff and Plan the Engagements  
                       
                      8.     LaForgia failed adequately to staff the engagements.  GAAS requires audits to be  
              performed by a person or persons having adequate technical training and proficiency as an auditor.  
              (AU § 150.02, Generally Accepted Auditing Standards)  The auditor, having ultimate authority for 
              the audit, should “know, at a minimum, the relevant professional accounting and auditing 
              standards and should be knowledgeable about the client.” (AU § 230.06, Due Professional Care in 
              the Performance of Work)  The auditor “with final responsibility is responsible for the assignment 
              of tasks to, and supervision of, assistants.” (AU § 230.06)  LaForgia did not have any prior 
              experience auditing LOCs before accepting the Certified engagement.  Despite his lack of 
              experience with LOCs, and the  complexity of Certified’s business and financial relationships, 
              LaForgia staffed the engagements with an audit manager who had limited experience auditing 
              LOCs and no experience auditing PEO’s.  LaForgia’s own inexperience auditing LOCs and his 
              decision to select an inexperienced audit manager negatively impacted  LaForgia’s ability to 
              conduct the audits and reviews in accordance with GAAS.  The two most senior accountants on the 
              engagement had little or no experience auditing the largest category of assets on Certified’s 
              balance sheets.   
                       
                      9.     LaForgia failed to plan and develop audit programs tailored to address issues 
              unique to Certified.  GAAS requires that the auditor plan the audit “to obtain reasonable assurance 
              about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether caused by error 
              or fraud.” (AU § 316.01, Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit)  The risk 
              assessment process should “be ongoing throughout the audit” and should consider whether the 
              “nature of audit procedures performed may need to be changed to obtain evidence that is more 
              reliable or to obtain additional corroborative information.” (AU § 316.52)  LaForgia was aware 

                                                              5
  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

that Certified had rapidly grown from a shell company to a company with approximately $78 
million in revenues.  LaForgia also knew the LOCs comprised 45% of Certified’s assets.  Further, 
LaForgia was aware of Certified’s treatment of its workers’ compensation liabilities which were 
purportedly being assumed by its controlling shareholder, Midwest.  Despite this knowledge, 
LaForgia did not plan and develop an adequate  audit program particular to Certified and these   
issues. 
        
       10.     Further, LaForgia failed adequately to  plan, develop and adjust his audit programs 
or procedures when he was confronted with significant indications of increased fraud risk.  
Auditors must consider potential fraud factors when planning and performing the audit.  GAAS 
states that the assessment of the risk of material misstatement due to fraud is a cumulative process 
and one that should be ongoing throughout the audit. (See § AU 316) LaForgia had researched 
Huff’s background while conducting the engagements and knew that Huff had previously been 
criminally indicted.6
                      Also, LaForgia identified concerns in a November   11, 2002 letter to  
Certified.  LaForgia stated that he was “distressed” to learn that Certified incorrectly recorded $8 
million worth of LOCs as cash on its balance sheet.  Further, in a November 19, 2002 letter to 
Certified, LaForgia identified additional concerns, namely “a lack of total candor” by Certified’s 
executives regarding the auditors’ inquiries, and Certified’s penchant for “managing earnings,”  
among other things.  LaForgia’s observations show that he was aware of heightened audit risks yet 
he did not adequately tailor the audit program specifically to address the risks suggested by these  
facts that were both specific to Certified and critical to the audit of its financial statements.   
        
       Failure to Obtain Sufficient Competent Evidential Matter Regarding Assets and 
       Liabilities  
                
       11.     Auditors must obtain sufficient competent evidence to afford a basis for an opinion 
regarding the financial statements under audit. (AU § 326.01, Audit Evidence   ) The validity and 
sufficiency of required evidence depends on the circumstances and the auditors’ judgment, but 
should be “persuasive” though it need not be “conclusive.” (AU § 326.13) With respect to such  
judgment, an auditor must maintain an attitude of professional skepticism and assess the risk that 
errors and irregularities may cause the financial statements to contain a material misstatement. (AU 
§ 316.13)  An assessment of higher risk may cause the auditor to expand the extent of procedures    
applied or modify the nature and/or the timing of procedures to obtain more persuasive evidence. 
        
       Failure to Audit LOCs Included in the Financial Statements  
 
       12.     Certified’s LOCs represented its single largest asset for its 2002 financial 
statements and each subsequent quarter up to, and including, the quarter ended September 30, 

                                                 
6
           In 1998, the State of Kentucky revoked Huff’s insurance license in connection with an $113,000 insurance    
premium theft while he was associated with U.S. Trucking, Inc. (“U.S. Trucking”) as a significant shareholder.  In                      
2000, Huff was indicted by the Unite d States Attorney’s Office for the Western District of Kentucky, for his 
involvement in a multi-million dollar insurance fraud with U.S.  Trucking.  In 2004, he pled guilty to three counts of   
mail fraud in that case, served 12 months probation and paid restitution of approximately $180,000.                         
  
                                                 6
  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

2003.7
        LaForgia accepted the position that Certified properly recorded the LOCs as assets because 
they were given in consideration for the Subscription Agreement and were analogous to a note, or  
alternatively a promise to pay.  However, LaForgia’s conclusion was unreasonable.  Emerging 
Issues Task Force 85-1, Classifying Notes Received for Capital Stock, (1985)(“EITF 85-1”) states  
that “[t]he SEC requires that public companies report notes received in payment for the enterprise’s  
stock as a deduction from shareholders’ equity.”  Midwest provided the LOCs, which LaForgia 
equated to a note, as consideration in exchange for Certified’s preferred stock.  Therefore, 
LaForgia’s conclusion was inconsistent with EITF 85-1.     
        
      13.      Further, LaForgia failed to obtain sufficient competent evidence to conclude that 
the LOCs were properly recorded as assets.  Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts No. 6. 
Elements of Financial Statements, provides that: 
        
       An asset has three essential characteristics: (a) it embodies a probable future benefit that  
       involves a capacity, singly or in combination with other assets, to contribute directly or  
       indirectly to future net cash inflows, (b) a particular entity can obtain the benefit and 
       control others’ access to it, and (c) the transaction or other event giving rise to the entity’s 
       right to or control of the benefit has already occurred.   
        
       14.     The LOCs did not and could not provide Certified with future cash flows.  The 
LOCs were not cash equivalents but instead a promise to pay cash to Certified’s insurance provider  
on behalf of one of Certified’s subsidiaries, upon the insurer’s demand.  However the LOCs’ future  
economic benefits were limited in duration because the fees paid to use the LOCs were made for a 
fixed period of time, usually one year.  Therefore any future benefit ended after one year unless the 
LOCs were renewed or replaced.  Midwest, not Certified, was obliged to replace the LOCs if they 
were not renewed by the issuing bank upon expiration.  Certified’s future economic benefit from 
the LOCs would have only extended beyond one year if Midwest had the financial capabilities to 
renew or replace the LOCs after their expiration.  LaForgia did not obtain sufficient competent 
evidence regarding Midwest’s financial capabilities to renew or replace the LOCs, and evidence 
shows that Midwest did not have such capabilities.        
        
       15.     The LOCs also failed to meet the second criteria of an asset.  Certified did not own 
or control the LOCs and could not pledge, assign or transfer them.  This fact also renders moot the  
third characteristic of an asset, since Certified did not control the benefit of the LOCs.  In addition, 
Certified did not provide collateral for the LOCs.  Therefore, LaForgia did not obtain sufficient 
evidence to overcome these factors which collectively demonstrate that the LOCs were not assets.   
 
       Failure Adequately to Audit the Risk Agreement and Workers’ Compensation 
       Liabilities  
        
       16.     Certified asserted that under the Risk Agreement its workers’ compensation 
liabilities were assumed by Midwest, even though it is clear under the Risk Agreement’s terms 
                                                 
7
     Certified reported $18.7 million of LOCs as assets for 2002 and $47.5 million of LOCs as assets in the second                         
quarter of 2003. 
 
                                                7
  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

that Midwest did not assume those liabilities.  LaForgia failed adequately to audit and review the 
key terms of the Risk Agreement.  LaForgia instead relied on Certified’s representations that 
pursuant to the Risk Agreement, Certified’s workers’ compensation liabilities were assumed by 
Midwest and could be omitted from Certified’s financial statements.  GAAS requires that 
“[d]uring an audit, management makes many representations to the auditor, both oral and 
written, in response to specific inquiries or through the financial statements.  Such 
representations from management are part of the audit evidence the independent auditor obtains, 
but they are not a substitute for the application of those auditing procedures necessary to afford a 
reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the financial statements under audit.”  (AU § 333.02, 
Management Representations)  LaForgia had a general understanding about how the parties 
operated under the Risk Agreement, but had little information concerning Midwest’s business.  
LaForgia did not take sufficient steps independently to test Certified’s reliance on the Risk 
Agreement as a basis for its decision to omit the liabilities.   
        
       17.     Aside from his reliance on the Risk Agreement, LaForgia failed to obtain other 
sufficient competent evidence to support his position that Certified properly omitted the workers’ 
compensation liabilities from its financial statements.  Certified maintained a contractual 
relationship with its insurer and even if the Risk Agreement was consistent with LaForgia’s  
belief, Certified would still be obligated to pay the deductible amount for claims in the event that 
Midwest did not fulfill its promises under the Risk Agreement.  Further, GAAS requires that 
“[w]ith respect to material uncollected balances, guarantees, and other obligations, [auditors 
should] obtain information about the financial capability of the other party or parties to the 
transaction.”  (AU § 334.10e, Related Parties)  LaForgia did not have, or require, adequate 
assurance that Midwest had the financial resources to satisfy the workers’ compensation 
liabilities and he did not do adequate work to satisfy himself of Midwest’s ability to pay.  
LaForgia failed to obtain sufficient competent evidence to provide a basis for his opinion that the 
workers’ compensation liabilities could be omitted from Certified’s financial statements.  
        
       18.      Additionally, LaForgia was also confronted with facts that should have raised his 
professional skepticism with regards to the Risk Agreement.  For example, Certified’s filings  
included inconsistent versions of the Risk Agreement.  Specifically, the language in the text of 
Certified’s filings materially contradicted the language of the Risk Agreement that was attached to 
the filing.  The two versions of the Risk Agreement language were contradictory regarding which 
party was responsible for paying claims above or below the $1 million deductible - a critical aspect 
of the Risk Agreement.  Also, the Risk Agreement was purportedly signed by Certified’s president.  
This individual was not even associated with Certified at that time.  These facts, in addition to 
those previously mentioned regarding Certified’s growth and fraud risks, should have further 
caused LaForgia’s increased skepticism.  Instead, he failed to  obtain sufficient competent evidence 
and unreasonably relied on management’s representations about the Risk Agreement and why the  
workers’ compensation liabilities were being omitted. 
        
       Failure to Control the LOC Confirmation Process  
                       
       19.     LaForgia was confronted with numerous facts that should have caused him to  
heighten his skepticism during the LOC confirmation process.  For example, he was aware of 

                                                8
  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

Certified’s rapid growth, the increase in the LOCs as a proportion of Certified’s assets, LaForgia’s 
documented concerns regarding Certified’s management and his knowledge of Huff’s criminal 
background.  Significantly, LaForgia also knew that Certified did not maintain accounts with the 
financial institution that purportedly issued the LOCs.  Despite these facts, and in contravention of 
AU § 330.15, (AU § 330, The Confirmation Process   ) LaForgia did not exhibit an appropriate level 
of professional skepticism.   
        
       20.     LaForgia’s review of the LOCs and the process LaForgia directed and conducted 
to confirm the LOCs were insufficient.  GAAS requires that “[d]uring the performance of 
confirmation procedures, the auditor should maintain control over the confirmation requests and 
responses.  Maintaining control means establishing direct communication between the intended 
recipient and the auditor to minimize the possibility that the results will be biased because of 
interception and alteration of the confirmation requests or responses.”  (AU § 330.28)  GAAS 
also instructs that “[t]he auditor should direct the confirmation request to a third party who the 
auditor believes is knowledgeable about the information to be confirmed.  For example, to 
confirm a client’s oral and written guarantees with a financial institution, the auditor should 
direct the request to a financial institution official who is responsible for the financial 
institution’s relationship with the client or is knowledgeable about the transactions or 
arrangements.” (AU § 330.26)  LaForgia and his team did not control the LOC confirmation 
process.  Rather than independently obtaining the address of the issuing bank, LaForgia and his 
team of auditors relied on Certified to supply the contact information.  The address they found in 
Certified’s documents was not actually connected with the bank but instead was the address of a 
retail mail service store.  
         
       21.     LaForgia and his team also failed to  reasonably evaluate a purported confirmation 
response from the issuing bank.  LaForgia did not  question why a standard client authorization for 
release of information letter directed to Certified and received by the auditors was signed by a 
purported bank employee rather than someone from Certified.  Additionally, LaForgia and his  
team requested certain information concerning LOCs issued on behalf of Certified’s subsidiary, 
however the issuing bank response listed Certified, not the subsidiary as the beneficiary of the 
LOCs.  Despite LaForgia’s receipt of this document he failed adequately to analyze this one-page 
confirmation and did not notice the discrepancy.  This discrepancy should have increased 
LaForgia’s skepticism for two reasons.  First, Certified was never mentioned in the auditors’ 
authorization letter.  Second, neither Certified nor its subsidiary ever had a banking relationship 
with that bank.  Further, LaForgia and his team requested that the issuing bank identify the source 
of the LOCs’ collateral, but the response failed to address this issue and LaForgia did not further 
pursue it.  Finally, Certified did not have any other bank documents to support the issuance of the 
LOCs and the auditors did not obtain any evidence of cash disbursements backing the LOCs.  The 
totality of these facts should have raised LaForgia’s skepticism regarding the validity of the LOCs, 
particularly since they comprised such a large part of Certified’s assets. 
        
       Failure to Identify and Examine Properly Related Party Transactions  
 
       22.     LaForgia failed to perform adequate procedures to identify related parties, and the  
related party transactions in the engagements.  GAAS states that “[t]he auditor should place 

                                                9
  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

emphasis on testing material transactions with parties he knows are related to the reporting entity.”  
(AU § 334.07)  Further, AU Section 334.11 provides that “[t]he auditor should consider whether 
he has obtained sufficient competent evidential matter to understand the relationship of the parties 
and, for related party transactions, the effects of the transaction on the financial statements.”  
Certified failed to fully describe its relationship with Midwest in its Commission filings.  Certified 
disclosed that Midwest was a “related party” because it was Certified’s largest shareholder and as 
part of its disclosures relating to the Risk Agreement.  Yet, Certified did not disclose that in 
addition to being Certified’s largest shareholder,  Midwest was a related party to Certified because 
Pixler was a co-manager of Midwest; Pixler received payments from Midwest; and Pixler’s wife 
owned at least a 40% stake in Midwest. 8
                                          LaForgia testified that he knew, during the 2002 audit,  
that Pixler’s wife and Huff’s ex-wife were the owners of Midwest.  Yet LaForgia did not object to 
Certified’s failure to disclose Pixler’s wife’s ownership of Midwest (nor that of Huff’s ex-wife, 
since LaForgia knew, or should have known, that Huff was an undisclosed control person of 
Certified).  Additionally, during the 2003 audit, LaForgia also learned that Pixler was an 
“owner/controller” of Midwest.  Yet again, LaForgia did not object to Certified’s failure to disclose 
Pixler’s overlapping management roles.  Furthermore, LaForgia failed to take adequate steps to 
investigate and determine the full extent as to why Midwest was a related party when he was 
confronted with these additional facts evidencing the intertwined relationship.  LaForgia’s failure 
to obtain competent evidential matter regarding Certified’s related party transactions in accordance 
with GAAS, and failure to address Certified’s inadequate disclosure of known intercompany 
relationships, caused Certified to issue financial statements that provided inadequate disclosures.   
    
       Failure to Exercise Due Professional Care and Professional Skepticism  
               
       23.     GAAS required LaForgia to exercise due professional care in performing the 
engagements and in the preparation of the audit and review reports. (AU § 230.01)  Due care 
required LaForgia to exercise professional skepticism in planning auditing and review procedures  
and in assessing audit evidence and to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter through 
inspection, observation, inquiries, and confirmations to afford a reasonable basis for the opinion 
regarding Certified’s financial statements. (AU § 230.07-.08)  “In exercising professional 
skepticism, the auditor should not be satisfied with less than persuasive evidence because of a 
belief that management is honest.” (AU § 230.09)  Exercise of professional skepticism requires 
auditors to demonstrate a questioning mind and to critically assess audit evidence. (AU § 230.07; 
see also  AU § 316.13)  LaForgia had a responsibility not only to plan and perform the 
engagements to provide reasonable assurances of detecting material errors or irregularities in the 
financial statements, but to exercise sufficient professional skepticism to achieve reasonable 
assurance that material errors or irregularities would be detected.  As described above, LaForgia’s 
lack of skepticism resulted in the audit and review failures.  
        
       Failure to Issue Accurate Audit Reports and Review Reports  
 
       24.     In auditing Certified’s financial statements, and reviewing Certified’s quarterly 
filings, LaForgia acted unreasonably in rendering audit reports and review reports containing 
                                                 
8 
 Certified did not disclose that Pixler received payments from Midwest until filing its Form 10-Q for the period 
ending September 30, 2004.  
                                                10
  
---------------------Page 11---------------------

unqualified opinions.  GAAS requires that the auditor’s report contain an opinion on the 
financial statements taken as a whole and contain a clear indication of the character of the 
auditor’s work.  (AU § 508.04, Reports on Audited Financial Statements) The auditor can 
determine that he is able to issue an audit report containing an unqualified opinion only if he has 
conducted his audit in accordance with GAAS and the financial statements were presented in 
accordance with GAAP.  (AU §§ 508.07 & .22)  LaForgia signed Rosenberg Rich’s audit reports 
and review reports on Certified’s financial statements and quarterly filings even though those 
statements and quarterly filings were not presented in accordance with GAAP and that LaForgia 
did not conduct the audits in accordance with GAAS.  Nevertheless, LaForgia issued audit 
reports containing unqualified opinions that falsely stated that Certified’s financial statements 
were presented in accordance with GAAP and that he and the auditors he directed had conducted 
the audits in accordance with GAAS.  
 
       Violations   
 
       1.     Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder prohibit a person, in 
connection with the purchase or sale of a security, from making an untrue statement of a material 
fact or from omitting to state a material fact necessary to make statements made, in light of the 
circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. To violate Section 10(b) or Rule 10b-
5, a defendant must act with scienter, Aaron v. SEC, 446 U.S. 680, 695, 701-02 (1980), which the 
Supreme Court has defined as “a mental state embracing intent to deceive, manipulate, or defraud,” 
Ernst & Ernst v. Hochfelder, 425 U.S. 185, 193 n.12 (1976).  Certified violated Section 10(b) of 
the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder by filing with the Commission quarterly and annual 
reports that were materially misstated and that misrepresented Certified’s financial condition and 
results of operations. 
               
       2.     Under Section 21C of the Exchange Act the Commission may “enter an order 
requiring such person, and any other person that is, was, or would be a cause of the violation, due  
to an act or omission the person knew or should have known would contribute to such violation, to  
cease and desist from committing or causing such violation and any future violation of the same 
provision, rule, or regulation.”  Exchange Act, 15 USCS § 78u-3.  As a result of his actions 
described above LaForgia was a cause of Certified’s violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange 
Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder. 
 
       3.     Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder require 
issuers with securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act to file quarterly and annual 
reports with the Commission and to keep this information current.  The obligation to file such 
reports embodies the requirement that they be true and correct. See, e.g., SEC v. Savoy Indus., Inc., 
587 F.2d 1149, 1165 (D.C. Cir. 1978), cert. denied            , 440 U.S. 913 (1979).  Rule 12b-20 requires 
disclosure of such additional information as may be necessary to  make the required statements not  
misleading.  Implicit in these provisions is the requirement that the information reported be true, 
correct and complete. See SEC v. IMC International, Inc., 384 F.Supp. 889, 893 (N.D. Texas), 
aff’d mem., 505 F.2d 733 (5th
                             Cir. 1974), cert. denied sub nom. 
 

                                               11
  
---------------------Page 12---------------------

       4.     As discussed above, LaForgia’s actions were a cause of Certified filing false and 
misleading annual and quarterly reports with the Commission that misrepresented Certified’s 
financial results.  By his conduct described above, LaForgia caused Certified’s violations of 
Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder.   
 
       5.     Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires Section 12 registrants to make  
and keep books, records, and accounts that accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of their assets. 
 
       6.      As a result of the actions taken by LaForgia as described above, LaForgia was a  
cause of Certified’s violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act.   
 
       7.      Under Rule 102(e)(1)(iv), the term “improper professional conduct” means, in part, 
“repeated instances of unreasonable conduct,  each resulting in a violation of applicable  
professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice before the Commission.” 
 
       8.      As a result of the actions described above, LaForgia engaged in improper 
professional conduct pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
        
       Undertakings  
        
       1.     Ongoing Cooperation by LaForgia.  LaForgia undertakes to cooperate fully with the  
Commission in any and all investigations, litigations or other proceedings relating to or arising 
from the matters described in this Order.  In connection with such cooperation, LaForgia has 
undertaken: 
        
               A.      To produce, without service of a notice or subpoena, any and all documents 
and other information reasonably requested by the Commission’s staff;  
               
               B.      To be interviewed by the Commission’s staff at such times as the staff may 
reasonably request and to appear and testify truthfully and completely without service of a notice 
or subpoena in such investigations, depositions, hearings or trials as may be requested by the 
Commission’s staff; and  
               
               C.      That in connection with any testimony of LaForgia to be conducted at 
deposition, hearing or trial pursuant to a notice or subpoena, LaForgia: 
               
                      i.       Agrees that any such notice or subpoena for his appearance and 
testimony may be served by regular mail on his counsel, R. Scott Thompson, Esq., Lowenstein  
Sandler PC, 65 Livingston Avenue, Roseland, New Jersey 07068; and  
                       
                      ii.      Agrees that any such notice or subpoena for his appearance and 
testimony in an action pending in a United States District Court may be served, and may require  
testimony, beyond the territorial limits imposed by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. 
 
 
                                               12
  
---------------------Page 13---------------------

        Findings  
                
       1.      Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that LaForgia engaged in improper 
professional conduct pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  
  
       2.      Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that LaForgia was a cause of 
Certified’s violations of Sections 10(b), 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 
Rule 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1 and13a-13 promulgated thereunder.   
 
                                               IV. 
                                                  
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent LaForgia’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
       A.      LaForgia shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder; 
and from causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the 
Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 promulgated thereunder;   
 
       B.      LaForgia is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission 
as an accountant. 
 
                    C. After five (5) years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that 
the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of 
the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                                1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
      
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                            (a) Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight    Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which  
he/she is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any 

                                                13
  
---------------------Page 14---------------------

criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that 
would indicate that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                  (c)             Respondent has resolved all di      sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                          (d)      Respondent acknowledges        his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 
 
        D.       The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                               M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                         
 

                                                       14
  
