---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                        Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 66796 / April 12, 2012 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3380 / April 12, 2012 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14846 
                                          
                                         :       
In the Matter of                         :      ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                         :      PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
JORGE L. CASTILLO, CPA,                  :      102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF           
                                         :      PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
             Respondent                  :      IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
____________________________________ :            
                                                 
                                            I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Jorge L. 
Castillo (“Castillo” or “Respondent”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1
           
                                              
                                            II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III. 2. below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
               1.     Castillo, age 56, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to 
practice in the State of New Jersey.   From at least 2003 through 2010, Castillo served, and publicly 
presented himself, as the independent, outside auditor for Provident Capital Indemnity Ltd. (“PCI”), 
a purported insurance and reinsurance company based in Costa Rica.   
        
               2.     On  April 6, 2012, a final judgment was entered against Castillo by consent, 
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 and Rule 10b- 5 thereunder, and Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, in the civil 
action entitled SEC v. Provident Capital Indemnity, Ltd., Minor Vargas Calvo, and Jorge L. 
Castillo, Civil Action No. 3:11-CV-045 (REP), in the United States District Court for the Eastern 
District of Virginia.  
 
               3.     The Commission’s Complaint alleged, among other things, that Castillo 
 falsely represented that he had audited PCI’s financial statements from at least 2003 through 
 2009, when, in fact, he never conducted an audit of PCI’s financial statements for those years; 
 rather than conduct proper audits, he instead issued clean audit opinions at the bidding of PCI’s 
 president, which falsely stated that PCI’s financial statements for those years “present fairly, in 
 all material respects, the financial position of [PCI] in conformity with generally accepted 
 accounting principles.” The Complaint alleged that Castillo’s actions, in turn, supported the 
 illusion that PCI had materially larger assets – including a Long-Term Asset that purportedly 
 comprised 70% to 80% of PCI’s total assets – and a greater financial wherewithal to support its 
 obligation on financial guarantee bonds issued in connection with life settlement investments.  
 Castillo allegedly knew or was reckless in not knowing that the Long-Term Asset did not exist 
 and assisted PCI’s president in manufacturing false backup for the Long-Term Asset.  The 
 Complaint also alleged that Castillo knew, or was reckless in not knowing that PCI was 
 providing his false audit reports to a rating agency that, in partial reliance on those reports, gave 
 PCI a high rating.  The Complaint also alleged that, on occasion, Castillo assisted PCI’s 
 president in formulating responses to the rating agency’s questions.  The Complaint also alleged 
 that PCI’s president asked Castillo to issue certificates to life settlement issuers that falsely stated 
 PCI had made payments to purchase reinsurance, which Castillo did; such actions supported the 
 illusion that PCI’s obligations on financial guarantee bonds were backed by reinsurance.   
  
             4.       The Commission’s Complaint further alleged that in 2010, after learning of 
a regulatory inquiry into his conduct, Castillo asked the president of PCI to manufacture backup 

                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
material to support Castillo’s purported audit procedures and told the PCI president that he had 
destroyed or was in the process of destroying all of his e-mails.  Castillo also urged PCI’s 
president to destroy documents.  
        
   
                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Castillo’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       Castillo is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                     Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                     Secretary 
 

                                                3  
