---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No.  67945 / September 28, 2012 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3411 / September 28, 2012 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-12468 

                          
                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
In the Matter of           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
Douglas W. Marcille,       :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
CPA                        :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 

                          
        

       On October 31, 2006 Douglas W. Marcille, CPA (“Marcille”) was suspended from 
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against Marcille pursuant to Rule 
                                                1
102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice.   This order is issued in response to 
Marcille’s application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 

       The Commission found that Marcille had been permanently enjoined by the United States 
District Court for the Southern District of Florida from future violations of Sections 5(a), 5(c), 
17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933.  The Commission’s complaint alleged that 
between March 2002 and August 2003 U.S. Gas & Electric, Inc., acting through executives of 
the company, including Marcille, its then-chief financial officer, and others, raised more than 
$6.8 million from investors in a series of unregistered offerings of securities. The defendants 
used a boiler room of telemarketers to offer and sell securities to approximately 180 investors 
throughout the United States, many of whom were senior citizens. The complaint further alleged 
that, U.S. Gas, through Marcille and others, failed to disclose to investors that excessive 
commissions were being paid to the boiler room telemarketers out of the offering proceeds, and 

                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2506 dated October 31, 2006.  Marcille was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after three years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                    

made misrepresentations to investors in one of the offerings regarding the amount of 
management fees that would be paid out.  

       The Commission's complaint also alleged that U.S. Gas, Marcille, and another executive 
violated the registration provisions of the federal securities laws by failing to file registration 
statements in connection with the offerings. The complaint further alleged that U.S. Gas 
committed issuer reporting violations by failing to make required periodic filings with the 
Commission.  

       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Marcille 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Marcille is not, at this time, seeking to appear 
or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume 
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be 
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Marcille’s 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 

       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
                                                          2
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”   This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 

       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Marcille, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the October 31, 2006 order 
suspending him from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct, or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
and that Marcille, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee 
of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in 
his practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to 
be filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is 
accordingly, 

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
 

                                                 2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                                

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice that 
Douglas W. Marcille, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as 
an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                            
                                            
                                           Elizabeth M. Murphy  
                                           Secretary  

                                              3 
