---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                          the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 60898 / October 28, 2009 
 
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940 
Release No. 2942 / October 28, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3061 / October 28, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13669 
 
                                                  
                                                ORDER INSTITUTING  
                                                ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
In the Matter of                                 PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                 COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE 
       TAB KEPLINGER, CPA                        AND SECTION 203(f) OF THE 
                                                 INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940, 
Respondent.                                      MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                                 REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                 
 
 
 
 
                                              I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in 
the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant 
to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice1
                                                          and Section 203(f) of the Investment 
Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Tab Keplinger (“Keplinger” or “Respondent”).  
 
 
 
 
                                                 
1 
       Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest  and without preliminary hearing, may, by order, . . .  
suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has been by name . . . permanently   
enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the                                                             
Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of  
the rules and regulations thereunder.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.4 below, which are admitted, 
Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant 
to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Section 203(f) of the Investment 
Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set 
forth below. 
 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that  
 
              1.      Keplinger, age 48, is and has been a certified public ac countant licensed to 
practice in the State of Ohio.  He served as Chief Financial Officer of Brantley Capital 
Management, LLC (“BCM”) and of Brantley Capital Corp. (“Brantley Capital”) from June 1996 
until July 15, 2005. 
 
                          2. BCM was, at all relevant times, a limited liability company headquartered 
in Ohio, which served as Brantley’s investment adviser from Brantley Capital’s 1996 inception 
until September 28, 2005.  BCM has previously been registered with the Commission as an 
investment adviser, but currently is not registered and is not serving as an investment adviser.  
Brantley’s prospectus and BCM’s investment advisory agreement and Form ADV indicate that 
BCM was responsible for oversight of Brantley’s records and financial reporting requirements. 
        
                          3. Brantley Capital was, at all relevant times, a closed-end, non-diversified 
investment company, incorporated in Maryland and headquartered in Ohio, which elected to be 
regulated as a business development company under the Investment Company Act of 1940.  
Brantley’s common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”).  Prior to April 21, 2005, Brantley’s common 
stock traded on The Nasdaq National Market system   
 
              4.      On August 13, 2009, the Commission filed a complaint against Keplinger 
in SEC v. Robert Pinkas et al. (Civil Action No. 1:09-cv-01906).  On September 14, 2009, the 
court entered an order permanently enjoining Keplinger, by consent, from violating Exchange 
Act Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) and Rules 10b-5, 13a-14, 13b2-1, and 13b2-2 thereunder, and 
from aiding and abetting violations of Exchange Act Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B) 
and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder, and Advisers Act Sections 206(1) and 206(2).  
Keplinger was also ordered to pay a $50,000 civil money penalty.  In addition, Keplinger was 
barred from serving as an officer or director of a publicly-traded company for five years. 
 

                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

               5.     The Commission’s complaint alleges, among other things, that in 
Brantley Capital’s Forms 10-Q and 10-K for the period 2002 to 2005, Keplinger knowingly or 
recklessly overstated the value of two companies, Flight Options International (“FOI”) and 
Disposable Products Company (“DPC”), that together represented over one-half of Brantley 
Capital’s investment portfolio.  The Complaint alleges that Keplinger also knowingly or 
recklessly made material misrepresentations and failed to make required disclosures regarding 
FOI and DPC to Brantley Capital’s board of directors and to investors in Brantley Capital’s 
public filings. 
        
                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest 
to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Keplinger’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby  ORDERED: 
 
       A.      Pursuant to Advisers Act Section 203(f), Keplinger is hereby barred from 
association with any investment adviser with the right to reapply for association after one (1) 
year to the appropriate self-regulatory organization, or if there is none, to the Commission. 
 
       B.      Any reapplication for association with an investment adviser by Keplinger will be 
subject to the applicable laws and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be 
conditioned upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all 
of the following:  (a) any disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the 
Commission has fully or partially waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration 
award related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-
regulatory organization arbitration award to a customer, whether or not related to the conduct 
that served as the basis for the Commission order; and (d) any restitution order by a self-
regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the 
Commission order.  
 
       C.      Keplinger is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
                    D. After five (5) years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that 
the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of 
the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                                1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
      

                                                3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                            (a) Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight         Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                        (b)     Respondent, or the registered   public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms  
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                 (c)            Respondent has resolved all di   sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                        (d)     Respondent acknowledges      his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 
 
        E.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume           
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
        By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth M. Murphy 
       Secretary                                                   
 

                                                   4
  
