---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 
 UNITED                                 STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                           the 

 SECURITIES                          AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 64279 / April 8, 2011 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3266 / April 8, 2011 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14335 
                                                     ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                    ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-
                                              AND-DESIST PROC              EEDINGS PURSUANT 
In the Matter of                                     TO SECTIONS 4C AND 21C OF THE 
                                                     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
       TODD D. CHISHOLM, CPA,                        AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                     COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
Respondent.                                          MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                                     REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-
                                                     AND-DESIST ORDER  
 
 
                                                     
 
                                               I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate  that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Todd D. 
Chisholm, CPA (“Respondent”) pursuant to Sections 4C   1
                                                         and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 2 
                                                                                        
                                                 
1 
       Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:    
 
       The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the privilege                       
of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way,  if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the   
requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be   lacking in character or integrity, or to have engaged in  
unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have   willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the 
violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.   
 
2 
       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that:  
 
       The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before  
it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct.                                      
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
                                                  
                                                II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making 
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth 
below. 
 
                                                III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds   3
                                                                                  that:  
 
   A.   SUMMARY  
            
       1.       From year-end 2004 through the first quarter of 2008, Powder River Petroleum 
International, Inc. (“Powder River” or “the company”) improperly accounted for over $43 million 
in proceeds from conveyances of fractional working interests in oil-and-gas leases to investors in 
Asia.  In particular, Powder River immediately recognized revenue from the conveyances, despite 
the fact that it had promised the Asian working interest investors a guaranteed return until they 
recouped their initial investment.  In addition, Powder River also improperly recorded assets it did 
not own or that were stated in excess of net realizable value.  As a result, Powder River’s financial 
statements did not present fairly, in all material respects, the company’s financial position, 
operating results, and cash flows in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.  
Powder River materially overstated its revenues by 7% to 2,417%, its pre-tax income by 18% to 
441%, and its assets by 7% to 48% in its Commission filings during the applicable period.  
        
       2.       From year-end 2004 through the third quarter of 2007, Respondent was the   
engagement partner on Powder River’s audits and reviews.  He failed to conduct these 
engagements in accordance with Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”)           
Standards.  Respondent also caused Chisholm, Bierwolf, Nilson and Morrill, LLC’s failure to have 
procedures in place to detect fraud and his failures as an auditor were a cause of Powder River’s filing  
of false and misleading Forms 10-QSB and 10-KSB.  Accordingly, Respondent   engaged in improper  
professional conduct, violated Section 10A(a)(1) of the Exchange Act, and was a cause of Powder  
River’s violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13 and 12b-20  
thereunder.  
                                                                                                                                                             
 
3 
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any    
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
                                                 2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
        
        
        
   B.   RESPONDENT  
 
       3.      Todd D. Chisholm is a certified public accountant licensed in the state of Utah.  He 
became an audit partner at a predecessor of Chisholm, Bierwolf, Nilson and Morrill, LLC 
(“Chisholm Bierwolf”) in 1995, and he served as  the firm’s managing partner from 2004 to 2010.  
Chisholm was the engagement partner on the audits and quarterly reviews of Powder River from 
2004 through the third quarter of 2007, and supervised Chisholm Bierwolf’s engagements to audit 
and review Powder River’s financial statements throughout that period.    
        
   C.   RELEVANT ENTITIES 
            
       4.      Powder River Petroleum International, Inc.                        is an Oklahoma corporation 
headquartered in Calgary, Canada.  The company’s common stock is registered with the  
Commission pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12(g).  Powder River’s shares are currently quoted  
on Pink OTC Markets, Inc.  In  July 2008, an Oklahoma district court granted a temporary 
restraining order and appointed a receiver for Powder River in connection with a complaint filed 
by certain Asian investors.4
                            In December 2008, Powder River filed for bankruptcy. 5
                                                                                    It has not 
restated its financial statements, other than a restatement of its 2007 quarterly financial statements  
included in its year-end 2007 financial statements, nor has it filed any reports with the Commission 
since September 17, 2008.  
        
       5.      Chisholm, Bierwolf, Nilson & Morrill, LLC, a PCAOB-registered audit firm with 
offices in Bountiful and Layton, Utah, and its predecessors, have been Powder River’s auditor 
since 2001.  
        
   D.   FACTS 
            
       Oil-and-Gas Working Interest Conveyances   
        
        6.      From year-end 2004 through the first quarter of 2008, Powder River offered and 
sold working interests in its oil-and-gas leases through an independent sales agent to investors in 
Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia.  Powder River’s contracts with Asian investors provided that 
they would receive guaranteed payments yielding an annual minimum of 9%, and in some cases 
more, beginning approximately six months after the date of investment until investors reached the 
“break-even” point, i.e. when their principal had been repaid (the “guaranteed payments”).  
Thereafter, investors received lease production payments based on their respective working 
interests.  By the second quarter of 2007, Powder River’s guaranteed payments exceeded not only 
the investors’ share of oil-and-gas production revenues, but also Powder River’s total production 
                                                 
4 
       See  Chang v. Powder River Petroleum Int’l, Inc. (Okla. Dist. Ct. July 14, 2008) (No. CJ-2008-4855). 
 
5 
       See  In re Powder River Petroleum Int’l, Inc. (Bankr. W.D. Okla. Dec. 12, 2008) (No. 08-15613).  
                                                3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
revenues.  After that date, Powder River used proceeds from working interest conveyances to new 
investors to fund guaranteed payments to earlier investors.  
         
        7.     From year-end 2004 through the first quarter of 2008, Powder River improperly 
recognized as revenue over $33.5 million in proceeds from conveyances of the working interests to 
investors.  These conveyances were in substance and should have been reported by Powder River  
as borrowings, not revenue (see Financial Accounting Standards No. 19,   Financial Accounting and 
Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Companies, paragraph 43).  The investors’ contractual right 
to receive guaranteed payments until their “break-even point” represented, in substance, a loan of 
capital to Powder River at a guaranteed 9% minimum rate of return.  As a result of  Powder River’s  
improper accounting, the company materially overstated its revenues in its Forms 10-QSB, 10-Q, 
10-KSB and 10-K for the year ended December  31, 2004 through the quarter ended March 31, 
2008 by 7% to 2,417% and its net pre-tax income by 18% to 441%.  
         
        8.     Respondent supervised Powder River’s audits and quarterly reviews from year-end 
2004 through the third quarter of 2007.  During Respondent’s 2004 and 2005 audits, and his 
quarterly reviews during 2005 and 2006, Respondent failed to examine the documents underlying 
the working interest conveyances or to question Powder River’s improper revenue recognition of 
conveyance proceeds.  Instead Respondent relied, without further inquiry, on the Powder River  
CEO’s characterization of the working interest conveyances as “sales.”  As a result, Powder River:  
a) failed to disclose and account properly for the guaranteed payments; and b) improperly reported 
the working interest conveyance proceeds as revenue in financial statements included in its 2004 
and 2005 Forms 10-KSB and its Forms 10-QSB from the first quarter of 2005 through the third 
quarter of 2006.  
         
        9.     During Powder River’s 2006 audit, Respondent became aware of Powder River’s 
9% payments to the working interest investors, but failed to inquire further about them or consider 
how those payments might affect Powder River’s revenue recognition or whether the company 
should disclose its payment obligation in its 2006 financial statements.  As a result, Powder River 
continued to record the working interest conveyance proceeds as revenue, failed to disclose the 
guaranteed payments, and improperly offset the guaranteed payments against the company’s oil-
and-gas production receipts.   
         
        10.    In the second quarter of 2007, when the guaranteed payments exceeded Powder 
River’s entire oil-and-gas receipts, the company began recording the guaranteed payments on its 
balance sheet as an asset labeled “pre-paid production payments.”  Respondent was aware of these 
facts.  Yet, during his 2007 quarterly reviews, Respondent again failed to consider the impact of 
the guaranteed payments on Powder River’s revenue recognition or to inquire further whether 
Powder River’s accounting for those payments was correct.  He also failed to consider whether 
Powder River should disclose its guaranteed payment obligation.  As a result of the foregoing, 
Powder River continued to record the working interest conveyance proceeds as revenue, failed to 
disclose the guaranteed payments, and mischaracterized those payments as an asset in its financial 
statements included in its second and third quarter 2007 Forms 10- QSB.  
 

                                               4
  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 
       Inflated Assets   
 
       11.     Powder River reported assets that it did not own or that did not exist in financial 
statements included in its 2005 and 2006 Forms  10-KSB and its Forms 10-QSB for the first, 
second and third quarters of 2005 and 2006.  During the company’s 2005 and 2006 audits, 
Respondent failed to conduct sufficient audit procedures to support the recorded oil-and-gas assets;  
otherwise he would have discovered information that indicated a significant amount of such assets 
should be removed from Powder River’s financial statements.  As a result, the company overstated 
its assets by 7% to 40%.  
             
       12.     In particular, Powder River improperly included as assets in its financial statements  
two oil-and-gas leases it had agreed, but failed, to acquire.  Specifically, in 2005, Powder River  
made $500,000 in nonrefundable payments as a part of an agreement to acquire a New Mexico oil-
and-gas lease for $5 million, but by August 2005 it had defaulted on the terms of the agreement 
and lost its rights to the lease. Nonetheless, Powder River continued to report the lease as an asset 
on its balance sheet from the third quarter of 2005 through the first quarter of 2008, which was its 
last quarterly report.  Similarly, Powder River made nonrefundable payments totaling $1.5 million 
in late 2006 and early 2007 as part of an agreement to acquire a Texas oil-and-gas lease for $6.5 
million.  The company reported the lease, along with an associated note payable, as assets on its 
balance sheet from year-end 2006 onward.  In reality, the agreement was never consummated, no 
note agreement was ever executed, and Powder River ultimately forfeited its payments.   
 
       13.     During Powder River’s 2005 and 2006 audits, Respondent failed to review the oil-
and-gas lease purchase documents for the New Mexico and Texas l  eases and to obtain adequate  
documentation for the $2 million paid to third-parties in the failed lease purchases.  During the 
2006 audit, Respondent also failed to perform adequate alternate procedures even though:  a) 
documents provided by Powder River to Chisholm Bierwolf indicated the Texas lease purchase 
agreement terms expired in December 2006; and b) Chisholm Bierwolf received an irregular 
confirmation of the purported $5 million promissory note. 
 
       Failure to Assess the Work of a Professional  
 
       14.     At year-end 2005 and 2006, oil-and-gas properties represented 62% and 67%, 
respectively, of Powder River’s total assets.  In auditing Powder River’s 2005 and 2006 financial 
statements, Respondent obtained and relied upon brief excerpts from oil-and-gas reserve reports.  
Respondent did little, if anything, to: a) evaluate the qualifications of the petroleum engineer who 
prepared the oil-and-gas reserve reports; b) understand the nature of the work performed in 
preparing the oil-and-gas reserve reports; and c)  evaluate the petroleum engineer’s relationship to  
Powder River.  Prior to the completion of the 2005 audit, Respondent learned that the  
Commission’s Division of Corporation Finance staff had issued comments, some of which 
addressed Powder River’s oil-and-gas reserves, on its 2004 Form 10-KSB, and participated in at 
least one telephone call regarding the company’s response to those comments.  Respondent knew or 
should have known that the staff’s comments and Powder River’s responses thereto raised questions  
as to: a) the qualifications of the engineer who prepared the reserve reports; b) the adequacy of the  

                                               5
  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 
reserve reports to support disclosures made in the financial statements; and c) conformity of the 
reserve reports with Rule  4-10 of Regulation S-X.  Accordingly, Respondent failed to adhere to the 
guidance contained in AU 336, Using the Work of a Specialist              , and failed to obtain sufficient 
competent evidential matter to support Chisholm Bierwolf’s report on Powder River’s 2005 and 
2006 financial statements.  
               
       15.     Powder River’s year-end 2005 and 2006 financial statements disclosed 
supplementary, unaudited footnote information required under Statement of Financial Accounting 
Standards No. 69, Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities.  Despite the questions raised 
by the staff’s comments on Powder River’s 2004 Form 10-KSB, Respondent  failed to comply with 
the provisions of AU §9558, Required Supplementary Information; Auditing Interpretation of  
Section 558, while supervising Powder River’s 2005 and 2006 audits.  AU §9558 states that if an  
auditor believes that information may not be presented within the applicable guidelines he ordinarily  
should make additional inquiries. Respondent had reason to believe that Powder River’s footnote 
information may not have been presented within applicable guidelines.  Therefore, he ordinarily 
should have made additional inquiries, but failed to do so.  
               
       Creation of Audit Documents  
 
       16.     Prior to a PCAOB inspection in 2007, Respondent created and back-dated or 
directed Chisholm Bierwolf’s staff to create and back-date audit planning and other documents  
more than 45 days after the documentation completion dates for the 2006 audit of Powder River’s 
financial statements.  Respondent and his firm’s staff failed to document in the workpapers the dates 
that these changes were made, the names of the persons who made them, and the reasons for adding 
information.  They also failed to notify the PCAOB inspection team that changes had been made to 
the audit files without appropriately documenting the date  of those changes.  As a result, 
Respondent failed to comply with PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 3, Audit Documentation, in  
addition to violating PCAOB rules.   Respondent produced those documents to SEC staff during its  
investigation, without disclosing that they had been back-dated or created after document  
completion deadlines.  
 
       Failure to Conduct Audits in Accordance with PCAOB Standards        
 
       17.     As the foregoing conduct demonstrates, Respondent failed to conduct Powder 
River’s 2004, 2005, and 2006 audits in accordance with PCAOB Standards and Rules.  Specifically,  
Respondent failed to:  
            
                      a.      Adequately plan audits and properly supervise assistants, under AU 
311, ¶8, Planning & Supervision; 
                       
                      b.      Gather sufficient competent evidential matter, under AU 326, ¶13, 
Audit Evidence, to support the characterization of Powder River’s revenue and his conclusions on 
company assets;  
                       

                                               6
  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 
                      c.       Exercise due professional care and skepticism, under AU 230, ¶¶9, 
25, Due Professional Care in the Performance of Work, as illustrated by repeated failures to 
review underlying documentation, undue reliance on management, and failure to respond 
appropriately to “red flags;”  
                       
                      d.      Consider whether, under AU 336, ¶¶8, 9, Using the Work of a 
Specialist, Powder River’s petroleum engineers possessed the necessary qualifications for their 
work to be used as audit evidence; 
                       
                      e.       Make additional inquiries under AU §9558, Required Supplementary 
Information; Auditing Interpretation of Section 558, although Respondent had reason to believe that  
Powder River’s oil-and-gas reserves footnote information may not have been presented within 
applicable guidelines; and  
                       
                      f.       Properly prepare audit documentation, under PCAOB Auditing 
Standard No. 3, ¶15, Audit Documentation, as demonstrated by after-the-fact creation and back­
dating of audit planning documents and checklists at Respondent’s direction. 
 
       18.     Furthermore, Respondent did not have procedures in place designed to provide 
reasonable assurance of detecting illegal acts that would have a direct and material effect on 
Powder River’s financial statement amounts, as required by Section 10A(a)(1) of the Exchange 
Act.  This was demonstrated by Respondent’s  failure to recognize Powder River’s improper 
revenue recognition, his failure to identify assets  improperly included on its balance sheet, and his 
reliance on non-SEC compliant reserve reports that failed to support Powder River’s reported 
reserves.  
               
   E.   VIOLATIONS   
 
       19.     Exchange Act Section 10A(a)(1) requires each audit to include procedures designed 
to provide reasonable assurance of detecting illegal acts that would have a direct and material 
effect on the determination of financial statement amounts.  No showing of scienter                                     is necessary to 
establish a violation of Section 10A.  See SEC v. Solucorp Indus., Ltd., 197 F. Supp. 2d 4 
(S.D.N.Y. 2002). 
               
       20.     As discussed above, Respondent violated Section 10A(a)(1) by failing to have 
adequate procedures in place during Powder River’s 2004, 2005 and 2006 audit to reasonably 
assure detection of illegal acts, such as Powder River’s material overstatement of its revenues, its 
undisclosed guaranteed payments, its inclusion of improperly recorded assets on its balance sheet, 
and its materially overstated oil-and-gas reserves, which materially affected the determination of 
financial statement amounts.   
        
       21.     Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13, and 12b-20 thereunder, 
require every issuer of a security registered purs uant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act file with 
the Commission information, documents, and annual and quarterly reports as the Commission 

                                               7
  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 
may require, and mandate that periodic reports contain such further material information as may 
be necessary to make the required statements not misleading.  The obligation to file such reports                                    
embodies the requirement that they be true and correct.  See, e.g., SEC v. Savoy Indus., Inc., 587 
F.2d 1149, 1165 (D.C. Cir. 1978), cert. denied, 440 U.S. 913 (1979).   
        
       22.     As discussed above, from year-end 2004 through the third quarter of 2007, 
Respondent’s failures were a cause of Powder River’s filing of false and misleading quarterly and 
annual reports with the Commission.  Accordingly, Respondent was a cause of Powder River’s 
violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13, and 12b-20 thereunder. 
               
       23.     Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Section 4C of the 
Exchange Act authorize the Commission to censure or deny, temporarily or permanently, the  
privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission to accountants who are found to have  
engaged in improper professional conduct.  Under Rule 102(e)(1)(iv), the term “improper 
professional conduct” means, in part, “repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting 
in a violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice 
before the Commission.”  Respondent’s actions were unreasonable and failed to conform to 
applicable professional standards.  Accordingly, his conduct supports an action under Rules 
102(e)(1)(ii) and 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) of the Rules of Practice.  
               
   F.   FINDINGS  
 
       24.     Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent violated Section 
10A(a)(1) of the Exchange Act, and was a cause of Powder River’s violations of Section 13(a) of 
the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13, and 12b-20 promulgated thereunder.  
        
       25.     Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent engaged in 
improper professional conduct pursuant to Rules 102(e)(1)(ii) and 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice.  
 
   G.   UNDERTAKING 
 
       26.     Cooperation. Respondent undertakes to cooperate fully with the Commission 
with respect to any matter relating to the Commission's investigation of Powder River or its 
current or former officers, directors, employees, or auditors, including but not limited to any 
litigation or other proceeding related to or resulting from that investigation.  Such cooperation 
shall include, but is not limited to, upon reasonable notice and without subpoena:  

              a.      Producing any document, record, or other tangible evidence reasonably 
requested by Commission staff in connection with the Commission's investigation, litigation or 
other proceedings; 

              b.      Providing all information reasonably requested by Commission staff in 
connection with the Commission's investigation; and  

                                               8
  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

 
              c.       Attending and providing truthful statements at any meeting, interview, 
testimony, deposition, trial, or other legal proceeding reasonably requested by the Commission 
staff.  

       27.    In determining whether to accept the Offer, the Commission has considered these 
undertakings. 
 
                                              IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
   A.   Respondent shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future 
violations of Section 10A(a)(1) of the Exchange Act.  
 
   B.   Respondent shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13, and 12b-20 
promulgated thereunder.  
 
   C.   Respondent is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.  
 
   D.   After five years from the date of this Order, Respondent may request that the Commission 
consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief Accountant)  
to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as:  
 
       1.      A preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, of 
any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such an 
application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
    
       2.      An independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that: 
    
              a.      Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such 
registration continues to be effective; 
            
              b.      Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
                                               9
  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

 
             
                 c.       Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the PCAOB, and has 
complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the PCAOB (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
             
                 d.       Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Respondent 
appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the PCAOB, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
 
    E.   The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 
     
 By the Commission.             
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                             M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                       

                                                      10
  
---------------------Page 11---------------------

 
                                             Service List  
 
       Rule 141 of the Commission's Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or another duly 
authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order Instituting Public 
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making 
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order ("Order"), on the 
Respondent and his legal  agent. 
 
       The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to 
notice:  
 
Honorable Brenda P. Murray                              
Chief Administrative Law Judge                          
Securities and Exchange Commission  
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-2557                 
 
Shoshana Thoma-Isgur, Esq. 
Fort Worth Regional Office                               
Securities and Exchange Commission              
801 Cherry Street, Suite 1900  
Fort Worth, TX 76102                               
  
Mr. Todd D. Chisholm                                        
c/o Douglas E. Griffith, Esq. 
Kesler & Rust 
68 South Main Street, 2nd Floor  
Salt Lake City, Utah 84101                                
                                                      
Douglas E. Griffith, Esq. 
Kesler & Rust 
68 South Main Street, 2nd Floor  
Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 
(Counsel for Todd D. Chisholm)  
 

                                                  11
  
