---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                         Before the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 66269 / January 30, 2012 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3359 / January 30, 2012 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-14724 
 
                                                    
                                                   
                                                   
In the Matter of                                  ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                  ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
       CHRISTOPHER J. KELLY  ,                          PURSUANT TO SECTION 4C OF THE 
       ACA                                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
                                                   AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
             and                                        COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                                   MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
             MARGARET HEBB, ACA                   REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
 
Respondents. 
 
 
 
 
                                                          
                                              I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Christopher J. Kelly, ACA 
(“Kelly”) and Margaret Hebb, ACA (“Hebb”) (collectively the “Respondents”) pursuant to Section 
4C1
    of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice.2
                                
                                                 
1
 Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
       The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the privilege 
       of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess 
       the requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to have 
       engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully violated, or willfully aided 
       and abetted the violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.  
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                   
                                                 II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, each Respondent has submitted an 
Offer of Settlement (“Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them  and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents con sent to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 4C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and 
Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                                III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds    3
                                                                                     that:  
 
A.     SUMMARY 
 
            1. These proceedings arise out of the Respondents’ improper professional conduct 
during audits of the 2004, 2005 and 2006 financial statements of Symmetry Medical Sheffield LTD, 
f/k/a Thornton Precision Components, Limited (“TPC”).  TPC  has, since 2003, been a  wholly 
owned U.K. subsidiary of Symmetry Medical, Inc. (“Symmetry”). Since December 2004, 
Symmetry has been an NYSE      listed company.  TPC’s financial data has at all relevant times been 
included in Symmetry’s consolidated financial statements filed with the Commission as part of 
Symmetry’s quarterly 10-Q and annual 10-K filings.  From 1999 through     late September 2007, 
TPC’s management was engaged in a scheme to improperly boost TPC’s revenues, net income and 
other performance indicators by fraudulently manipulating TPC’s financial accounts.  TPC booked 
fictitious sales revenues, understated costs of goods sold, created fictitious inventories, improperly 
capitalized certain tool and die to reduce expenses, and engaged in other accounting manipulations, 
resulting in material overstatements of net income and material misstatements of other financial line 
items in Symmetry’s financial statements.   
 
              2. Since 2003, Ernst & Young, LLP (“E&YUS”) has served as Symmetry’s 
independent auditor.  In connection with its 2004-6 audits of Symmetry’s consolidated financial 
statements, E&YUS engaged     Ernst & Young LLP UK (“E&YUK”) to audit the financial statements 

                                                                                                                                                             
 
2
 Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
               The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
               practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper 
               professional conduct. 
 
3
  The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not binding on any other 
person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   
                                                 2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

of TPC.  Respondent Kelly served as the audit partner on E&YUK’s 2004- 6 TPC audits, while 
respondent Hebb was  the audit manager on the 2005 and 2006 audits.   
 
       3.     Respondents’ audits failed to comply with numerous Public Company Accounting 
Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) auditing standards.  Respondents failed to obtain sufficient competent 
evidential matter, failed to exercise due professional care in the planning and performance of their 
audits, and failed to properly supervise the audits.  The fraud at TPC was not uncovered and 
E&YUK issued unqualified audit opinions on TPC’s 2004-6 financial statements .  E&YUS, in turn, 
issued unqualified audit reports for Symmetry’s 2004-6 Form 10-K filings that incorrectly stated 
that Symmetry’s financial statements were fairly reported in conformity with Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (“GAAP”).   Respondents’ conduct, as further described below, constituted 
improper professional conduct within the meaning of Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) and (iv) and Section 4C of 
the Exchange Act. 
 
B.     RESPONDENTS 
 
              4.     Christopher J. Kelly  , ACA, age 49, is a citizen of the United Kingdom.  In 1987, 
Kelly became a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales 
(“ICAEW”), a professional credential corresponding to that of certified public accountant in the 
United States.4
                 Kelly was employed with E&YUK from 1984 to 2009 and     served as the audit 
partner on the TPC audit engagement from 2003 until the Fall of 2007.   
 
       5.     Margaret Hebb, née Whyte     , ACA, age 50, is a citizen of the United Kingdom.  
Hebb became a member of the ICAEW in 1994.  Hebb served as the senior manager on the TPC 
audit engagement for the 2005 and 2006 audits.     
 
C.     OTHER RELEVANT PARTIES 
 
              6.     Symmetry Medical, Inc. (“Symmetry”), is a Delaware corporation founded in 
1976 with its headquarters in Warsaw, Indiana.  Symmetry manufactures medical implants and 
instruments and also manufactures specialized products for the aerospace industry.  Symmetry 
operates facilities in the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Ireland and Malaysia.  
Symmetry completed its initial public offering in December 2004.  At all relevant times, 
Symmetry’s common stock has been    registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of 
the Exchange Act and has been listed on the New York Stock Exchange.    
 
       7.     Symmetry Medical Sheffield LTD, f/k/a Thornton Precision Components, 
Limited (“TPC”) is a UK limited liability company wholly owned by Symmetry and located in 
Sheffield, UK.   Symmetry acquired TPC in June 2003.  TPC manufactures forged, cast, and 
machined implants for the global orthopedic device and aerospace markets.  TPC’s financial data 
has at all relevant times been included in Symmetry’s consolidated financial statements filed 
with the Commission as part of Symmetry’s quarterly 10-Q and annual 10-  K filings. 
                                                 
4
  The designations “ACA” (for Associate Chartered Accountant) and FCA (for Fellow Chartered Accountant) are 
used in the United Kingdom and are analogous to the CPA designation in the United States.   
 
                                               3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

        
              8.     Ernst & Young, LLP (“E&YUS”) is a national public accounting firm 
headquartered in New York City, with offices located throughout the United States.  At all relevant 
times, E&Y has provided auditing, consulting, and tax services to a variety of companies, 
including companies whose securities are registered with the Commission.  E&YUS has served as 
Symmetry’s external auditor since June 2003.   
 
              9.     Ernst & Young LLP UK (“E&YUK”) is an   Ernst & Young “member firm” 
providing accounting and auditing services in the United Kingdom.  E&YUK has audited TPC’s 
financial accounts since June 2003.   E&YUK is registered with the PCAOB and was required to 
register with the PCAOB in order to participate—through its audit of TPC—in E&YUS’s audit 
of Symmetry.   
 
D.     FACTS 
 
       The Fraud at TPC 
 
       10.    From 1999 through late September 2007, TPC was engaged in a scheme to 
improperly boost TPC’s revenues, net income and other performance indicators by fraudulently 
manipulating TPC’s financial accounts.  TPC booked fictitious sales revenues, understated costs of 
goods sold, created fictitious inventories, improperly capitalized certain tool and die to reduce 
expenses, and engaged in other accounting manipulations, resulting in material overstatements of 
net income and material misstatements of other financial line items in Symmetry’s financial 
statements. 
 
       Fictitious Sales Revenues 
 
              11. TPC booked fictitious sales revenues in an effort to make up shortfalls to its 
monthly and quarterly sales revenues targets.  TPC recorded the fictitious sales by making top-side 
journal entries to sales and accounts receivable.  When TPC needed additional sales to meet its 
monthly target, for example, its practice was to  book a top-side sales entry to meet that target.  
 
       12.    TPC’s booking of fictitious sales revenues had a significant impact on TPC’s 
accounts receivable (“AR”) balances.  For example, for fiscal year 2005, TPC’s reported AR was 
£10,717,000, but of that amount, at least £4,122,000, or roughly 38%, was fictitious.  For fiscal 
year 2006, TPC’s reported AR was £12,440,000 but of that amount, at least £6,031,000, or roughly 
48%, was fictitious.   
 
       Understatement of Cost of Revenues and Manipulation of Inventories 
 
       13.        In an effort to boost TPC’s profits artificially, TPC intentionally understated cost 
of revenues.  Rather than report the actual costs of inventory sold, TPC’s accounting group made 
journal entries reducing expense and increasing inventory balances.  As a result of these 
manipulations, TPC’s balance sheet overstated  inventory.   
        

                                               4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       14.        In order to conceal their manipulation of costs and inventory, TPC’s accounting 
staff falsified their detailed inventory ledger, which was prepared after every physical inventory 
count.  TPC added fictitious work in process  (WIP) inventory to the listing  to make it appear that 
TPC’s inventory subledger reconciled to the general ledger and balance sheet.   
        
       15.        TPC’s manipulation of cost of revenues and inventories had a significant  impact 
on TPC’s financial statements.  For  example, for fiscal year 2005, TPC reported inventories 
valued at £9,753,000.  In reality, only £3,531,000, or 36%, of that inventory actually existed.  
That same year, TPC underreported its cost of revenues by £2,505,000, thus increasing gross 
profit by the same amount.  For fiscal year 2006, TPC reported inventory valued at £10,973,000.  
In reality, only £3,692,000, or 33%, of that inventory actually existed.  For the same period, TPC 
under-reported costs of goods sold by £1,058,000, thus increasing TPC’s gross profit by the 
same amount.  5
                
               
        Symmetry’s 2008 Restatement 
 
       16.        The fraud at TPC was not discovered until September 2007, when an employee of 
TPC came forward and confessed the fraud to Symmetry’s CEO. 
 
              17. On April 23, 2008, after completing an internal investigation into the accounting 
irregularities at TPC, Symmetry filed a Form 10-K Annual Report for the   fiscal year ended 
December 29, 2007 and amended Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q/A for the first and second 
quarters of fiscal 2007, collectively reflecting the restatement of: (i) Symmetry’s previously issued 
consolidated financial statements for the 2005 and 2006 fiscal years and the first and second 
quarters of fiscal 2007; (ii) selected financial data for the 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 fiscal years; 
and (iii) Management’s Discussion and Analysis, based on the restated annual and quarterly 
financial information. 
                       According to Symmetry, the restatement was necessitated by the accounting 
irregularities at TPC. 
 
       18.     The restatement negatively impacted Symmetry’s previously reported financial 
results for fiscal years 2003 through the second quarter of 2007.   The chart below shows that the 
errors were material to Symmetry’s 2004-6 financial statements:  
 
Fiscal Year         Reported Net        Restated Net         Difference          Overstatement 
                    Income              Income 
2004                $11.7 million       $8.4 million         -$3.3 million       -39% 
2005                $31.8 million       -$9.9. million       -$41.7 million 6
                                                                                 -421% 
2006                $24.1 million       $18.5 million        -$5.6 million       -30% 
 
                                                 
5
 TPC engaged in a number of other improper and fraudulent accounting manipulations in an effort to meet its 
monthly performance targets.  These techniques included improper tool and die capitalization and manipulation of 
its accounts payable. 
 
6
 $33.6 million of the reduction in earnings for FY 2005 resulted from the write down of goodwill associated with 
Symmetry’s acquisition of TPC.   
                                                 5  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

              19. In the seven months between the close of trading on October 4, 2007, after which 
Symmetry made its first disclosure concerning accounting irregularities at TPC, and the close of 
trading on April 25, 2008, the day after Symmetry filed its restatement, Symmetry’s stock price fell 
more than 26%, from $17.74 per share to $13.05 per share.     
 
       E&YUK’s Deficient TPC Audits 
 
       Background 
 
       20.    E&YUS audited Symmetry’s consolidated     financial statements for fiscal years 
2004-6.  In connection with its Symmetry audits, E&YUS engaged E&YUK to audit TPC      ’s 
financial accounts.  E&YUK’s audits were to be conducted  in accordance with PCAOB auditing 
standards, and TPC’s financial reporting packages were to be prepared in compliance with US 
GAAP.  E&YUS relied on the results of E&YUK’s audits to issue its unqualified audit reports for 
Symmetry’s Form 10-K filings for fiscal years 2004-6.     
 
              21. Respondent Kelly was the E&YUK engagement partner on TPC’s 2004-6 year   -end 
audits.  Respondent Hebb was the E&YUK audit manager on the 2005 and 2006 audit 
engagements. 7
                The following deficiencies were common to the 2004-6 fiscal year audits.   
 
       E&YUK Failed to Properly Audit TPC’s Accounts Receivable Balances 
 
              22. E&YUK failed to reconcile TPC’s accounts receivable general ledger account to a 
detailed accounts receivable subsidiary ledger.  See AU § 326.19.  E&YUK was told  by TPC that 
this detailed ledger was unavailable, but did not adequately question this assertion.  Instead, 
E&YUK reconciled the general ledger account to a summary listing of aged debt by customer.  
Had E&YUK    reconciled to TPC’s detailed ledger,  they would have seen that the general ledger 
balance, inflated due to premature and fictitious revenue recognition, was far greater than the 
subsidiary ledger balance.   
 
       23.    E&YUK failed to properly confirm accounts receivable.  For fiscal year   2004 
E&YUK relied entirely on alternative procedures, and was able to validate only 7% of its sample 
through that testing.  E&YUK supplemented this by checks to delivery notes, but its work papers 
do not clearly document whether this covered the entire sample or only part thereof.  For the 
fiscal year 2005 audit, 59% of the confirmation sample value was never validated through 
confirmations or alternative procedures.  For the fiscal year 2006 audit, 26% of the sample was 
never validated.   
        
       24.        E&YUK failed to properly document in its work papers, and in its Summary 
Review Memoranda (“SRM”) submitted to E&YUS, the results of its AR testing.  With respect 
to the 2005 audit, E&YUK’s SRM contains no discussion of its confirmation of receivables, 
notwithstanding the fact that E&YUK had been unable to confirm roughly 60% of items tested. 
        
                                                 
7
 Hebb did not work on the 2004 audit engagement, although she had access to the 2004 work papers  in connection 
with her work on the 2005 and 2006 audit engagements.    
                                               6  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

       E&YUK did not adequately review TPC’s journal entries 
 
       25.        During fiscal years 2004-6, TPC booked fictitious revenues via monthly top-side 
journal entries.  Any top-side journal entry to sales should have been a red flag to the the audit 
teams under Respondents’ supervision requiring further investigation.  See                                                                       AU §§ 316.58-62.  
Notwithstanding purported documentation in E&YUK’s work papers that they had reviewed and 
agreed to supporting documentation all “non-standard or significant” journal entries, E&YUK 
failed to detect and investigate TPC’s monthly top-side journal entries to revenue.   
       E&YUK failed to properly audit TPC’s inventories   
 
              26. In order to conceal TPC’s manipulation of costs of revenues, TPC added fictitious 
WIP inventory to TPC’s inventory ledger.  E&YUK failed to detect this manipulation in their 
audits of TPC’s inventories.  While E&YUK staff did attend and observe the year-end physical 
inventory counts at TPC, they failed to perform the crucial audit procedure of ensuring control over 
inventory tags.  Before leaving the count, the audit teams should have obtained a complete list of 
all inventory tags issued in the count, or, alternatively, copies of all of the tag books created as part 
of the physical inventories.  See AU §§ 331 and 316.54.  In each of the audit years in question, the 
audit teams either failed to do this or failed to properly document that it was done.   
 
              27. Therefore, when E&YUK’s audit team reviewed TPC’s final inventory listing 
during the year-end audit, they did not determine that fictitious items had been added.   The 
significance of E&YUK’s failure to properly audit inventories can be seen when TPC’s reported 
inventories for 2004-6 are compared to its restated inventories for the same time period.  
 
         FY                  REPORTED                   RESTATED                Percentage of 
                            INVENTORY                  INVENTORY             Reported Inventory 
                                                                                that actually 
                                                                                   existed 
        2004                  £6,968,000                 £3,250,000                 47% 
        2005                  £9,753,000                 £3,531,000                 36% 
        2006                 £10,973,000                 £3,692,000                 34% 
 
       Respondents’ Improper Professional Conduct 
 
              28. The “applicable professional standards” for accountants practicing before the 
Commission include the PCAOB auditing standards. 
 
              29. PCAOB auditing standards require that the auditor be proficient in accounting 
matters and that the “auditor with final responsibility for the engagement should know, at a 
minimum, the relevant professional accounting and auditing standards and should be 
knowledgeable about the client.”  AU §230.06, Due Professional Care in the Performance of 
Work; see also AU § 210, Training and Proficiency of the Auditor.  AU Section 230 also 
requires an auditor to exercise due professional care and professional skepticism, which includes 
demonstrating a questioning mind and a critical assessment of audit evidence. 
                                               7  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 
              30.        PCAOB auditing standards require that “sufficient competent evidential 
matter…be obtained through inspection, observation, inquiries, and confirmations to afford a 
reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the financial statements under audit.  AU § 326.01 
Evidential Matter.    
 
              31.        Auditors must adequately plan, staff and supervise the audit.  See                                                                              AU § 150.02, 
Generally Accepted Auditing Standards; 230.06; AU § 311.01 et seq.             , Planning and Supervision; 
311.11 et seq.         
 
              32.        Further, AU § 316, Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit                                   , 
requires the auditor to assess the risks of material misstatement due to fraud and to presume that 
revenue recognition is a fraud risk. 
              33. Kelly, as the engagement partner, had overall responsibility for the audit 
engagements to ensure that E&YUK’s audits of TPC were conducted in accordance with PCAOB 
auditing standards, including planning and supervising the audit and the review of field work.  AU § 
311.  During the 2004-6 TPC audits, Kelly unreasonably departed from the PCAOB auditing 
standards in the manner further described below. 
 
              34. Hebb, as the audit manager on the 2005 and 2006 engagements, was responsible for 
supervising and reviewing documentation of field work performed.  During the 2005- 6 TPC audits, 
Hebb unreasonably departed from the PCAOB auditing standards in    the manner further described 
below. 
 
              35. Respondents (and the audit teams under their supervision) failed to obtain sufficient 
competent evidential matter in connection with their audits of TPC’s accounts receivable.  
Respondents failed to properly evaluate the results of their confirmation procedures and did not 
consider whether the unexamined items could be misstatements and the impact of such potential 
misstatements on the accounts receivable balance.  The non-validated sample balances were 
material to TPC’s financial statements and exceeded the tolerable error assigned to the TPC audit 
by E&YUS.   
        
       36.        Respondents failed to evaluate the implications, both quantitative and qualitative, 
of their inability to validate selected receivables.  They did not consider whether the reasons for 
this inability necessitated a change in assessed risks or a reevaluation of the degree of reliance on 
management representations.  AU §§ 316.68, 316.74, and 350.25.  
       37.     The following chart reflects the extent to which E&YUK   failed to substantiate the 
existence of receivables reported by TPC in fiscal years 2004-6, but nonetheless issued unqualified 
audit opinions.  
        

                                                8  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

       FY            Reported AR       Sample Balance        % of Sample         Value of non-
                     Balance (as of         Tested              Balance            validated 
                    date of testing)                         Validated by       sample balance 
                                                               E&YUK 
      2004         £9,136,248          £3,671,012                7%  8
                                                                               £3,420,265 
      2005         £11,195,346         £5,689,114                41%           £3,354,692 
      2006         £11,553,278         £9,095,968                74%           £2,357,305 
        
       38.        Respondents and the audit teams under their supervision failed to properly 
document in E&YUK’s     work papers, and in their Summary Review Memoranda (SRM) 
submitted to E&YUS, the results of E&YUK’s      AR testing.  With respect to the 2005 audit, 
E&YUK’s SRM contains no discussion of its confirmation of receivables, notwithstanding the 
fact that E&YUK had been unable to confirm roughly 60% of the items tested.    
 
       39.        Respondents failed to adequately plan, staff and supervise the audits.  As a result, 
E&YUK failed to properly review TPC’s journal entries and, accordingly , failed to detect and 
investigate TPC’s fictitious top-side journal entries designed to inflate revenue.  Likewise, 
because Respondents failed to adequately plan, staff and supervise the inventory audits, E&YUK 
failed to detect TPC’s manipulation of its inventories.  
        
E.     VIOLATIONS 
        
       40.        Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Section 4C of the 
Exchange Act authorize the Commission to censure or deny, temporarily or permanently, the 
privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission to accountants who are found to have 
engaged in improper professional conduct.  Such improper professional conduct includes 
“repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable 
professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice before the Commission.”  
Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2).   
              41. Respondents’ actions during the engagements were unreasonable, failed to conform 
to applicable professional standards and indicate a lack of competence to practice before the 
Commission.  Respondents failed:  (i) to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter in violation 
of AU § 326;  (ii) to exercise due professional care in the planning and performance of the audit in 
violation of AU §§ 230 and 316;  (iii) to  adhere to the standards for conducting and evaluating the 
results of accounts receivable confirmation procedures in violation of AU §§ 330 and 350; (iv) to 
adhere to standards for observation and testing of physical inventory counts in violation of AU §§ 
331 and 316.54;  (v) adequately to test journal entries for evidence of possible material 
misstatement due to fraud in violation of AU § 316.58-62; and   (vi) properly to plan and supervise 
the audit in violation of AU § 311. 
 
 
                                                 
8
  As noted in ¶ 23 above, E&YUK supplement ed  its 2004 AR testing by checks to delivery notes, but its work 
papers do not clearly document whether this supplemental testing covered the entire sample or only a part thereof.  
                                                9  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

F.     FINDINGS 
 
              42.        As a result of the conduct describe above, the Commission finds that Respondents 
Kelly and Hebb engaged in improper professional conduct pursuant to Rules 102(e)(1)(ii) and 
102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Section 4C of the Exchange Act.   
                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Kelly is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant.   
       B.      After two years from the date of this order, Kelly may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
               1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                            (a) Kelly, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with 
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                             (b) Kelly, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, has been inspected by the Board or equivalent U.K. organization and that inspection 
did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality 
control system that would indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision;                                        

                             (c) Kelly has resolved any disciplinary issues with the Board  or 
equivalent UK organization, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions 
imposed by the Board or equivalent U.K. organization (other than reinstatement by the 
Commission); and 
 
                             (d) Kelly acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Kelly appears or 
practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all requirements 
                                                10   
---------------------Page 11---------------------

of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to 
registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
 
       C.      The Commission will consider an application by Kelly to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his chartered accountant license is current and he 
has resolved any disciplinary issues with the ICAEW.  However, if licensure is dependent on 
reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other 
merits. The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters 
referenced above, any other matters relating to Kelly’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
       D.         Hebb is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant.   
       E.      After two years from the date of this order, Hebb may request that the 
Commission consider her reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
               1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Hebb’s work in her practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which she works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as she practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                            (a)         Hebb, or the public accounting firm with which she is associated, 
is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance 
with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                             (b)        Hebb, or the registered public accounting firm with which she is 
associated, has been inspected by the Board or equivalent U.K. organization and that inspection 
did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality 
control system that would indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision;                                             

                             (c)         Hebb has resolved any disciplinary issues with the Board or 
equivalent UK organization, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions 
imposed by the Board or equivalent U.K. organization (other than reinstatement by the 
Commission); and 
 
                             (d)        Hebb acknowledges her responsibility, as long as Hebb appears or 
practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all requirements 

                                                11   
---------------------Page 12---------------------

of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to 
registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
 
        F.      The Commission will consider an application by Hebb to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that her chartered accountant license is current and she 
has resolved any  disciplinary issues with the ICAEW.  However, if licensure is dependent on 
reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other 
merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters 
referenced above, any other matters relating to Hebb’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
        By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                                                     Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                                                     Secretary 

                                                   12   
