---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                              STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                       the 

                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 60484 / August 12, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3034 / August 12, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-13578 
 
                                               
In the Matter of                             ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
                                             DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
      DOUGLAS K. HUTCHINS,                   SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                             EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING 
Respondent.                                  FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE-
                                             AND-DESIST ORDER  
 
                                             

                                            I.  

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Douglas K. Hutchins (“Hutchins” or 
“Respondent”).1 
               

                                           II.  

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission's jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making 
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   

                                                 
1
 This matter is related to a civil action, Securities and Exchange Commission v. Douglas K. Hutchins, 
Civ. Action No. 1:03-cv-328, filed on July 9, 2009, in which Hutchins has consented to pay a $25,000  
civil penalty.  
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              III.  

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent's Offer, the Commission finds2
                                                                                that: 

       1.      Douglas K. Hutchins, age 37, of Denver, Colorado, was the director of finance for  
Qwest Communications International’s Global Business Markets (“Global Business”) unit and 
reported to the chief financial officer (“CFO”) of Global Business from January 2001 until February  
2002 when Hutchins was promoted to senior director of quality.  Hutchins resigned from Qwest on 
October 12, 2002. 

       2.      Qwest, based in Denver, Colorado, is one of the largest telecommunications and 
Internet services companies in the United States.  Qwest’s common stock is registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act, and the company is obligated to file 
reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q.  Qwest’s common stock is traded on  the New York Stock 
Exchange. 

       3.      In January 2001, the Arizona School Facilities Board (“ASFB”) and Qwest entered 
into agreements providing that Qwest would design and implement a statewide network and provide 
internet and local area network services for Arizona schools using equipment provided by Qwest. 

       4.      The CFO of Global Business told Hutchins that Global Business needed to be 
aggressive in recognizing revenue on the ASFB transaction.  The CFO of Global Business consulted 
with the assistant controller of Qwest and Hutchins and they inappropriately decided to separate the  
equipment sale from the other elements of the ASFB contract and then to improperly characterize 
the sale as a bill and hold transaction to ensure immediate revenue recognition.   

       5.      Hutchins prepared the memorandum incorrectly concluding that Qwest met each 
requirement for a bill and hold transaction and that revenue could be recognized immediately on the 
equipment sale.  The assistant controller of Qwest reviewed and edited the memorandum. 

       6.      Hutchins drafted letter agreements for an ASFB official to sign to fulfill the bill and 
hold requirements, knowing they included terms contrary to the official’s oral agreements with 
Qwest.  The senior vice president (“SVP”) and vice president of sales for the Government and 
Educational Services unit (“GES”) and the assistant controller of Qwest reviewed and edited letter 
agreements, and the SVP of GES signed them. 

       7.      As a result of the scheme, Qwest improperly recognized approximately $34 million 
in revenue on the sale of the equipment in its second quarter ended June  30, 2001.  Accordingly, 
Qwest's June 30, 2001 quarterly report, September 30, 2001 quarterly report, and December 31, 
2001 annual report were materially false and misleading. 

       8.      As a result of the conduct described above, Qwest violated, and Hutchins was a  
cause of Qwest’s violations of, Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 
                                                 
2
  The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding 
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
 
                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

13a-13 thereunder, which require every issuer of a                      security registered pursuant to Section 12 of 
the Exchange Act to file with the Commission information, documents, and annual and quarterly 
reports as the Commission may require, and mandate that periodic reports contain such further 
material information as may be necessary to make the required statements not misleading. 

       9.      As a result of the conduct described above, Qwest violated, and Hutchins was a  
cause of Qwest's violations of, Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, which requires reporting 
companies to make and keep books, records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately 
and fairly reflect their transactions and dispositions of their assets, and Section 13(b)(2)(B), which 
requires all reporting companies to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls  
sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit  
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. 

       10.     Lastly, as a result of the conduct described above, Hutchins violated Section 
13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act, which prohibits persons from knowingly circumventing or knowingly 
failing to implement a system of internal accounting controls, or knowingly falsifying any book, 
record or account, and Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1, which prohibits persons from directly or  
indirectly falsifying or causing to be falsified any book, record, or account subject to Section 
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act.  

                                         Undertakings  
    
       In connection with this action and any related judicial or administrative proceeding or 
investigation commenced by the Commission or  to which the Commission is a party, Respondent 
undertakes to cooperate with the Commission staff and:  (i) agrees to appear and be interviewed  
by Commission staff at such times and places as the staff requests upon reasonable notice; (ii) will 
accept service by mail or facsimile transmission of notices or subpoenas issued by the Commission 
for documents or testimony at depositions, hearings, or trials, or in connection with any related 
investigation by Commission staff; (iii) appoints Respondent’s attorney as agent to receive service  
of such notices and subpoenas; (iv) with respect to such notices and subpoenas, waives the 
territorial limits on service contained in Rule 45 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and any 
applicable local rules, provided that the party requesting the testimony reimburses Respondent’s 
travel, lodging, and subsistence expenses at the then-prevailing U.S. Government per diem rates;   
and (v) consents to personal jurisdiction over Respondent in any United States District Court for 
purposes of enforcing any such subpoena. 
 
       In determining whether to accept the Offer, the Commission has considered these 
undertakings. 
 
                                               IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Hutchins' Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby  ORDERED that: 

                                                3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

            A. Respondent Hutchins cease and desist from committing or causi                                                       ng any violations 
and any future violations of Section 13(b)(5) of  the Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder, and 
from causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder. 

 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                                                              M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                                                          

                                                                                  4
  
