---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                      the 

 SECURITIES                      AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  64380 / May 3, 2011 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT   
Release No.  3274 / May 3, 2011 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-14364 
 
 
                                              ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
In the Matter of                             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO SECTION 
                                             21C OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
      Rockwell Automation, Inc.              OF 1934, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                             IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER  
Respondent. 
 
                                                
 
                                          I.  
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Rockwell Automation, Inc. (“Rockwell” or 
“Respondent”).  
                                            
                                          II.  
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making 
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                            
                                            

 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                 
                                                 
                                               III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds 1
                                                                                 that: 
                                                 
                                           Summary  
 
               1.     This matter involves violations of   the books and records and internal 
controls provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") by Rockwell, through one of its  
former subsidiaries in China, Rockwell Auto mation Power Systems (Shanghai) Ltd. ("RAPS-
China"), which was divested by Rockwell in January, 2007. 
               2.     From 2003 to 2006, certain employees of RAPS-China paid approximately  
$615,000 to Design Institutes, which were typically state-owned enterprises that provided design 
engineering and technical integration services that can influence contract awards by end-user state-
owned customers. The payments were made through  third-party intermediaries at the request of  
Design Institute employees and at the direction  of RAPS-China’s Marketing and Sales Director.  
RAPS-China’s Marketing and Sales Director intended that these funds be paid directly to the 
Design Institute employees, with the expectatio n that they would influence the ultimate state-
owned customers to purchase RAPS products.  While the Design Institutes did provide some bona     
fide engineering and other services in connection with RAPS-China’s end-user contracts, RAPS-
China could not substantiate the specific servic es rendered or the value of those services.   Also  
during the same period, employees of RAPS-C        hina paid approximately $450,000 to fund 
sightseeing and other non-business trips for employees of Design Institutes and other state-owned 
companies.  
               3.     Rockwell realized approximately $1.7 million in net profits on sales 
contracts with end-user Chinese government-owned companies that were associated with  payments  
to the Design Institutes. 
               4.     Rockwell failed to accurately record the payments in its books and records,  
and failed to implement or maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to prevent  
and detect the payments. 
        
                                          Respondent  
 
               5.     Rockwell is a global company engage d in the design and manufacture of 
industrial automation products and services. The company is incorporated in Delaware and has its  
principal executive offices in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.  Rockwell's common stock is registered with 
the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the  Exchange  Act and is listed on the  New York 
Stock Exchange. 
                                                 
       1 
         The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding   
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.                  

 
                                                2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                               
                                               
                                               
                                               
                                   Other Related Entities  
                                               
              6.     RAPS-China was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Rockwell, headquartered  in 
Shanghai, China.  In 2007, in connection with the sale of   its former Power Systems business, 
Rockwell sold RAPS-China to   Baldor Electric Company.    RAPS-China supplied industrial  
mechanical power transmission products and industrial motors and drives. 
                                               
                                            Facts  
 
       A.     RAPS-China  Paid Design Institutes Through Third-Party Intermediaries       
 
              7. During 2003,      RAPS-China opened a manufacturing facility in    Shanghai. 
Among other products, RAPS  manufactured a Controlled Start Transmission    (“CST”), which is 
used in the  mining  industry.  The CST produc t was sold by RAPS-China primarily to Chinese   
government-owned coal mining and processing plants. 
              8.     Design Institutes had an influence on the    Chinese  government-owned  
mining  companies to which RAPS-China sought to sell its  CST product due to their expertise in  
the engineering of systems that included the  CST product.  Between 2003 and 2006, payments   
were made to  Design Institutes in connection with certain CST sales contracts (“DI Payments”).  
              9. 	   RAPS-China made the DI Payments through third-party intermediaries.  
              10.    In all, RAPS-China made approximately $615,000 in DI Payments during 
the period 2003 to 2006.  Although the Design Institutes supplied RAPS-China with bona fide   
technical and engineering services, the RAPS-China Marketing and Sales Director also intended 
the payments to influence sales contracts with end-user Chinese government-owned companies. 
              11. 	  RAPS-China recorded the DI Payments as “cost of sales.” 
        
       B.	      RAPS-China Funded Leisure Travel for  State-Owned Customers and Design  
              Institute Employees  
                                               
              12.    RAPS-China funded travel, including some leisure travel not directly 
related to legitimate business purposes, for employees of Design Institutes and other Chinese 
government-owned companies to  the U.S., Germany and Austra  lia, among other locations.   
Destinations in the U.S. incl uded New York City, Washington D. C., and Hawaii.  These leisure 
trips typically followed business-related travel that was also funded by RAPS-China.   
              13.    Some trips appeared to have no di rect business component, other than the  
development of customer good will.  For exampl  e, RAPS-China arranged for so-called design   
meetings in New York City despite the lack of any Rockwell facility there because "everyone likes 
New York."   
                                              3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

              14.     From 2003 to 2006  , employees of RAPS-China paid approximately 
$450,000 to fund trips not directly related to business purposes for employees of Design Institutes 
and state-owned customers.  Th  ese trips were recorded in Ro  ckwell's books and records as   
business expenses, without any designation that there were reasons not directly connected to the 
negotiation or execution of contracts or to the promotion of the company’s products. 
        
       C.    Discovery, Self-Reporting and Remediation  
                                                  
              15.         Rockwell discovered the DI Payments and the third-party payment 
mechanism in 2006 through its norm  al financial review process.  This process was part of 
Rockwell’s global corporate compliance/internal controls program, which had targeted China for  
enhanced FCPA training and scrutiny starting in  2004.  Upon discovery of  the issue, Rockwell  
hired counsel and investigated the DI Payments with  the oversight of its Board of Directors.  It   
voluntarily self-reported the DI Payments to    the Commission and voluntarily provided the      
Commission Staff with all relevant facts found in the investigation, and otherwise cooperated with 
the Commission.  As a result of the discovery     of this matter, Rock well undertook numerous 
remedial measures, including employee termination and disciplinary actions, enhancements to its  
internal controls and compliance program and c  onducted a broad, global review of its other 
operations. 
        
                                           Violations  
 
              16. The FCPA,       enacted in 1977, added Exchange  Act Section 13(b)(2)(A) to  
require public companies to make and keep books, records,  and accounts, which, in reasonable  
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the issuer.  It  
also added Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(B) to require such companies to devise and maintain a 
system  of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide  reasonable assurances that transactions:   
(i) are executed in  accordance with management's general or  specific authorization; and (ii)  are 
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in  conformity  with generally 
accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such statements, and to maintain 
accountability for assets.  15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(b)(2)(A) and 78m(b)(2)(B). 
              17.     In connection with the payments described above, Rockwell failed to make 
and keep accurate books, records and accounts as required by Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange  
Act.  
              18.     Further, as evidenced by the DI Payments (as described above) and  leisure 
travel payments, Rockwell failed to devise or maintain sufficient  internal controls as required by 
Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. 
         
                                              IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Rockwell’s Offer. 

                                               4
  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 
        Accordingly, it is hereby  ORDERED that: 
 
 A.             Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange   Act, Respondent Rockwell  cease and 
desist from  committing or causing any violations and any future violations  of Sections 13(b)(2)(A)  
and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. 
 
 B.             Respondent shall, within 14 days of the  entry of this Order, pay disgorgement of 
$1,771,000, prejudgment interest of $590,091 and a civil money penalty of $400,000 to the United  
States Treasury.  If timely payment is not made, additional interest     shall accrue pursuant to SEC 
Rule of Practice 600 and 31 USC  3717.  Payment shall be: (A)  made  by wire transfer,  United 
States postal money order, certified check, bank cashier's check or bank money order; (B) made  
payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission; (C) hand-delivered or mailed to the Office of 
Financial Management, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St               reet, NE, Stop 6042, 
Washington, DC 20549; and (D  ) submitted under cover lette  r that identifies Rockwell   as   a 
Respondent in these  proceedings, the file number of  these  proceedings, a copy of which  cover  
letter and  money order  or check shall be sent to Cheryl Scarboro        ,  Division of Enforcement, 
Securities and  Exchange Commission, 100 F St., N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549-5561. 
        C.      Respondent acknowledges that the Commission is not imposing a civil penalty in 
excess of $400,000 based upon its  cooperation in a Commission investigation.  If at any time  
following the entry of the Order, the Division of Enforcement (“Division”) obtains information 
indicating that Respondent knowingly provided materially false or misleading information or 
materials to the Commission or in a related proceeding, the Division may, at its sole discretion and 
without prior notice to the Respondent, petition the Commission to reopen this matter and seek an 
order directing that the Respondent pay an additional civil penalty.  Respondent may not, by way 
of defense to any resulting administrative proceeding:  (1) contest the findings in the Order; or (2) 
assert any defense to liability or remedy, including, but not limited to, any statute of limitations 
defense.    
         
 By the Commission.           
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                        M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                   
 

                                                   5
  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                                           Service List  
 
       Rule 141 of the Commission's Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or another duly 
authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist 
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and 
Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order ("Order"), on the Respondent and its legal agents. 
 
       The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to 
notice:  
 
Honorable Brenda P. Murray 
                             
Chief Administrative Law Judge
                          
Securities and Exchange Commission 
 
100 F Street, N.E. 

Washington, DC 20549-2557 
                    
 
 
Charles Cain, Esq.  
                               
Securities and Exchange Commission 
           
100 F Street, N.E. 

Washington, DC 20549-5553B 
                                               
 
      
Rockwell Automation, Inc. 

c/o Gregory S. Bruch, Esq. 

Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP 

1875 K Street, N.W.
  
Washington, DC  20006-1238 
                         
 
 
Gregory S. Bruch, Esq. 

Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP 

1875 K Street, N.W.
  
Washington, DC  20006-1238 
                         
(Counsel for Rockwell Automation) 

 
 
David S. Simon, Esq. 

Foley & Lardner LLP 

777 East Wisconsin Avenue
  
Suite 3800 

Milwaukee, WI  53202-5306 

(Counsel for Rockwell Automation) 

 

                                                 6
  
