---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                      
                                           
                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  

                                         Before the 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 63061 / October 7, 2010 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3196 / October 7, 2010 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-12502 

                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of 
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Michael S. Joseph, CPA 
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION  
                          
        

       On December 11, 2006, Michael S. Joseph, CPA (“Joseph”) was denied the privilege of 
appearing or practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against Joseph pursuant to Rule 
102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                                    This order is issued in response to Joseph’s 
application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant 
responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed with the 
Commission. 

       The Commission found that in 2001 Joseph violated certain of the antifraud, reporting, 
and recordkeeping provisions of the federal securities laws, as well as auditor independence 
standards, while he was a partner in the national office of Ernst & Young LLP (E&Y”).  
Specifically, Joseph helped develop and market an accounting product for one E&Y client, 
American International Group, Inc. and then worked with an E&Y audit team to advise an E&Y 
audit client, PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (“PNC”), on the accounting treatment for a 
version of that product.  As a result of his advice, PNC improperly excluded certain assets from  
its consolidated financial statements.  The improper accounting was included in several Forms 
10-Q and certain registration statements for PNC securities.   
 
       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Joseph 
                                                 
1 
 See  Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2523 dated December 11, 2006.  Joseph was permitted,    
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after three years upon making certain showings.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                     

attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Joseph is not, at this time, seeking to appear 
or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume  
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be      
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Joseph’s 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order.  
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”     2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific.  
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Joseph, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the December 11, 2006 order 
denying him the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, 
that no information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, 
integrity, professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be 
a basis for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of 
Practice, and that Joseph, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit 
committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, in his practice before the Commission as a preparer     or reviewer of financial 
statements required to be filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  
Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Michael S. Joseph, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                               
                                               
                                              Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                              Secretary 
  

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3)  
of this section may be made at any time, and the applic ant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated                         
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i).                        
 

                                                 2
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                              

                                      SERVICE LIST
  
 
Michael S. Joseph 

16708 Flying Jib Rd. 

Cornelius, NC 28031 

(704) 896-8654 

                                            

                                              3
 
