---------------------Page 1---------------------

                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                            the 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 62666 / August 9, 2010 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3171 / August 9, 2010 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13997 
 
                                                      
                                                      
In the Matter of                                     ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                     ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
       DOHAN + COMPANY CPAs,                         PURSUANT TO SECTION 4C OF THE 
       STEVEN H. DOHAN, CPA,                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
       NANCY L. BROWN, CPA, and                      AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
       EREZ BAHAR, CA,                               COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE  
 
Respondents. 
 
 
                                                     
 
                                                I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Dohan + Company CPAs 
(“Dohan + Co.”), Steven H. Dohan, CPA (“Dohan”), Nancy L. Brown, CPA (“Brown”), and Erez 
Bahar, CA (“Bahar”) (collectively, “Respondents”) pursuant to Section 4C 1
                                                                           of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of  
Practice to determine whether Respondents engaged in improper professional conduct.  2 
                                                                                       
                                                 
1
 Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  “The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or                         
permanently, to any person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person  
is found . . . (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications   to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character or  
integrity, or to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully violated, or    
willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision   of the securities laws or the rules and regulations                         
thereunder.” 
 
2 
 Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that:  “The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, 
the privilege of appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or                                          
improper professional conduct.”   
                                                    
  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                
                                              II.  
 
       After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement and the Office of the Chief Accountant 
allege that: 
 
A. SUMMARY     
 
       1.      These proceedings arise out of Respondents’ improper professional conduct during 
their audit of International Commercial Television, Inc.’s (“ICTV”) 2007 financial statements.  
During fiscal year 2007, ICTV improperly recognized revenue and incorrectly recorded product 
returns, resulting in a material overstatement of revenue and net income.  Respondents’ audit of 
ICTV’s 2007 financial statements recklessly failed to comply with numerous Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) auditing standards.  These included failing to demonstrate 
the required level of proficiency, failing to exercise due care and professional skepticism, failing to  
obtain sufficient evidential matter, and failing to plan and supervise the audit staff.  As a result, 
Respondents Dohan, Brown, and Bahar caused Respondent   Dohan + Co. to issue an unqualified 
audit report for ICTV’s 2007 Form  10-K/SB that falsely stated that the audit had been conducted in  
accordance with the PCAOB’s auditing standards and that  ICTV’s financial statements were fairly  
reported in conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”).  Respondents’ 
conduct, as further described below, constituted improper professional conduct within the meaning 
of Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) and (iv) and Section 4C of the Exchange Act. 
 
B.      RESPONDENTS 
 
       2.      Dohan + Company CPAs is an accounting and auditing firm based in Miami, 
Florida.  The firm provides services to public companies registered with the Commission and has 
been registered with the PCAOB since October 2003.  The firm conducted audits of ICTV’s  
financial statements for the years ended 2004, 2005, 2006, and 2007.  As auditor, Dohan + Co. 
opined that ICTV’s financial statements were prepared in conformity with GAAP and that  
Dohan + Co. had conducted audits in accordance with the PCAOB’s standards. 

       3.      Steven H. Dohan, CPA, age 62, is a resident of Miami, Florida.  Dohan is the 
founder and managing director of Dohan + Co. and was the concurring partner on the ICTV audits 
and quarterly reviews during the relevant period.  Dohan is a Certified Public Accountant licensed 
in Florida. 

       4.      Nancy L. Brown, CPA, age 58, is a resident of Miami, Florida.  Until recently, 
Brown was a director at Dohan + Co. and was the engagement partner on the ICTV audits and 
quarterly reviews during the relevant period.  Brown is a Certified Public Accountant licensed in 
Florida. 

       5.      Erez Bahar, CA, age 32, is a resident of Vancouver, Canada.  Bahar is a principal 
at Davidson & Company, LLP (“Davidson”) and was the manager on the field work performed by 
Davidson on the ICTV audits and quarterly reviews during the relevant period.  Bahar holds an  
active Chartered Accountant designation issued in 2004 in British Columbia, Canada. 
                                                
 
                                              2 

---------------------Page 3---------------------

C. RELATED PARTIES 
 
       6.       International Commercial Television, Inc. is a Nevada corporation headquartered 
in Bainbridge Island, Washington.  Founded in 2001, the Company sells health and beauty 
products internationally via infomercials and through various televised shopping networks.  
ICTV’s common stock is registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and is quoted on the 
Pink Sheets under the symbol “ICTL.” 

       7.       Davidson & Company, LLP is an accounting and auditing firm based in 
Vancouver, Canada.  Davidson performed the field work for Dohan + Co. on the ICTV audits and 
quarterly reviews during the relevant period.  The  firm has been registered with the PCAOB since 
December 2003. 
 
D. FACTS 
 
        ICTV’s Improper Revenue Recognition  
 
       8.       ICTV is a marketer of consumer retail  goods, specializing in “fountain of youth” 
health and beauty products it owns or holds the right to sell.  ICTV’s best-selling product is the 
Derma Wand, a skin care appliance that purportedly “reduces fine lines and wrinkles and improves  
overall skin appearance.”  

       9.       ICTV sells product through two main channels:  (1) direct sales to end users via 
infomercials produced by ICTV (“direct sales”), and (2) distribution through third-party 
distributors for sell-through to end users.  ICTV’s distributors include televised shopping networks  
such as the Home Shopping Network (“HSN”). 

       10.     Over a six-quarter period from early 2007 and continuing into 2008, ICTV 
improperly recognized revenue on sales through HSN.  In addition, ICTV failed to properly record 
revenue, and estimate and account for returns, for product sold through its direct sales channels. 

       11.     ICTV began selling product through HSN in 2007, predominantly through a “drop-
ship” contract entered into between ICTV and HSN in or about May 2007.  Under the drop-ship  
contract, HSN did not purchase the product itself, but instead facilitated sales to HSN’s customers 
(i.e., the end users).  Generally, HSN sent ICTV written requests to pre-order product that would 
be sold during future HSN television broadcasts.  ICTV retained title to the product until HSN sold 
the product on-air to its customers and the product was shipped to the end users.  HSN did not 
guarantee the purchase of any product, and any unsold product remained under the ownership of 
ICTV.  The contract also allowed HSN to return any product from its customers up to 60 days after 
delivery to the customer.3 
                          

                                                 
3
 ICTV also sold product directly to HSN under the terms  of a separate, “traditional” contract, in which HSN issued                                        
a purchase order, retrieved the product, sold the product to end users, and paid ICTV after the sell-through.     
However, only the first HSN sale was made per the terms of the traditional contract.  All other sales were made per  
the drop-ship arrangement.  
                                                  
 
                                                 3 

---------------------Page 4---------------------

       12.     Despite these contractual provisions governing sell-through and right of return, 
ICTV recognized revenue in most cases upon HSN’s order of the product, before HSN sold 
through to its customers and before the right of return expired.  In some instances, ICTV also  
recognized revenue without a corresponding written request from HSN.  In those cases, ICTV 
booked HSN sales upon alleged confirmation from its third-party fulfillment warehouse that 
product had been physically segregated for HSN’s use. 

       13.     ICTV failed to ensure that HSN sold through the  units booked by the end of the 
quarter, resulting in a mounting accounts receivable balance with each successive HSN order.  This 
accounting treatment violated multiple revenue recognition criteria under Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (“GAAP”). 

       14.     In addition to prematurely recognizing revenue on sales through HSN, ICTV also 
booked revenue in 2007 on a product  that failed an HSN quality control inspection and was never 
sold through HSN.  The purported sale remained on ICTV’s books through the 2007 audit and was  
not reversed until ICTV issued a restated Form 10-K/SB in March 2009. 

       15.     In total, ICTV booked seven HSN sales in 2007 totaling $2.8 million.  This figure 
was reported in ICTV’s trial balance and ultimately reported by ICTV in its 2007 Form 10-K.  
Respondents’ working papers allege that the auditors tested the HSN sales and traced certain of the  
sales to ICTV’s sales journal, which in turn showed the amount that ICTV booked as revenue.  A 
list of each HSN sale recognized for 2007 is attached hereto as Appendix A. 

       16.     Each HSN sale set forth in Appendix A was improperly recognized, resulting in a 
material overstatement of revenue for ICTV’s fiscal 2007. 

       17.     ICTV also failed to properly record revenue on its direct sales.  ICTV provided its  
direct sales customers a 30-day free trial period whereby the customer could try the ordered 
product prior to purchase, and billed customers upon expiration of the 30-day period.  Despite this 
provision, ICTV recognized revenue upon shipment of the product, and before expiration of the 
trial period, in violation of GAAP.  ICTV also failed to properly estimate and record product 
returns on direct sales. 

       18.     Over the course of the six-quarter period, ICTV filed periodic reports with the 
Commission on Forms 10-Q and 10-K.  As a result of the improper accounting discussed above, 
ICTV reported materially inflated revenue and net income to investors and to the Commission.  
Investors determining whether to buy or sell ICTV stock were thus basing their decisions on false 
information about ICTV’s financial performance. 

       ICTV’s Restatement  

       19.     In October 2008, ICTV announced that it intended to restate its financial statements  
for the fiscal year ended 2007 and the first two quarters of 2008 as a result of improper revenue  
recognition.  ICTV filed its restated Form 10-K/A for fiscal year 2007 on March 31, 2009.  The 
restatement resulted in a $1.4 million reduction in 2007 revenue related to the HSN errors, and an 
$840,000 reduction in 2007 revenue related to the failure to properly record direct sales returns. 

                                                 
 
                                               4 

---------------------Page 5---------------------

       20.     In March 2010, ICTV’s new outside auditors uncovered additional revenue 
recognition errors and ICTV reported that it intended to restate its previously-restated financial 
statements for the fiscal year ended 2007 and the first two quarters of 2008.  In April 2010, ICTV 
again restated its financial statements for the fiscal year ended 2007.  The restatement included an 
additional $550,000 revenue reduction related to the premature recognition of direct sales revenue 
prior to expiration of a free trial period. 

       21.     The chart below shows that the errors were material to ICTV’s financial statements: 

     Period Previously                   Restated Net          Reduction to Reported Net 
                     Reported Net        Income (Loss)                   Income 
                        Income 
    FY 2007            $1,475,775         ($1,081,988) ($2,557,763)                 
    1Q 2008             $109,980           ($164,773) ($274,753) 
    2Q 2008             $260,298           ($862,399) ($1,122,697)                  
 

       Applicable Revenue Recognition Principles and Guidance  
 
       22.     The basic principles of revenue recognition under GAAP provide that revenue must 
be realized or realizable and earned before it can be recognized.  SEC  Staff Accounting Bulletin 
(“SAB”) No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements (as superseded in part by SAB 
No. 104, Revenue Recognition), reflects these basic principles of revenue recognition and provides 
guidance in the application of GAAP with respect to recognizing revenue.  SAB 101 sets forth four 
criteria that must be considered when determining whether revenue has been realized or realizable 
and earned.  Specifically, revenue generally may be recognized when persuasive evidence of an 
arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the seller’s price is fixed or determinable, and 
collectibility is reasonably assured. 

       23.     GAAP also provides that, when a right of return exists, revenue can be recognized 
at the time of sale only if all of the following conditions are met:  (1) the seller’s price is 
substantially fixed or determinable at the date of sale; (2) the buyer has paid, or the buyer is 
obligated to pay and the obligation is not contingent on resale of the product; (3) the buyer’s 
obligation would not be changed in the event of theft, physical destruction, or damage of the 
product; (4) the buyer acquiring the product for resale has economic substance apart from that 
provided by the seller; (5) the seller does not have significant obligations for future performance to 
directly bring about resale of the product by the buyer; and (6) the amount of future returns can be 
reasonably estimated.  Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 48, Revenue Recognition 
When Right of Return Exists. 

       Respondents’ Deficient 2007 Audit  
 
       Background  
 
       24.     Dohan + Co. issued the audit report filed with ICTV’s 2007 financial statements  
and reviewed ICTV’s quarterly statements during 2007 through the second quarter of 2008. 
                                                 
 
                                               5 

---------------------Page 6---------------------

       25.     Dohan + Co. contracted with Davidson to provide an audit manager and senior 
accountant to perform the field work at ICTV.  Dohan + Co. and Davidson had worked together in 
a similar arrangement on several other engagements.  Under PCAOB auditing standards, the staff 
sharing arrangement between Dohan + Co. and Davidson was subject to the supervision rules and 
responsibilities set forth in AICPA Codification of Statements on Auditing Standards (as adopted 
and amended by the PCAOB) (“AU”) § 311, Planning and Supervision.   

       26.     Dohan + Co. reviewed the Davidson working papers and satisfied itself with both 
the quality and the amount of work performed by Davidson.  The firm also made the decision to 
adopt the Davidson working papers, with little modification, and performed few additional 
substantive procedures. 

       27.     The audit team for the 2007 ICTV audit primarily consisted of Brown, the 
engagement partner; Dohan, the concurring partner; Bahar, the audit manager; and a senior 
accountant who conducted all substantive audit procedures and field work (the “Senior 
Accountant”).  The Senior Accountant conducted the onsite work for the  audit over a two-to-three 
day period in March 2008.  Bahar’s responsibilities included planning the  audit, supervising the  
onsite work and reviewing any work performed by the Senior Accountant.  Brown’s  
responsibilities included the overall planning and supervision of the audit.  Dohan’s responsibilities 
included providing an objective review of the audit and the financial statements that were the 
subject of the report. 

       The Auditors’ Working Papers  

       28.     On their face, the year-end 2007 audit working papers reveal that Respondents 
knew of an agreement between ICTV and HSN that claimed to contribute to a 280% increase in 
revenue over fiscal year-end 2006.  The revenue lead sheet stated: 

       The Company is also now using the Home Shopping Network for sales in the US market.  
       HSN buys product from the Company (DermaWand and CellRX so far) and features the 
       product on various shows.  The Company records the sales once HSN has placed the order 
       and the order has been shipped.  HSN does not pay until they have sold the products.  This 
       process sometimes takes a few months as HSN will pre-order for future shows. 

       29.     A similar notation appeared on the accounts receivable lead sheet: 

       HSN buys a certain amount of product from the Company prior to showing the 
       infomercials.  The Company records the sale at this time.  HSN pays the Company once the 
       product has actually been sold. 

       30.     The year-end 2007 audit working papers also documented that the HSN 
relationship was a new and material development  in ICTV’s business.  An analytical review 
worksheet highlighted a 280% increase in ICTV’s annual sales revenue, from $3 million in 2006 to 
$11.3 million in 2007 due to “an agreement with the Home Shopping Network during the year to 
sell the Company’s product.”  The worksheet also  reported a 414% increase to accounts receivable, 
from $555,000 in 2006 to $2.9 million in 2007, as a result of increased sales. The material increase 
in ICTV’s revenue, ICTV’s new relationship with  HSN, the contingent payment terms associated 
                                                
 
                                              6 

---------------------Page 7---------------------

with that relationship, and Respondents’ knowledge of ICTV’s deficient internal controls, among 
other factors, required Respondents to apply heightened scrutiny to the ICTV audit. 

       Audit Failures by Bahar, Brown, Dohan, and Dohan + Co.  

       31.     Bahar and Brown both reviewed and signed off on the working papers.  Dohan, 
before signing off on the audit, reviewed the majority of the working papers, including the revenue, 
accounts receivable, and analytical review working papers.  Thus, Bahar, Brown, Dohan, and 
Dohan + Co. each knew of certain terms of ICTV’s arrangement with HSN, including that HSN 
did not pay ICTV until it sold the product to end users.  This should have alerted Respondents that 
ICTV’s revenue recognition practices did not comply with GAAP. 

       32.     Indeed, Dohan understood at the time of the audit that the sell-through of ICTV’s 
product by HSN presented a revenue recognition issue under SAB 101, but failed to research the  
issue at the time of his review nor direct any other member of the audit team to research the issue.   

       33.     Despite knowledge of the above, Respondents recklessly, highly unreasonably, 
and/or unreasonably failed to properly audit ICTV’s revenue recognition practices.  For example, 
Bahar, Brown, Dohan, and Dohan + Co. failed to obtain a copy of the applicable agreement 
between ICTV and HSN.  Bahar knew that ICTV had a “business arrangement” with HSN to sell  
product, and was aware that the working papers stated that ICTV entered into an “agreement” with  
HSN.  Brown knew that there was an agreement between ICTV and HSN to sell ICTV’s product.  
Dohan knew that ICTV’s revenue and accounts receivable had increased “dramatically” in 2007 as 
a result of an agreement entered into with HSN.  Yet, Bahar, Brown, Dohan, and Dohan + Co. each  
failed to inquire as to the existence of any written agreement and failed to obtain a copy of any 
written agreement.  Respondents’ failure to inquire about the terms of the applicable ICTV 
agreement with HSN, to obtain a copy of the agreement, or to adequately understand the nature of 
ICTV’s relationship with HSN was  an extreme departure from professional standards.  Because of 
these failures, Bahar, Brown, Dohan, and Dohan + Co. failed to recognize that under the HSN 
drop-ship agreement, no sale occurred, and revenue should not have been recognized, until the 
product was sold to end users. 

       34.     Respondents also failed to issue audit confirmations to confirm ICTV’s accounts  
receivable and inventory, or perform adequate alternative procedures.  Bahar, Brown, Dohan, and 
Dohan + Co. knew that their own audit program called for the confirmations of receivables and 
inventory.  Had confirmations been sent and received by the auditors, Respondents could have 
learned that the sales and inventory levels reported by ICTV were not supported. 

       35.     Bahar, Brown, and Dohan + Co. also neglected to perform other audit procedures 
dictated by the audit program.  For example, the audit program required the auditors to review and 
attend physical inventory counts.  This step was marked “NA” in the working papers, indicating 
that it was not performed.  The audit program  also recommended that the auditors consider 
extended procedures to confirm sales terms and conditions with customers; this step was marked 
“NA” as well.  Dohan knew that these procedures were not performed. 

                                                
 
                                               7 

---------------------Page 8---------------------

       36.     The working papers also contain a number  of internal inconsistencies that should 
have been resolved by Respondents.  For instance, although the revenue and accounts receivable 
lead sheets described how HSN did not pay ICTV until sell-through, which sometimes took “a few 
months,” the working papers elsewhere indicated that there were no “unusual or long payment 
terms” or “buyer conditions which must be met in order to complete the sale.”  In addition, the  
revenue working papers reported that cash had been received for a $990,000 sale to HSN on 
December 21, 2007, while the accounts receivable working papers reported the $990,000 balance 
as still outstanding.  Bahar, Brown, Dohan, and Dohan + Co. failed to reconcile any of these 
inconsistencies during their review of the working papers. 

       37.     Bahar, Brown, and Dohan + Co. also failed to properly audit ICTV’s stated revenue 
and returns for direct consumer sales.  The working papers do not reflect that the audit team  
considered ICTV’s revenue recognition practices for such sales in light of the 30-day free trial 
period extended to direct sales customers.  The working papers also do not show that the auditors 
performed any substantive testing of ICTV’s stated returns for direct sales, or that the auditors 
considered the impact of applicable GAAP guidance on estimating future returns for such sales.  
The auditors also failed to reconcile an inherent inconsistency between ICTV’s stated returns and 
its disclosed historical return rate for direct consumer sales. 

       The Auditors Issue Unqualified Audit Reports on ICTV’s 2007 Financial Statements 
       Despite Numerous Audit Failures  

       38.     Despite these failures, Bahar, Brown, and Dohan caused Dohan + Co. to issue an 
unqualified audit report on ICTV’s 2007 financial statements, which falsely represented that the 
audit had been conducted in accordance with the PCAOB’s auditing standards and that ICTV’s 
financial statements were fairly reported in conformity with GAAP.  The audit completion 
documents, which included a checklist and the auditors’ assessment  that the audit was complete, 
reflect that Bahar, Brown, and Dohan were each satisfied with the work performed and signed off 
on the release of the audit report. 

       39.     Respondents also conducted the audit and review work on ICTV’s restatement for 
the fiscal year ended 2007 and the first two quarters of 2008.  In March 2009, Dohan + Co. issued  
an unqualified audit report on ICTV’s restated 2007 financial statements.  The restatement working 
papers indicate that Bahar, Brown, and Dohan each reviewed the restated financial statements and 
signed off on the release of the audit report. 

       40.     In September 2009, ICTV retained new auditors.  The new auditors found 
additional revenue recognition errors and brought them to ICTV’s attention.  Based upon this 
information, ICTV concluded that the restated 2007 financial statements needed to be restated.  
This additional restatement and information arising in connection with PCAOB inquiries further 
call into question Dohan + Co.’s competence under applicable PCAOB standards.   

       Respondents’ Improper Professional Conduct  
        
       41.     The “applicable professional standards” for accountants practicing before the 
Commission include the PCAOB auditing standards. 
                                                 
 
                                               8 

---------------------Page 9---------------------

       42.     PCAOB auditing standards require that the auditor be proficient in accounting 
matters and that the “auditor with final responsibility for the engagement should know, at a 
minimum, the relevant professional accounting and auditing standards and should be 
knowledgeable about the client.”  AU § 230.06, Due Professional Care in the Performance of 
Work; see also AU § 210, Training and Proficiency of the Auditor.  AU Section 230 also requires 
an auditor to exercise due professional care and professional skepticism, which includes 
demonstrating a questioning mind and a critical assessment of audit evidence. 

       43.     PCAOB auditing standards require that “competent evidential matter . . . be 
obtained through inspection, observation, inquiries, and confirmations to afford a reasonable basis  
for an opinion regarding the financial  statements under audit.”  AU § 326.01, Evidential Matter. 
This “includes both written and electronic information such as . . . contracts.”  AU § 326.17.  The 
auditor is also to send out audit confirmations.  AU § 330, The Confirmation Process. 

       44.     Auditors must adequately plan, staff, and supervise the audit.  See AU §§ 150.02, 
Generally Accepted Auditing Standards; 210.01; 230.06; 311.01 et seq., Planning and Supervision; 
311.11 et seq.         This includes “obtain[ing] a level of knowledge of the entity’s business that will 
enable” the auditor to understand transactions and practices that  may have a significant effect on 
the financial statements.  AU § 311.06. 

       45.     Further, AU § 316, Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit, requires 
the auditor to assess the risks of material misstatement due to fraud and to presume that revenue 
recognition is a fraud risk. 

       46.     As audit manager, Bahar was responsible for supervising and reviewing 
documentation of field work performed.  As  the engagement partner, Brown had overall 
responsibility for the engagement to ensure that Dohan + Co.’s audit of ICTV’s 2007 financial 
statements was conducted in accordance with PCAOB auditing standards,  including planning and 
supervising the audit and the review of field work.  Dohan, as the concurring partner, knew that his 
role was to “give a fresh, clean look at a job, to provide a fresh set of eyes on the engagement, and 
to assist where necessary in making sure the engagement goes out to the best of the firm’s ability.” 

       47.     Indeed, Dohan and Brown were already on notice that the PCAOB had identified 
material audit deficiencies with respect to many of the auditing standards discussed above, per an 
inspection of Dohan + Co. by the PCAOB prior to Respondents’ 2007 ICTV audit.  As a result of 
that inspection, Dohan and Brown learned that the PCAOB found a number of deficiencies 
regarding the firm’s audits of other clients, including the failure to adequately test revenue and to 
obtain sufficient evidential matter, as well as deficiencies in Dohan + Co.’s quality control 
procedures, including concurring partner reviews. 

       48.     During the 2007 ICTV audit, Respondents recklessly, highly unreasonably, and/or  
unreasonably departed from the PCAOB auditing standards in numerous instances, including in the  
manner further described below. 

       49.     Respondents failed to demonstrate the required level of proficiency.  Brown and 
Bahar were not aware of applicable GAAP guidance that prohibit revenue recognition if payment 

                                                 
 
                                               9 

---------------------Page 10---------------------

of the related sales receivable was dependent upon sell-through by the customer.  Although Dohan 
was aware of some of the applicable GAAP guidance, and knew that ICTV’s revenue recognition 
practices potentially violated GAAP, he failed to conduct additional research or direct another 
member of the audit team to follow up. 

       50.     Respondents failed to obtain sufficient evidential matter.  Bahar, Brown, Dohan, 
and Dohan + Co. failed to understand, or obtain a copy of, ICTV’s written contract with HSN, 
despite the fact that each knew that ICTV had an “agreement” or “business arrangement” with 
HSN to sell ICTV’s product.  In addition, Bahar, Brown, and Dohan each reviewed the working 
papers that expressly stated that ICTV’s revenue had materially increased in 2007 due to an 
“agreement” with HSN. 

       51.     Respondents failed to exercise due professional care and skepticism in the face of 
numerous red flags and inconsistencies.  Bahar, Brown, Dohan, and Dohan + Co. never asked 
ICTV for a copy of any HSN agreement or documentation of the terms of the agreement.  Brown, 
Bahar, and Dohan + Co. ignored or disregarded specific audit program steps regarding, among 
others, long payment terms, buyer conditions in the sale of product, the confirmation of significant 
accounts receivable, and the observation of physical inventory counts.  Dohan, during his review, 
either agreed that such procedures were not necessary or failed to identify his fellow auditors’ 
disregard for these auditing steps.  Bahar, Brown, Dohan, and Dohan + Co. also failed to reconcile 
numerous inconsistencies during their review of the working papers. 

       52.     Respondents failed to send out accounts receivable confirmations as required by the 
audit program or to ensure adequate alternative procedures.  Further, Brown, Bahar, and Dohan + 
Co. knew that the audit program  also recommended that they send out sales terms and conditions  
and inventory confirmations but elected not to do so.  Dohan supported these decisions despite his 
belief that ICTV’s revenue recognition practice with respect to HSN presented an issue under SAB 
101 and with the knowledge that the audit program recommended these confirmations be sent. 

       53.     Respondents failed to adequately plan, staff and supervise the audit.  Bahar failed to 
adequately supervise the Senior Accountant during the course of the audit.  Bahar was never onsite 
with the Senior Accountant during the field work.  Had he done so, he might have discovered 
inconsistencies contained within the working papers, including that his staff claimed to have 
vouched HSN sales to alleged purchase orders that stated, “This is not a purchase order!”  Bahar  
also never asked the Senior Accountant to review certain applicable GAAP requirements 
governing revenue recognition in connection with the audit.  Brown never visited ICTV or the 
Davidson office, and relied upon Bahar to manage all of the field work.  Dohan failed to ensure  
that Brown and Bahar were adequately proficient to conduct the audit. 

       54.     Brown, Bahar, and Dohan + Co. failed to sufficiently understand ICTV’s business 
to enable them to understand transactions that had a significant effect on ICTV’s financial 
statements.  Brown, Bahar, and Dohan + Co. failed to identify the impact of  ICTV’s 30-day free 
trial period, or applicable GAAP standards prohibiting revenue recognition prior to customer 
acceptance where a trial or evaluation period exists.  The working papers also do not reflect that 
Brown, Bahar, or Dohan + Co. performed any substantive testing of ICTV’s stated returns for 
direct sales, or that they considered the impact of applicable GAAP guidance on estimating future 
                                                 
 
                                              10 

---------------------Page 11---------------------

returns for such sales.  The auditors also failed to reconcile an inherent inconsistency between 
ICTV’s stated returns and its disclosed historical return rate for direct consumer sales. 

       55.     Finally, Respondents also failed to consider other Standards of Field Work  
contained in AU Section 300, including AU Section 316, Consideration of Fraud in a Financial 
Statement Audit; AU Section 329, Analytical Procedures; and AU Section 331, Inventories. 

E. VIOLATIONS 
 
       As a result of the conduct described above, Respondents engaged in improper professional 
conduct as defined in Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) and (iv), in that their 
conduct constituted (A) intentional or knowing conduct, including reckless conduct, that resulted in  
violation of applicable professional standards,  or in the alternative, (B) negligent conduct, 
consisting of (1) a single instance of highly unreasonable conduct that resulted in a violation of 
applicable professional standards in circumstances in which Respondents knew, or should have  
known, that heightened scrutiny was warranted, or (2) repeated instances of unreasonable conduct 
by Respondents, each resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a 
lack of competence to practice before the Commission. 
 
                                              III.  
 
       In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement and the Office of the 
Chief Accountant, the Commission deems it necessary and appropriate that public administrative 
proceedings be instituted to determine:  
 
       A.     Whether the allegations set forth in Section II are true and, in connection 
therewith, to afford Respondents an opportunity to establish any defenses to such allegations; 
and 
        
       B.     What, if any, remedial action is appropriate against Respondents pursuant to Rule 
102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, including, but not limited to, censure and/or 
denying, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission. 
        
                                              IV. 
                                                 
       IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on 
the questions set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened at a time and place to be fixed, and 
before an Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice [17 C.F.R. § 201.110]. 
 
       IT IS HEREBY FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents shall file an Answer to the 
allegations contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as 
provided by Rule 220 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice [17 C.F.R. § 201.220]. 
        
        
                                                 
 
                                               11 

---------------------Page 12---------------------

        If Respondents fail to file the directed Answer, or fail to appear at a hearing after being 
duly notified, the Respondents may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be determined 
against them upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be deemed to be true 
as provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f), and 310 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice [17 
C.F.R. §§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f), and 201.310]. 
 
        This Order shall be served upon Respondents in accordance with the provisions of Rule 
141 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice [17 C.F.R. § 201.141]. 
         
        IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an initial 
decision no later than 300 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to Rule 360(a)(2) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice [17 C.F.R. §201.360(a)(2)]. 
 
        In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission 
engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually related 
proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter, except as 
witness or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice.  Since this proceeding is not “rule 
making” within the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it is not deemed 
subject to the provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any final Commission action. 
         
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                            M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                      

                                                       
 
                                                     12 

---------------------Page 13---------------------

 
                                             Service List  
 
        Rule 141 of the Commission's Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or another duly 
authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order Instituting Public 
Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 4C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and 
Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice (“Order”), on the Respondents and their legal 
agents. 
 
        The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to 
notice: 
 
Honorable Brenda P. Murray                              
Chief Administrative Law Judge                          
Securities and Exchange Commission  
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-2557                        
                                                   
John Yun, Esq.                                       
San Francisco Regional Office                                            
Securities and Exchange Commission               
44 Montgomery Street, Suite 2600                 
San Francisco, CA 94104                             
 
Jason Habermeyer, Esq.                                       
San Francisco Regional Office                                            
Securities and Exchange Commission               
44 Montgomery Street, Suite 2600                 
San Francisco, CA 94104              
 
Dohan + Company CPAs 
7700 North Kendall Drive, Suite 200 
Miami, FL 33156 
 
Mr. Steven H. Dohan                              
Dohan + Company CPAs 
7700 North Kendall Drive, Suite 200 
Miami, FL 33156 
 
Ms. Nancy L. Brown 
Dohan + Company CPAs 
7700 North Kendall Drive, Suite 200 
Miami, FL 33156 
 
 

                                                     
 
                                                  13 

---------------------Page 14---------------------

 
 
Mr. Erez Bahar 
Davidson & Company LLP  
1200-609 Granville Street  
P.O. Box 10372, Pacific Centre 
Vancouver, BC V7Y 1G6 
Canada  
 
Michael Tarre, Esq. 

Two South Biscayne Boulevard, Suite 3700 

Miami, FL 33131 
                   
(Counsel for Dohan + Company CPAs and Steven H. Dohan) 

 
Susan E. Trench, Esq. 

Goldstein, Tanen & Trench, P.A. 

One Biscayne Tower, Suite 3700 

Two South Biscayne Boulevard 

Miami, FL 33131 

(Counsel for Nancy L. Brown) 

 
Murray A. Clemons, Q.C. 

Nathanson Schachter & Thompson LLP 

750-900 Howe Street 

Vancouver, BC V6Z 2M4 

Canada 

(Counsel for Erez Bahar) 

 
Christopher Wells, Esq. 

Lane Powell PC 

1420 Fifth Avenue, Suite 4100 

Seattle, WA 98101 

(Counsel for Erez Bahar) 


                                              
 
                                            14 

---------------------Page 15---------------------

 

                                                               
 
                                                            15 

---------------------Page 16---------------------

                                    Appendix A 
                                           
                   Improperly Recognized 2007 HSN Sales By ICTV 
                                           
      DATE AMOUNT                                UNITS               PRODUCT 
     2/22/2007 $89,050.50                         1,799 Derma              Wand 
     6/12/2007 $198,049.50                        4.001             Derma Wand 
     6/15/2007 $297,000.00                        6,000             Derma Wand 
     9/30/2007 $1,028,362.50                      20,775 Derma             Wand 
    11/19/2007 $93,598.25                         3,499 Cell               RX 
    12/21/2007 $990,000.00                        20,000            Derma Wand 
    12/26/2007 $200,574.00                        4,052             Derma Wand 
                                                       
      TOTAL $2,896,634.75                            
                                           

                                           
  
