---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                          the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 61113 / December 4, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3072 / December 4, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13704 
                                            
                                             : 
                                           :       
                                           :        
       In the Matter of                    :      ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                             :    PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
              ROBERT BERNSTEIN,            :      102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                             :    PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
              Respondent.                  :      IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                       : 
                                                       : 
____________________________________ :              
                                                   
                                              I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Robert 
Bernstein (“Respondent” or “Bernstein”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules  
of Practice.1 
              
                                                

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III(3)  below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
  
              1.      Bernstein, age 44, passed the CPA exam in New York but does not have a 
license to practice accounting in any state.  He served as controller of American Home Mortgage 
Investment Corp. (“AHM” or the “Company”) from December 2002 until June 2008. 
        
                          2. AHM is a Maryland corporation headquartered in Melville, New York.  In 
2006, AHM was one of the nation’s largest home mortgage lenders.  AHM’s common and 
preferred stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities                        
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”).  Through the first quarter of 2007, AHM filed periodic 
reports, including Forms 10-K and 10-Q, with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a) of the  
Exchange Act and related rules thereunder.  Since May 10, 2007, the Company has not filed any 
required periodic reports.  On August 6, 2007, AHM and its direct and indirect subsidiaries filed 
for bankruptcy protection.  On February 23, 2009, the Bankruptcy Court confirmed AHM’s plan of 
liquidation.    
        
              3.      On April 28, 2009 the Commission filed a complaint against Bernstein and 
others in SEC v. Strauss, et al. (09 Civ. 4150) (S.D.N.Y.).  On November 17, 2009, the court 
entered an order permanently enjoining Bernstein, by consent, from future violations of Section 
13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder, and aiding and abetting 
violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 
and 13a-13 thereunder.  Bernstein was also ordered to pay a $125,000 civil money penalty. 
 
              4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Bernstein, 
with others, analyzed the Company’s reserves for expected loan losses, which showed that a 
substantial increase was required to account for AHM’s increased loss rates on its portfolios.  
Bernstein did not provide this information to AHM’s auditor.  Instead, based on an instruction 
from AHM’s chief financial officer, Bernstein provided to the auditor a misleading document that 
made the Company’s understated loan loss reserves appear adequate.  Bernstein also took 
affirmative steps to conceal a significant aged receivable balance on AHM’s books for the periods 
ending December 31, 2006 and March 31, 2007 by directing a subordinate to make a series of 

                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

accounting entries designed to bury the balance in a liability account in order to mislead the 
Company’s auditor with respect to the existence of these aged receivables.  Bernstein 
circumvented AHM’s internal controls and falsified the Company’s books and records by, among 
other things, creating false accounting entries in connection with the aged receivables and entries 
which reflected the understated loan loss reserves.    
        
                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Bernstein’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
       A.      Bernstein is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
       B.      After three years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the  
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                                1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
      
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                            (a) Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight     Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                       (b)    Respondent, or the registered   public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms  
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                (c)           Respondent has resolved all di  sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                       (d)    Respondent acknowledges      his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
                                                 3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 
      
         C.       The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume  
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                                     M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                               

                                                            4
  
