---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                        Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934                                                  
Release No. 67884 / September 18, 2012 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  3408 / September 18, 2012 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15033 
                                          
                                         :       
                                         :       
                                         :      CORRECTED 
      In the Matter of                   :      ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                         :      PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
             Michael K. Krohn, CPA    :         102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                         :      PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND  
             Respondent.                 :      IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                         :       
                                         :       
____________________________________ :            
                                          
                                            I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Michael 
K. Krohn (“Krohn” or “Respondent”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1
           
                                           II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the 
violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings and the findings contained in Section III.2 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
                                              III. 
        
              1.      Krohn, age 36, resides in Round Rock, Texas.  He is and has been a certified 
public accountant licensed to practice by the State of Arizona.  Krohn provided accounting advice to 
entities regarding the offering of securities in violation of the federal securities laws.    
 
              2.      On August 6, 2012 the Commission filed a complaint against Krohn in SEC 
v. The Companies (TC), LLC, et al., (Civil Action No. 2:12-cv-00765-DN).  On August 9, 2012, 
the court entered an order permanently enjoining Krohn, by consent, from future violations of 
Sections 5(a), 5(c), 17(a)(2), and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933.   
 
              3.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Krohn, in 
violation of federal securities laws and in connection with the sale of approximately $11.9 million 
of securities to approximately 169 investors, made material misrepresentations and omissions 
regarding, among other things, the value of company assets.  The alleged misrepresentations and 
omissions were contained in private placement memoranda (“PPMs”) used in unregistered 
offerings.  The complaint alleged that Krohn participated in drafting and providing content for the 
PPMs and solicited investors.  The complaint further alleged that the securities were not registered, 
in violation of the federal securities laws, because the PPMs wrongfully relied on the exemption to 
registration pursuant to Regulation D, Rule 506.  The com plaint alleged that the offerings did not 
meet the Regulation D, Rule 506 requirements because the securities were offered through general 
solicitation. 
 
                                              IV. 
 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Krohn’s  Offer. 
 

                                               2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Krohn is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
       B.      After two years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief 
Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
 
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                      (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
      
       The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his stat e CPA license is current and he 
has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  
However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the 
Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review  
may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters 
relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or 
practice before the Commission.       
                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                       Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                       Secretary 

                                                  4  
