---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                          Before the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 64588 / June 2, 2011 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3286 / June 2, 2011 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14177 
 
                                                 
In the Matter of                                ORDER  MAKING FINDINGS AND 
                                                IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS               
        CARL W. JASPER , CPA                    PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e)(3) OF THE 
                                                COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE
             Respondent.                                     
 

                                                    
                                               I.  
 
       On January 7, 2011, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) instituted 
                                                           1
public administrative proceedings pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice against Carl W. Jasper (“Respondent” or “Jasper”). 
 
                                               II. 
        
       In connection with these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer of Settlement 
(the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of these 
proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the 
Commission is a party, and prior to a hearing pursuant to the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 
C.F.R. §201.100, et seq., and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the 
Commission’s  jurisdiction  over  him  and  the  subject  matter  of  these  proceedings,  which  are 

                                                 
1
       Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by order, . . . 
suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has been by name . . . permanently 
enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the 
Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of 
the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Making Findings and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, as set forth below. 
        
                                              III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
        
       1.     Jasper, age 54, is and has been a certified public accountant (“CPA”) licensed to 
practice in the State of California.  From April 1999 through January 2007, Respondent served as 
Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Principal Accounting Officer of Maxim Integrated 
Products, Inc. (“Maxim”), a San Jose semiconductor company.   From 1983 to 1995, Respondent 
worked as an auditor for Ernst & Young, LLP.  Respondent’s CPA license was inactive during his 
tenure at Maxim. 
        
       2.     On November 5, 2010, the United States District Court for the Northern District of 
California entered an amended final judgment against Respondent.  SEC v. Jasper, C-07-6122 JW 
(N.D. Cal. Dec. 4, 2007).  The Amended Final Judgment followed a jury trial in which the jury 
found that Respondent violated Section 17(a)(1) of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) 
and Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and Rules 10b-5, 
13a-14, 13b2-1, and 13b2-2 thereunder, and aided and abetted Maxim’s violations of Sections 
13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 
13a-13 thereunder. 
        
       3.        The  Amended  Final   Judgment   against  Respondent,  among   other   things, 
permanently  enjoins  him  from  future  violations,  direct  or  indirect,  of  Section  17(a)(1)  of  the 
Securities Act and Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 13a-14, 13b2-1, and 13b2-
2  thereunder, and from aiding and abetting any  violations of Sections  13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder.  It also 
bars Respondent, for a period of two years, from acting as an officer or director for any issuer that 
has a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. § 781, or 
that is required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. § 78o(d), 
and requires Respondent to reimburse Maxim $1,869,639 and pay a civil penalty of $360,000. 
        
       4.       The Commission’s first amended complaint alleged that Respondent, from at least 
2000 through 2005, engaged in a scheme to illegally backdate stock options granted to Maxim’s 
employees   and   directors,   concealing   millions   of   dollars   in   expenses   from  investors   and 
significantly  overstating  Maxim’s  income.   It  further  alleged  that  Respondent  was  aware  that 
Maxim granted options on purported dates that had been selected with hindsight and that he knew, 
or was reckless in not knowing, that Maxim was failing to report expenses for those in-the-money 
options and was falsely reporting that it only granted options at fair market value.  It further alleged 
that Respondent signed several of Maxim’s public filings, including annual, quarterly, and current 
reports and registration statements that were materially false and misleading. 
        
          

                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
                
                                               IV. 
        
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Jasper’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Jasper is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
       B.      After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief 
Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
 
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
 
                      (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
 
                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 
 

                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his license is current and he 
has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable boards of accountancy.  
However, if licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission 
will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include 
consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to 
Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or 
practice before the Commission. 
        
        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                    Secretary 
                               

                                                4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 
                                          Service List 
 
       Rule 141 of the Commission's Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or another duly 
authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order Making Findings and 
Imposing Remedial Sanctions Pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice 
(“Order”) on the Respondent and his legal agent. 
 
       The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to 
notice: 
 
Honorable Brenda P. Murray                    
Chief Administrative Law Judge                
Securities and Exchange Commission  
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-2557                     
                                                     
Mark P. Fickes, Esq.                  
San Francisco Regional Office                        
Securities and Exchange Commission            
                         th
44 Montgomery Street, 26  Floor 
San Francisco, CA 94104                                                     
                                      
Mr. Carl W. Jasper                    
6922 Serenity Way 
San Jose, CA 95120   
                                         
Steven M. Bauer, Esq.  
Robert E. Sims, Esq. 
Margaret A. Tough, Esq.               
Latham & Watkins LLP           
505 Montgomery Street, Suite 2000 
San Francisco, CA 94111                       
(Counsel for Carl W. Jasper) 
 

                                                5  
