---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                   STATES OF AMERICA 
 before                                             the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 63263 / November 5, 2010 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3209 / November 5, 2010 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14112  
                                               
      :  
 :                                                     
 :                                                      
   In the Matter of                           :             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                 :             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
             RANDALL D. IMHOFF  (CPA),     :             102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                   :             PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
        Respondent.                     :     IMPO           SING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                           :      
                                           :      
____________________________________ :        
                                                       
 
                                                 I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Randall 
D. Imhoff (“Respondent” or “Imhoff”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1
            
 
                                                 II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
                 The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by order, . . . 
suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has been by name . . . permanently 
enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the 
Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of 
the rules and regulations thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
                     1.           Imhoff, age 48, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to 
practice in the State of Texas.  Imhoff joined Dell Inc. (“Dell”) in February 2000 as Corporate 
Assistant Controller and was named Finance Director for U.S. Small and Medium Businesses in 
September 2003.  He was named Finance Director for Global I/T in November 2005, a position he 
retained until he left Dell in April 2007. 
        
                     2.           Dell is a Fortune 50 company in the business of providing electronic 
products, including mobility products, desktop PCs, peripherals, servers, networking equipment, 
and storage.  Dell also offers services, including software, infrastructure technology, consulting 
and applications, and business process services.  Dell was incorporated in Delaware in 1984 and is 
based in Round Rock, Texas.  Since July 2006, Dell’s common stock has been registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) 
and is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market.  During the prior relevant period, Dell’s 
common stock was registered with the Commission under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and 
quoted on the Nasdaq National Market System. 
 
                     3.           On August 27, 2010, the Commission filed a complaint against Imhoff in 
the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in SEC v. Imhoff (Civil Action No. 
1:10-cv-01465).  On October 13, 2010, the court entered an order permanently enjoining Imhoff, 
by consent, from future violations of Exchange Act Section 13(b)(5) and Rules 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 
thereunder, and from aiding and abetting violations of Exchange Act Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 
and 13(b)(2)(B) and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder.  Imhoff was also ordered to pay 
$12,852 in disgorgement of ill-gotten gains, $6,197 in prejudgment interest, and a $25,000 civil 
money penalty. 
 
  4. The Commission’s complaint alle                    ged, among other things, that Imhoff 
engaged in improper accounting which resulted in Dell filing materially false and misleading 
financial statements in the company’s annual reports on Forms 10-K and quarterly reports on 
Forms 10-Q from fiscal year 2002 to fiscal year 2004.  The Complaint alleged that Imhoff 
rendered substantial assistance to Dell’s improper use of general reserves, including the 
“Corporate Contingencies,” a Corporate restructuring reserve, bonus and profit sharing accruals, 
certain reserves in Dell’s Europe, Middle East and Africa segment, and relocation accruals.   It 
further alleged that, with regard to the Corporate restructuring reserve established in fiscal year 
2002, Imhoff tracked excess accruals, directed the re-designation of excess accruals to other 
liability accounts, and worked with others to utilize excess for unrelated operating expenses.  With 
regard to the “Corporate Contingencies,” the Complaint alleged that Imhoff instructed others at 

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

Dell to maintain general reserves in “Corporate Contingencies” so they could be used for 
unrelated operating expenses in later periods.  The complaint also alleged that Imhoff provided 
substantial assistance with respect to Dell’s maintenance of bonus and profit sharing over-accruals 
from quarter to quarter and its periodic release of over-accruals from prior periods to offset 
current operating expenses.  It also alleged that Imhoff provided substantial assistance with 
respect to Dell’s failure to record a required reserve for the Las Cimas liability. 
 
                                                 IV. 
                                                    
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Imhoff’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
              A.          Imhoff is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
              B.          After three years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
 
                            1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
  2. an independent accountant.  Su                    ch an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                                         (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight       Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Respondent, or the registered                           public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

   (c) Respondent has resolved all di                           sciplinary issues with the Board and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
   (d) Respondent acknowledges                              his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
                                                  3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
 
         C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth M. Murphy 
       Secretary 

                                                              4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                         Service List 
 
              Rule 141 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or another 
duly authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order Instituting 
Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), on the Respondent and his legal 
agent. 
 
              The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to 
notice: 
 
Honorable Brenda P. Murray 
Chief Administrative Law Judge 
Securities and Exchange Commission 
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-2557 
 
James Blenko, Esq. 
Division of Enforcement 
Securities and Exchange Commission 
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-5561 
 
Mr. Randall D. Imhoff 
c/o Michael Missal, Esq. 
K&L Gates LLP 
1601 K Street, N.W. 
Washington, DC 20006 
 
Michael Missal, Esq. 
K&L Gates LLP 
1601 K Street, N.W. 
Washington, DC 20006  
(Counsel for Randall D. Imhoff) 
 

                                              5 
