---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                    UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                                    Before the 

                          SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

                                                                                          
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT                        OF 1934 
Release No. 60345 / July 20, 2009                 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3016 / July 20, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13560 
                                                       
                                                       : 
                                                      : 
                                                      :  
         In the Matter of                             :        ORDER INSTITUTING 
                                                      :        ADMINISTRATIVE                                     PROCEEDINGS 
         LISA M. ROBERTS, CPA,                        :        PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                      :        COMMISSION’S                 RULES OF
 Respondent.                                          :        PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                                      :        IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                      :  
____________________________________ :                           
 
 
                                                          I.  
 
         The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Lisa M.  
Roberts, CPA (“Respondent” or  “Roberts”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.  1 
                        
                                                           
                                                         II.  
 
         In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
         The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.4 below, which are admitted, Respondent  
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
       1.     Roberts, age 43, a resident of Cape May, New Jersey, is a certified public 
accountant (“CPA”) in New Jersey.  Roberts joined Ulticom, Inc. (“Ulticom”) in December 1994 
and served in various accounting positions until becoming Vice President and Chief Financial 
Officer (“CFO”) on July 2, 1998.  Once she was replaced by a  new CFO in December 1999, 
Roberts served as the Company’s Vice President of Finance until September 2001, when she 
became Vice President of Corporate Administration.  Her title changed to Vice President of 
Operations in November 2002.  She became Ulticom’s Senior Vice President of Operations in 
March 2006, a position she held until her termination on October 31, 2007.  From March 13, 2000 
to April 27, 2001, Roberts signed management representation letters to the Company’s outside 
auditors.  From at least January 2000 to May 2002, Roberts prepared and/or reviewed Ulticom’s 
periodic reports on Forms 10-Q and 10-K, proxies, and registration statements. 
  
       2.     On June 18, 2009, the Commission filed a complaint against Roberts in the civil 
action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Lisa M. Roberts, (Civil Action No. 1:09-
CV-2590), in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York. On July 13, 
2009, the Court entered a final judgment against Roberts, permanently enjoining her from violating 
Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the  
Exchange Act, and Exchange Act Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1, and 13b2-2, and from aiding and abetting 
violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B), and 14(a) of the Exchange Act, and 
Exchange Act Rules 13a-1, 13a-11, 13a-13, and 14a-9.  Roberts was also prohibited from acting as  
an officer or director of any issuer that has a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of  
the Exchange Act or that is required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, 
and was ordered to pay a $25,000 civil money penalty.  
 
       3.     The Commission’s Complaint alleged, among other things, that Roberts, at the 
direction of former Ulticom senior executives, participated in two separate fraudulent schemes to 
materially misstate the financial results of Ulticom in a departure from generally accepted 
accounting principles (“GAAP”).  The first scheme involved improper backdating of Ulticom 
stock options.  The second scheme involved improper accounting practices, including (i) the 
improper establishment, maintenance, and release of excess reserves, and (ii) the improper 
recognition of revenue on certain inter-company shipments and service contracts.  As a result of 
these schemes, Ulticom has announced that its historical financial statements and any related 
reports of its independent registered public accounting firm should no longer be relied upon, and 
that it will correct its historical financial statements in order to record additional material non-cash 

                                                2
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

charges for option-related compensation expenses and to address the material misstatement of its 
revenues and earnings.  In addition, the Complaint alleged that Roberts made material 
misrepresentations to Ulticom’s outside auditors in furtherance of these schemes. 
        
                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Roberts’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Roberts is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
       B.      After 5 years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the  
Commission consider her reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief 
Accountant) to resume appearing or  practicing before the Commission as: 
 
                                1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in her practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which she works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as she practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
      
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                            (a) Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which she is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight     Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                       (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which  
she is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any 
criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that 
would indicate that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                (c)           Respondent has resolved all di  sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                       (d)    Respondent acknowledges      her responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited 
to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and 
quality control standards. 
 

                                                  3
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                    C. The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume  
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that her state CPA license is 
current and she has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                                        M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                                  

                                                               4
 
