---------------------Page 1---------------------

                          UNITED STATES OF AMERICA          
                                      Before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
                                            
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 68605 / January 9, 2013 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  3436 / January 9, 2013 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15168 
 
_____________________________________ 
                                           :       
In the Matter of                          :      ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                          :      ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
       JOHN J. AESOPH, CPA, and           :      PURSUANT TO SECTION 4C OF 
       DARREN M. BENNETT, CPA             :      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE 
                                          :      ACT OF 1934 AND RULE 102(e) OF 
Respondents.                              :      THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
____________________________________   :      PRACTICE 
                                                  
                                                  
                                          I. 
                                            
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in 
the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
John J. Aesoph, CPA (“Aesoph”) and Darren M. Bennett, CPA (“Bennett”) pursuant to Section 
4C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice to determine whether Aesoph and Bennett engaged in improper 
professional conduct.  

                                          II. 

       After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement and the Office of the Chief 
Accountant allege that: 

A.    Summary 

      1.     Aesoph and Bennett (collectively, “the auditors”) repeatedly engaged in   improper 
professional conduct during their year -end 2008 audit of TierOne Corporation, a holding 
company for TierOne Bank (collectively “TierOne”). They did so by failing to subject TierOne’s 
loan loss estimates – one of the highest risk areas of the audit – to appropriate scrutiny.  Aesoph 
served as the audit partner and Bennett served as the senior manager on the engagement; they 
each had significant responsibility for the  audit decisions, the inadequately designed and 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                  

implemented audit programs, the review of audit work papers, a  nd the failures to follow audit 
standards that are the subject of this proceeding.  

       2.      TierOne’s loan losses were  a critical audit area that warranted heightened 
scrutiny.   Up to and during 2008, as a result of the financial crisis and related real estate market 
crash, TierOne had been experiencing a dramatic increase in the number of   its troubled real 
estate loans. TierOne estimated its loan losses for a key component of its troubled loan portfoli o 
– large, unique loans  accounted for under Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Statement of 
Financial Accounting Standards No. 114 (“FAS 114”) – by using     the value of the collateral 
underlying these loans .  
                        Rather than get updated appraisals to value the collateral of the loans that 
TierOne evaluated for impairment under FAS 114 (called here “the bank’s FAS 114 loans”      1
                                                                                             ),  
TierOne frequently relied on stale, dated appraisals to which the bank’s management sometimes     
applied a discount.  TierOne’s determ ination of the discount amounts, and its decisions not to 
apply a discount, were not documented, nor were they  supported by reliable facts or evidence.     

       3.      Aesoph and Bennett violated numerous    Public Company Accounting Oversight 
Board (“PCAOB”) audit standards in both their audit of internal control over financial reporting 
and their audit of the financial statements. The auditors correctly identified TierOne’s loan losses 
as presenting a  fraud risk and a significant risk of material misstatement. The actual audit test 
work in this area , however, was inadequate considering the associated audit risk and materiality. 
For example, the internal controls identified and test ed by the audit engagement team  relating  to 
the allowance for loan and lease losses (“ALLL  ”) did not effectively address one of the most 
important and riskiest  component s of the bank’s loan loss calculations: management’s use of 
stale and inadequate appraisals to value the collateral underlying the bank’s FAS 114 loans .  
Based on this test work, Aesoph and Bennett had no reasonable basis to conclude that TierOne 
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting.  Moreover, 
the auditors failed to adequately identify and evaluate defects in the design and operating 
effectiveness of controls over collateral valuation that would have been important to the auditors’ 
conclusion about whether TierOne’s controls sufficiently addressed the assessed risk of 
misstatement.  The auditors violated PCAOB standar   ds, including specifically Auditing Standard 
No. 5 (“AS No. 5”) , in their audit of internal control over financial reporting . 

       4.      Compounding these flaws in the audit of   internal control over financial reporting 
were Aesoph and Bennett’s failures to comply with PCAOB standards in their  substantive audit 
procedures over  the bank’s  FAS 114 loans. T he relevant audit work on these loans consisted of 
checking management’s basic math, confirming that appraisals (no matter how stale) existed, 
reviewing a sample of appraisals, and relying on management’s uncorroborated representations 
concerning property -specific issues, including whether stale appraisals required adjustment. 
These procedures fell short of the requirements of a number of PCAOB standards, including 
specifically AU Sections 328 and 342, which address auditing fair value and accounting 
estimates, respectively.  In short, the auditors failed to subject management’s estimates to 
appropriate scrutiny .  

                                                           
1
 The specific loans at issue in this proceeding are listed on 2008 audit work papers  L-22.2F, L-
22.2H, L-32.1, L-32.2, and L-32.3.    

                                                2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                

       5.     Aesoph and Bennett failed to obtain sufficient, competent evidential matter to 
provide assurances that management’s estimates were reasonable. They further failed to act with 
due professional care or appropriate professional skepticism. 

       6.     These failures, along with others detailed below, demonstrate a single instance of 
highly unreasonable conduct that resulted in a violation of applicable professional standards in 
which Aesoph and Bennett   knew, or should have known, heightened scrutiny was warranted; and 
repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable 
professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice before the Commission.  

B.     Respondents 

       7.     John J. Aesoph        , CPA, age 40, is a resident of Omaha, Nebraska. Aesoph has 
been an auditor at KPMG, LLP (“KPMG”) since 2001 and a partner at the firm since 2005. He 
was on the TierOne audit engagement from 2002 through KPMG’s resignation in 2010, and was 
the engagement partner for the 2008 audit.   Aesoph is currently licensed as a CPA in Nebraska 
and North Dakota. He has previously been licensed as a CPA in Idaho, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, 
and South Dakota.  

       8.     Darren M. Bennett, CPA, age 35   , is a resident of Elkhorn, Nebraska. Bennett 
has been an auditor at KPMG since 2001.  He worked on the TierOne audit each year from 2003 
through KPMG’s resignation in 2010, with the exception of one year.  Bennett was the senior 
manager for the 2008 TierOne audit. Bennett was also a member of KPMG’s financial services 
practice and served as manager or senior manager on at least four financial services audits in 
addition to TierOne. Bennett is licensed as a CPA in Nebraska, North Dakota, and South Dakota. 

C.     Other Relevant Parties 

       9.     TierOne Corporation, a Wisconsin corporation, was, during the relevant time 
period, a holding company for TierOne Bank, a federally -chartered savings bank headquartered 
in Lincoln, Nebraska. TierOne’s common stock was registered with the Commission pur suant to 
Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act; that registration was revoked by consent on June 4, 2012. 
Prior to May 7, 2010, TierOne’s shares were listed on the NasdaqGS exchange under the stock 
symbol “TONE.” TierOne’s common stock was thereafter quoted on OTC Pink, which is 
operated by OTC Markets Group Inc. On June 4, 2010, TierOne Bank was closed by its primary 
regulator, the United States Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”). The Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation (“FDIC”) was named receiver and  another bank took over TierOne’s assets and 
deposit accounts. TierOne subsequently filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy protection on June 24, 
2010. 

       10.    KPMG LLP is a limited liability partnership headquartered in New York, New 
York, engaged in the business of providing accounting and auditing services.  KPMG audited 
TierOne’s 2008 financial statements and internal control over financi al reporting as of December 
31, 2008 and issued unqualified opinions. KPMG also performed quarterly  reviews for TierOne 
during the relevant time period.  

                                              3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                                 

D.     TierOne’s Risky Problem Loan Portfolio 
 
       11.    TierOne was a century-old thrift bank that had historically focused on residential 
and agricultural loans in the Nebraska/Iowa/Kansas region. Beginning in about 2004, however, 
TierOne expanded into high -risk types of lending in regions such as Las Vegas, Florida, and 
Arizona, which were experiencing unusual, rapid escalation in market values.  This strategy 
made the bank particularly vulnerable to the fallout from the financial crisis, as these areas were 
hardest hit by the precipitous fall in real estate prices, which began in late 2006 and early 2007.   
 
       12.    Throughout 2008, TierOne was experiencing a dramatic rise in high-risk problem 
loans including land and land development and residential construction. Certain of these problem 
loans – typically larger and non-homogenous (i.e., not car or residential mortgage loans) – were 
deemed “impaired” pursuant to FAS 114, meaning it was probable the bank would not recover 
all amounts as contractually due. TierOne’s  reported FAS 114 impaired loan balance had 
increased from less than $4 million as of December 31, 2006 to nearly $186 million as of 
December 31, 2008.  

       13.    In June 2008, the OTS   conducted a “ risk-focused examination” of the bank that 
focused on asset quality, credit administration, management, earnings, and the adequacy of 
ALLL. As a result of that examination, the OTS downgraded the bank’s composite CAMELS 
rating from a one (indicating a financial institution that was “sound in every respect”) to a four 
(indicating a financial institution with “serious financial or managerial deficiencies” that require 
close supervisory attention). The OTS provided the bank with a report that deemed the institution 
to be in troubled condition and board and management performance to be exceptionally poor. 
OTS concluded that TierOne had experienced    a significant deterioration in asset quality due to 
eroding real estate values in Nevada and Florida, and that poor board and management oversight 
had exacerbated the problem. The OTS cited   data demonstrating that real estate values were 
declining at unprecedented rates in states  and markets where the bank had a concentration of 
loans. The  OTS also directed TierOne to maintain higher minimum capital  ratios. Failure to 
correct the problems identified by the OTS or to meet the heightened capital requirements would 
result in additional OTS  enforcement action . 

       14.    The bank’s FAS 114 loans had a negative    effect on TierOne’s ability to meet the 
heightened capital requirements mandated by the OTS. Under  Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles (“GAAP”), TierOne was required to assess probable losses associated with its 
impaired loans and record those losses in its ALLL. GAAP permits the impairment to be 
measured using the fair value of the underlying collateral if the loan is collateral dependent, 
which is the method that was typically utilized by TierOne on its FAS 114 loans . As loan losses 
increased, the bank’s capital was further eroded, directly impacting the OTS capital 
requirements.  

       15.    In order to assess loan losses for the bank’s FAS 114 loans, TierOne prepared 
loan-by-loan spreadsheets that contained estimates of collateral values and loan impairment 
determinations. TierOne generally based the valuation on the most recent appraisal in its loan 
files. If the appraisal was aged, as it typically was, TierOne would sometimes apply a discount to 
the appraised value. These discounts were determined by an informal committee at the bank. The 

                                               4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                                 

rationale for applying any particular discount – or for not discounting an appraisal at all – was 
not documented. 

       16.    In the summer of 2009,  when the OTS began its annual   exam,  the bank was 
forced to get a significant number of updated appraisals and to use those appraisals in its loan 
loss calculations. In the fall of 2009, TierOne disclosed over $130 million in additional loan loss 
provisions. TierOne was shut down by bank reg  ulators on June 4, 2010 and filed for bankruptcy 
later that month.  

       17.    In April 2010, KPMG resigned as TierOne’s auditor. KPMG withdrew its audit 
opinion relating to TierOne’s 2008 financial statements on the basis that they were materially 
misstated with respect to certain out-of-period adjustments for loan loss reserves. KPMG also 
withdrew its opinion relating to TierOne’s internal control over financial reporting as of the year-
end 2008 due to a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting related to the 
material misstatements. 

E.     The Auditors Recognized t he Risk s in TierOne’s Problem      Loan Portfolio 

       18.    Prior to and during their  2008 audit of TierOne, Aesoph and Bennett were aware 
of the risk and significance of the bank’s loan loss provisions, and of the loan loss component 
related to the bank’s FAS 114 loans specifically.  

       1.     The Auditors Identified ALLL Risks  

       19.    The bank’s ALLL had two primary components: an allowance for loans impair     ed 
under FAS 114 and an allowance for loans impaired   under Statement of Financial Accounting 
Standards No. 5 (“FAS 5”) .   The portion of the ALLL   allocable to loans that TierOne evaluated 
for impairment under FAS 114 was individually material to the financial statements and 
presented a significant risk of material misstatement.  

       20.    The audit planning document – reviewed and approved by both Aesoph and 
Bennett – identified the ALLL as a risk that could result in a material misstatement of TierOne’s 
financial statements. Specifically, the audit plan noted that the ALLL presented a significant risk 
of material misstatement, both with respect to inherent risk and control risk, including the risk of 
fraud.   

        2.     Numerous Red Flags Further Underscored the Risks        

       21.    Compounding the identified risks were numerous red flags  and other irregularities 
that should have triggered Aesoph and Bennett’s professional skepticism and led them to 
investigate further.   

              a.      OTS Identified a Significant Understatement of the ALLL 

       22.    In connection with its June 2008 examination, the OTS identified a deficiency in 
TierOne’s ALLL as of March 31, 2008 of between $17 million and $22 million, representing an 
approximate 25% increas  e over the previously reported ALLL. Aesoph and Bennett were aware 
of this deficiency: Bennett directly identified it in a memo he authored – and Aesoph reviewed – 

                                               5 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                                                 

that discussed the OTS report. Further, the June 2008 OTS report, discussed above in paragra ph 
13, was provided to KP  MG and included in the auditors’ work papers.  

              b.      Third-Party Market Data Showed Significant Declines in Real Estate 
                      Values That Were Not Reflected in TierOne’s Valuations of its FAS 
                      114 Loans 

       23.    As another red flag, TierOne’s valuation adjustments on the collateral underlying 
the bank’s FAS 114 loans were inconsistent with independent market data.  Third-party market 
data indicated that real estate values were declining precipitously in many of the markets where 
the bank’s FAS 114 collateral was located, including Las Vegas, Nevada and Phoenix, Arizona. 
At year-end 2008, TierOne had prepared spreadsheets analyzing more than fifty borrower 
relationships, totaling approximately $255 million in loans , for evaluation for impairment under 
FAS 114. Approximately $186 million of these loans were actually deemed impaired by the 
bank. The majority of the loans that the bank evaluated for impairment under FAS 114 were 
collateralized by property with appraisals more than a year old; over half of those stale appraisals 
were not discounted. Critically, when management did discount appraisals, those discounts were 
typically inconsistent with – and more favorable to the bank than – the declines indicated by the 
independent market data. 

              c.      Management Typically Did Not     Get Updated Appraisals  

       24.    Further, despite the market declines, TierOne management often did not  get 
updated appraisals on the collateral underlying the bank’s FAS 114 loans. This failure came 
despite the fact that the OTS and members of the audit engagement team noted stale appraisals 
and recommended that appraisals be updated.   

              d.      New Appraisals Obtained Throughout       2008 Indicated Management 
                      Overestimated Collateral Values and Understated Loss Provisions  

       25.    In the limited instances where   TierOne did get updated appraisals or valuations on 
the bank’s FAS 114 loan s during 2008, the collateral value typically showed a significant decline 
from the amount used by management in the immediately preceding quarter. Appraisals received 
throughout 2008 showed that management’s estimates were inflated by twenty to almost fifty 
percent in the prior quarter . The magnitude of the quarter -to-quarter declines could not be 
explained by market conditions alone.2
                                       In addition to the updated appraisals showing differences 
in value from the immediately-preceding quarter, some of those appraisals revealed tremendous 
drops in the value TierOne had used at year end 2007.3
                                                       

                                                           
2
 New appraisals or valuations were received on several of the bank’s  FAS 114 loans, including: 
Storybook Homes; Rising Sun; Grand Teton; Quarter 10; Stetson Ridge; La Madre 48; Rome 24; 
Clearwater Estates; Equestrian Meadow; HD Tbella; and HDB, LLC     .   
 
3
 TierOne received new appraisals on several  loans that had been booked as FAS 114 loans at 
year-end 2007, including: Storybook Homes  , Clearwater Estates, Grand Teton, and Rising Sun. 

                                               6 
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                                                 

       26.    When considered in conjunction with management’s reluctance to obtain new 
appraisals, these sharp declines  in collateral values  should have raised significant questions about 
management’s motivations. 

              e.      Stale Appraisals Were Not Discounted Despite TierOne’s Internal 
                      Policy 

       27.    During the 2008 audit, the auditors reviewed a memorandum    that was prepared by 
TierOne and annotated by the audit engagement team that assessed the adequacy of the fourth 
quarter 2008 ALLL   balance.  That memorandum   stated that, for Nevada land and residential 
construction loans, TierOne “tries to estimate collateral value declines in real estate by 
discounting appraised values, which are older than six months.”  Despite this stated policy, 
TierOne often failed to discount Nevada appraisals that were more than six months old.  

              f.      TierOne’s Unallocated Loan Loss Reserve Decreased at Year End 

       28.    TierOne designated a portion of its ALLL as an “unallocated”   reserve which was 
intended to cover loan losses inherent in TierOne’s loan portfolio, including particularly loans in 
Nevada. However, despite the fact that market conditions continued to deteriorate throughout 
2008, TierOne’s unallocated reserve decreased significantly at year end. The unallocated reserve 
dropped from approximately $7 million in the second and third quarters to approximately $4 
million at year end. This decrease was particularly troubling given that during its year end audit, 
the audit engagement team relied on the unallocated reserve to absorb potential errors in 
TierOne’s calculation of its ALLL or to justify not performing additional audit work. These 
conclusions by the audit engagement team were reviewed by Aesoph and Bennett. 

              g.      Management Failed to Document Their Discounting Decisions 

       29.    As a final red flag to the auditors, TierOne did not document the rationale and 
basis for management’s assumptions regarding valuation of the collateral underlying  the bank’s 
FAS 114 loans, despite the guidance in Financial Reporting Release (“FRR”) No. 28. See also                                              
Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 102 (“SAB 102”). 

       3.     TierOne’s FAS 114 Loans Were Material 

       30.    In addition to these red flags, the portion of the ALLL related to the bank’s FAS 
114 loans was material. PCAOB auditing standards recognize that financial statements are 
materially misstated when they contain misstatements whose effect, individually or in the 
aggregate, is important enough to cause the financial statements not to be presented fairly, in all 
material respects, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. AU § 312, ¶ 4.    

       31.    The portion of the ALLL related to the bank’s FAS 114 loans was material to the 
financial statements taken as a whole. It far exceeded the $1.9 million materiality threshold 
established for the 2008 audit. It was reasonably possible that even a relatively small change in 
the value of the bank’s FAS 114 loans would cause a material error in the financial statements.  

       32.    The portion of the ALLL related to the bank’s FAS 114 loans  was material for 
additional reasons.  For example:  

                                               7 
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

                                                  

              a.      Any additional loan losses discovered by the audit engagement team 
would have pushed the bank closer to falling below the OTS-mandated 8.5% core capital ratio 
and 11% risk -based capital ratio. TierOne’s core and risk -based capital ratios at December 31, 
2008 were 8.9% and 11.6%, respectively.    

              b.      The bank’s loan losses factored significantly into TierOne’s overall 
operating results and profitability. The bank’s net interest income after provision for loan losses 
was only $2.9 million at year end 2008, meaning a small increase in loan losses would change  a 
reported net income to a reported net loss. Further, the trend in this net interest income figure 
was in precipitous decline, decreasing from $119.8 million at year end 2006 to $48 million at 
year end 2007 to $2.9 million at year end 2008.  

              c.      TierOne itself acknowledged the importance of its ALLL, including    its 
FAS 114 loans, devoting several pages in its 2008 Form 10-K to a discussion of problem loans 
and the ALLL. Indeed, the 10- K expressly stated that “[a]n inadequate allowance for loan losses 
could adversely affect our results of operations.” 

       33.    Given the risk and materiality of the ALLL related to the bank’s FAS 114 loans , 
and the many red flags, Aesoph and Bennett had heightened responsibilities in auditing this area, 
and were required to apply professional skepticism in obtaining sufficient competent evidential 
matter to support their opinions. They failed in these responsibilities.  

F.     Aesoph and Bennett’s Improper Professional Conduct 

       34.    The Commission’s Rules allow the Commission to censure or deny, t     emporarily 
or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before it in any way certain professionals 
who violate “applicable professional standards.” 17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e). For auditors of issuers 
such as TierOne, the applicable professional standards include standards issued by the PCAOB  .  
 
       1.     General Standards 

       35.    The PCAOB’s three    general standards of auditing require that an auditor (1) have 
adequate technical training and proficiency, (2) maintain an independent mental attitude, and (3) 
act with due professional care in the performance of the audit. AU § 150, ¶ 2. The three basic 
standards of field work require the auditor to (1) adequately plan and properly supervise the 
audit, (2) obtain a sufficient understanding of internal control to plan the audit, and (3) obtain 
sufficient competent evidential matter to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion. AU § 150, ¶ 2. 

       36.    “Due professional care imposes a responsibility upon each professional within an 
independent auditor’s organization to observe the standards of field work and reporting.” AU § 
230, ¶ 2. The concept of due professional care includes acting with reasonable diligence.  AU § 
230, ¶ 3. It also includes exercising professional skepticism.  AU § 230, ¶ 7. “Professional 
skepticism is an attitude that includes a questioning mind and a critical assessment of audit 
evidence.” AU § 230, ¶  7. “The auditor neither assumes that management is dishonest nor 
assumes unquestioned honesty. In exercising professional skepticism, the auditor should not be 
satisfied with less than persuasive evidence because of a belief that management is honest.” AU 
§ 230, ¶ 9. 

                                                8 
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

                                                  

       37.     Auditors are required to obtain “sufficient competent evidential matter” to afford 
a reasonable basis for the auditor’s opinions. AU § 326, ¶ 1; see also AU § 230, ¶ 11 (“The 
independent auditor’s objective is to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to provide him 
or her with a reasonable basis for forming an opinion.”). “Gathering and objectively evaluating 
audit evidence requires the auditor to consider the competency and sufficiency of the evidence.” 
AU § 230, ¶ 8. PCAOB standards attach greater validity to evidential matter obtained directly by 
the auditors, and to evidential matter obtained from independent sources outside an entity. AU § 
326, ¶ 21. Representations from management, while part of the evidential matter the auditor 
obtains, “are not a substitute for the application of those auditing procedures necessary to afford 
a reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the financial statements under audit.” AU § 333, ¶ 2. 

       38.     Further, audit procedures, and the amount and persuasiveness of evidence auditors 
are required to obtain, are driven by risk. “Audit risk and materiality, among other matters, need 
to be considered together in determining the nature, timing, and extent of auditing procedures 
and in evaluating the results of those procedures.” AU § 312, ¶ 1; see also                                                                   AU § 312, ¶ 12 (“The 
auditor should consider audit risk and materiality both in (a) planning the audit and designing 
auditing procedures and (b) evaluating whether the financial statements taken as a whole are 
presented fairly, in all material respects, in conformity with generally accepted accounting 
principles. The auditor should consider audit risk and materiality in the first circumstance to 
obtain sufficient competent evidential matter on which to properly evaluate the financial 
statements in the second circumstance.”). When auditors identify a significant risk of material 
misstatement, as they did here, that fact is relevant to the nature and extent of the audit 
procedures to be applied. AU § 312, ¶ 17. “Higher risk may cause the auditor to expand the 
extent of procedures applied, apply procedures closer to or as of year-end, particularly in critical 
audit areas, or modify the nature of procedures to obtain more persuasive evidence.” AU § 312, ¶ 
17. 

       39.     Aesoph, as the engagement partner, was responsible for the audit engagement and 
its performance, for proper supervision of the work of the engagement team members, and for 
compliance with PCAOB standards.  Aesoph sought and received the assistance of Bennett, who 
was the senior manager on the 2008 TierOne audit , in fulfilling his responsibilities as 
engagement partner. 

        40.    Bennett contributed significantly to the planning of the audit , the design of tests of 
controls, and the design and implementation of substantive procedures  . Additionally, Bennett 
was responsible for executing the audit, including directing the audit engagement team  on how to 
conduct the audit. Bennett reviewed the audit work  papers and  was responsible for on- site 
supervision of the audit engagement  team . Bennett also played a significant role in gathering and 
evaluating evidential matter to support the audit of ALLL, and specifically the valuation of 
collateral underlying the bank’s FAS 114 loans. Bennett, like Aesoph, was responsible for 
compliance with PCAOB standards with respect to the supervisory responsibilities that were 
assigned to him.4
                    

                                                           
4
 See, e.g., In the Matter of Robert M. Harbrecht, CPA and Brian R. Spires, CPA          , Rel. No. 34-
56469, AAE Rel. No. 2720 (Sept. 19, 2007) (experienced senior manager who was responsible, 
 
                                                9 
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

                                                   

       41.     At the completion of the audit, both Aesoph and Bennett signed off that “all 
necessary auditing procedures were completed,” that “support for conclusions was obtained,” 
and that “sufficient appropriate audit evidence was obtained.” Further, Aesoph specifically 
signed off on the audit checklist ’s requirement that the audit engagement team had “performed 
and documented its work in compliance with . . . applicable auditing standards . . . , and the 
working papers demonstrate this compliance.” 

       42.     As detailed below, Aesoph and Bennett’s conduct in planning, supervising, and 
implementing KPMG’s audit of TierOne’s 2008 financial statements – and specifically the 
portions of the audit relating to the bank’s FAS 114 loans – violated numerous PCAOB 
standards. Most prominently  , the auditors violated the requirements of AS No. 5 regarding audits 
of internal control over financial reporting , and AU Sections 328 (auditing fair value 
measurements) and 342 (auditing accounting estimates)     related to the substantive audit 
procedures . Aesoph and Bennett also violated:  the third general audit standard (due professional 
care), see  AU § 150, ¶ 2; and the third standard of field work (obtaining sufficient competent 
evidential matter), see AU § 150, ¶ 2; AS No. 3; and AU §§ 230, 312, 316,    319, 326, 333, and 
561. 

       2.      The Audit of TierOne’s Internal Controls Violated Professional Standards           

       43.     KPMG performed an integrated audit of TierOne, meaning that the audit of 
TierOne’s internal control over financial reporting was integrated with the  audit of TierOne’s 
financial statements.  When an auditor assesses control risk below the maximum level, as    the 
auditors did here, he or she should obtain sufficient evidential matter to support that assess
          §                                                                                 ed 
level. AU 319, ¶¶ 80, 90. Moreover, if one or more material weaknesses exist, the company’s 
internal control over financial reporting cannot be considered effective.  AS No. 5, ¶ 2.  A 
material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over 
financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the 
company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely 
basis.  AS No. 5, Appendix A, ¶ A7. 

       44.     AS No. 5 provides specific requirements for auditing internal control over 
financial reporting in an integrated audit, including that the auditors should understand likely 
sources of potential misstatements and focus  more of  their attention on the areas  of highest risk. 
But the key ALLL   control that  the  audit engagement team  identified (the bank’s Asset 
Classification Committee) did not effectively address the riskiest component of the ALLL    : the 
bank’s valuation of collateral for the bank’s FAS 114 loans with  stale appraisals .  In addition, the 
audit engagement team failed to identify or test any effective internal controls to determine 
whether TierOne was compl    ying with its own policies for updating appraisals. The auditors 
therefore violated AS No. 5, and further lacked a reasonable basis for KPMG’s conclusion that 
there were no material weaknesses in TierOne’s internal control over financial reporting. 

                                                                                                                                                                                            
along with partner, for planning and executing audit sanctioned pursuant to Rule 102(e) for 
violations of PCAOB standards). 

                                                10  
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

                                                  

              a.      Relevant PCAOB Standards 

       45.     In an integrated audit, an auditor should design tests of controls to obtain 
sufficient evidence both to support his or her opinion on internal control over financial reporting 
and to support his or her control risk assessments for the purpose of the audit of the financial 
statements. AS No. 5, ¶ 7. 

       46.     Auditors also should determine  and understand the likely sources of potential 
misstatements. One of the ways to do so is “by asking himself or herself ‘what could go wrong?’ 
within a given significant account or disclosure.” AS No. 5, ¶¶ 28-31.  

       47.     To further understand the likely sources of potential misstatements, and as part of 
selecting the controls to test, the auditor should understand the flow of transactions related to the 
relevant assertions, identify points within the company’s processes at which a misstatement 
could arise that would be material, and identify the controls that management has implemented 
to address these potential misstatements.  AS No. 5, ¶ 34. 

       48.     Performing a “walkthrough” is often the most effective way to understand likely   
sources of potential misstatements and identify the appropriate controls to test. AS No. 5, ¶ 37. 
Walkthroughs require the auditor to “follow[ ] a transaction from origination through the 
company’s processes . . . until it is reflected in the company’ s financial records, using the same 
documents and information technology that company personnel use.” AS      No. 5, ¶ 37. 

       49.     The selection of the controls to test, and the evidence needed to evaluate a given 
control, are driven by the auditors’ risk assessment. AS No. 5, ¶ 10. “The auditor should focus 
more of his or her attention on the areas of highest risk,” taking into consideration the risks such 
as the risk of fraud with respect to significant management estimates. AS No. 5, ¶¶ 11, 14. 
Further, the level of evidence needed increases as the risk associated with the control increases. 
AS No. 5, ¶¶ 46 -47.  

       50.     Some types of tests, by their nature, produce greater evidence of the effectiveness 
of controls than other tests .  AS No. 5, ¶ 50.  PCAOB standards include a hierarchy of tests. 
Inquiry, which ordinarily produces the lowest level of evidence, is never alone sufficient to 
support a conclusion about the effectiveness of a control. AS No. 5, ¶¶ 45, 50. 

       51.     If there are deficiencies in a company’s internal control over financial reporting 
that, individually or in combination, result in one or more material weaknesses, the auditor “must 
express an adverse opinion on the company’ s internal control over financial reporting, unless 
there is a restriction on the scope of the engagement.” AS No. 5, ¶ 90. 

       52.     Aesoph and Bennett’s internal control test work did not comply with the 
foregoing PCAOB standards.     

               b.     Failure to Identify Effective Controls over the Valuation of the 
                      Collateral for the Bank’s FAS 114 Loans 

       53.     Aesoph and Bennett both reviewed and approved  key audit work papers involving 
the evaluation and testing of TierOne’s internal controls ove r the ALLL. These work papers 

                                               11  
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

                                                  

identified seventeen key controls over TierOne’s loan process. The audit engagement team   used  
the work of TierOne’s internal audit department to provide evidence on many of these controls, 
but determined to independently test five key controls “due to the fraud risk and/or the high risk 
of failure associated with the controls.” Each of these five controls purported to address some 
aspect of TierOne’s problem loans. None, however, effectively  addressed  TierOne’s valuation of 
the collateral underlying the bank’s FAS 114 loans. 

       54.    The key control identified for prevention of a material misstatement of the ALLL 
was TierOne’s Asset Classification Committee   review . However, while the audit work papers do 
identify that the Asset Classification Committee had general responsibility for th e ALLL, there is 
no reference to whether or how the Committee   assessed the value of the collateral underlying 
individual loans  evaluated under FAS 114, including any necessary adjustments to appraised 
values. The Asset Classification Committee  meeting minutes included in the work papers contain 
no discussion about discounting stale appraisals or otherwise estimating the value of collateral .  

       55.    The Asset Classification Committee    was not an effective control over valuation of 
the collateral underlying the bank’s FAS 114 loans. The Committee   did not generate or review 
written documentation to support TierOne’s calculations, including, specifically , documentation 
of the rationale and basis for management’s assumptions regarding valuation of collateral . 
Without such documentation, there was insufficient evidence upon which to conclude that the 
bank’s internal controls related to valuation of collateral were effective.  See                                                                         FRR No. 28;  see 
also SAB 102.  

       56.    The other controls independently tested during the audit also failed to address 
TierOne’s valuation  of collateral underlying t he bank’s FAS 114 loans. Further, the 
“walkthrough” described in the audit work papers , which was specifically reviewed by Bennett, 
was insufficient to provide  a sufficient understanding of the valuation process or to identify 
important points at which a necessary control in the process was missing or was not designed 
effectively.  See             AS No. 5, ¶¶ 37, 38.  

              c.      Failure to Identify or Test C ontrols Relating to Compliance with     
                      TierOne’s Appraisal Policies 

       57.    TierOne’s written lending policy required all loans to be supported by “current 
appraisals or evaluations.” The policy noted that “[i]n a rapidly escalating or deteriorating 
market, a value may be valid for only a few months.” The policy also stated that new appraisals 
should be obtained when a loan was renewed, extended, or refinanced if market deterioration 
indicated that the collateral may no longer fully protect the loan.   

       58.    While TierOne’s lending policy may have been sound, it was not in and of    itself a 
control. The auditors failed to identify any control to ensure compliance with this policy. In fact, 
TierOne frequently ignored or violated this policy, continuing to rely on stale appraisals in 
significantly deteriorated markets. TierOne also failed to obtain new appraisals on loans that had 
been modified.  

                                               12 
 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

                                                 

              d.      The Absence of These Controls Was a Material Weakness  

       59.    PCAOB audit standards define a material weakness as a deficiency, or a 
combination of deficiencies , in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a 
reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial 
statements will not be prevented or detected  on a timely basis . AS No. 5, Appx. A, ¶ 7.  Whether 
a deficiency or combination of deficiencies rises to the level of a material weakness depends on 
the severity of the deficiencies. AS No. 5, ¶¶ 62-63. The absence of effective controls over the 
valuation of collateral underlying the bank’s FAS 114 loans and over  compliance with TierOne’s 
appraisal renewal policy, individually or in combination, represented a material weakness in 
TierOne’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. Because of the 
material weakness in internal control, KPMG should have issued an adverse opinion on the 
bank’s internal control over financial reporting. Further, the auditors’ inappropriate conclusion 
that controls were effective led to an unsupported – and incorrect – conclusion that, for purposes 
of the financial statement audit, the risk of significant misstatement with respect to the ALLL 
was only moderate. 

       3.     Substantive Testing of the Bank’s FAS 114 Loans       Violated Professional 
              Standards 

       60.    Adding to the  failures in connection with auditing TierOne’s internal control over 
ALLL were Aesoph and Bennett’s     deficient substantive audit procedures. Specifically, the audit 
engagement team failed to follow PCAOB standards in reviewing the reasonableness of 
management’s estimates of the value of the collateral underlying the bank’s FAS 114 loans – one 
of the   riskiest and  most critical elements  of the bank’s FAS 114 loss estimate  calculation . The 
audit engagement team relied  principally on the most recent ( and often stale) appraisals  given 
them and on management’s uncorroborated representations of current value  . The audit 
engagement team relied on these representations  despite evidence that management’s estimates 
were biased and inconsistent with independent market data . Bennett was directly involved in the 
audit engagement team’s FAS 114 test work. Specifically: Bennett initially reviewed the 
individual spreadsheets prepared by TierOne that purported to justify the valuation of the 
underlying collateral of the bank’s FAS 114 loans ; Bennett supervised the audit test work and 
collection of evidential matter, including meeting directly with management to discuss 
management’s estimates of the value of collateral; and Bennett approved the audit engagement 
team’s FAS 114 test work prior to passing it to Aesoph. Aesoph reviewed   the FAS 114 test work 
prior to signing the audit opinion. By failing to subject management’s estimates to appropriate 
scrutiny, the auditors violated PCAOB standards, including particularly AU Sections 328 and  
342, which address auditing fair value and accounting estimates, respectively.  The auditors 
failed to obtain sufficient, competent evidential matter to provide assurances that management’s 
estimates were reasonable. They further failed to act with due professional care or appropriate 
professional skepticism. 

              a.      Relevant PCAOB Standards 

       61.    TierOne’s calculation of the appropriate loss reserve on the bank’s FAS 114 
loans, which was based largely on an assessment of the value of the underlying collateral, was an 
estimate. As such, the auditors’ responsibility was to obtain sufficient competent evidence to 

                                               13 
 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

                                                  

provide reasonable assurance that the estimates were reasonable and presented in conformity 
with the relevant accounting principles. AU §§ 328, ¶ 3; 342, ¶ 7.  

       62.     In evaluating reasonableness, the auditor should obtain an understanding of how 
management developed the estimate.  Based on that understanding, the auditor should use    one or 
a combination of the following  approaches : (1)  review and test the process used by management 
to develop the estimate; (2) develop an independent expectation of the estimate to corroborate 
the reasonableness of management’s estimate;   or  (3) review subsequent events or transactions 
occurring prior to the date of the auditor’s report. AU § 342, ¶ 10; see also  AU 328, ¶ 23. 

       63.     Where management’s estimate is based on a valuation, such as an appraisal  , that 
was made prior to the financial reporting date, the following is an example of a consideration in 
the development of audit procedures: “obtain[ing]  evidence that management has taken into 
account the effect of events, transactions, and changes in circumstances occurring between the 
date of the fair value measurement and the reporting date.” AU § 328, ¶ 25; see also AU § 313, ¶ 
3 (“Applying principal substantive tests to the details of an asset or liability account as of an 
interim date rather than as of the balance-sheet date potentially increases the risk that 
misstatements that may exist at the balance-sheet date will not be detected by the auditor.”), ¶ 6 
(“The auditor should consider whether there are rapidly changing business conditions or 
circumstances that might predispose management to misstate financial statements in the 
remaining period. If such conditions or circumstances are present, the auditor might conclude 
that the substantive tests to cover the remaining period would not be effective in controlling the 
incremental audit risk associated with them. In those situations, the asset and liability accounts 
affected should ordinarily be examined as of the balance-sheet date.”). 

       64.     Importantly, because estimates were involved, the auditors were required to be 
particularly attuned to management bias – intentional or not. Among other things, auditors 
normally should consider “the historical experience of the entity in making past estimates.” AU § 
342, ¶ 9. “Even when management’s estimation process involves competent personnel using 
relevant and reliable data, there is potential for bias in the subjective factors. Accordingly, when 
planning and performing procedures to evaluate accounting estimates, the auditor should 
consider, with an attitude of professional skepticism, both the subjective and objective factors” 
management used in making the estimates. AU § 342, ¶ 4. 

       65.     Further, as the auditors had correctly identified TierOne’s ALLL as presenting a 
risk of fraud and a high risk of error, the auditors had a heightened responsibility over this area. 
AU § 312, ¶ 17 (“Higher risk may   cause the auditor to expand the extent of procedures applied, 
apply procedures closer to or as of year end, particularly in critical audit areas, or modify the 
nature of procedures to obtain more persuasive evidence.”); AU § 316, ¶ 2 (“[T]he auditor’ s 
response to the risks of material misstatement due to fraud involves the application of 
professional skepticism when gathering and evaluating audit evidence.”).  

                                               14  
 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

                                                  

       Because of the characteristics of fraud, the auditor’s exercise of professional 
       skepticism is important when considering the risk of material misstatement due to 
       fraud.  Professional skepticism is an attitude that includes a questioning mind and 
       a critical assessment of audit evidence. The auditor should conduct the 
       engagement with a mindset that recognizes the possibility that a material 
       misstatement due to fraud could be present, regardless of any past experience with 
       the entity and regardless of the auditor’s belief about management’s honesty and 
       integrity. Furthermore, professional skepticism requires an ongoing questioning of 
       whether the information and evidence obtained suggests that a material 
       misstatement due to fraud has occurred. In exercising professional skepticism in 
       gathering and evaluating evidence, the auditor should not be satisfied with less-
       than-persuasive evidence because of a belief that management is honest. 

AU § 316, ¶ 13.  

       66.     The risk of material misstatement generally increases where, as here, the relevant 
account is an estimate. AU § 312, ¶ 36. While estimates may differ, an unreasonable estimate 
should be considered a likely misstatement. AU § 312, ¶ 36. The auditor  should also consider 
whether differences in management’s estimates and estimates best supported by the audit 
evidence suggest possible management bias. AU § 312, ¶ 36. 

       67.     While representations from management are a part of the audit evidence, “they 
are not a substitute for the application of those auditing procedures necessary to afford a 
reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the financial statements under audit.” AU § 333, ¶ 2. 
This is particularly true in an area, like the ALLL, involving estimates. AU § 316, ¶ 54 (“In 
addressing an identified risk of material misstatement due to fraud involving accounting 
estimates, the auditor may want to supplement the audit evidence otherwise obtained ….”)   . It is 
even more critical where the audit area involves a risk of fraud. AU § 316, ¶ 46 (“Examples of 
the application of professional skepticism in response to the risks of material misstatement due to 
fraud are … obtaining additional corroboration of management’s explanations or representations 
concerning material matters, such as through third-party confirmation, the use of a specialist, 
analytical procedures, examination of documentation from independent sources, or inquiries of 
others within or outside the entity.”); AU 316 ¶ 53 (example of modification of procedures in 
response to identified risks of material  misstatement due to fraud include “[i]nterviewing 
personnel involved in activities in areas where a risk of material misstatement due to fraud has 
been identified to obtain their insights about the risk and how controls address the risk”); AU § 
326, ¶ 21 (“When evidential matter can be obtained from independent sources outside an entity, 
it provides greater assurance of reliability for the purposes of an independent audit than that 
secured solely within the entity …. The independent auditor’s direct personal knowledge, 
obtained through physical examination, observation, computation, and inspection, is more 
persuasive than information obtained indirectly.”). 

       68.     The auditor should be thorough in his or her search for evidential matter and 
unbiased in its evaluation.  AU § 326, ¶ 25; see also id. (“                                            In developing his or her opinion, the 
auditor should consider relevant evidential matter regardless of whether it appears to corroborate 
or to contradict the assertions in the financial statements .”).  The inability to obtain sufficient 

                                               15  
 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

                                                 

competent evidential matter may require the auditor to qualify his or her opinion or to disclaim 
an opinion.   See AU § 508, ¶ 22. 

       69.    Finally, auditors are required to clearly document the work they perform. See AS 
No. 3. “Audit documentation should be prepared in sufficient detail to provide a clear 
understanding of its purpose, source, and the conclusions reached.” AS No. 3, ¶ 4. “The auditor 
must document the procedures performed, evidence obtained, and conclusions reached with 
respect to relevant financial statement assertions.” AS No. 3, ¶ 6. “Audit documentation must 
clearly demonstrate that the work was in fact performed.” AS No. 3, ¶ 6. “Because audit 
documentation is the written record that provides the support for the representations in the 
auditor’s report, it should,” among other things, “[d]emonstrate that the engagement complied 
with the standards of the PCAOB.” AS No. 3, ¶ 5. 

       70.    Aesoph and Bennett’s substantive audit procedures fell short of these standards. 

              b.      Improper Professional Conduct      

       71.    TierOne estimated the value of the collateral underlying the bank’s FAS 114 loans  
on a loan -by-loan basis because the bank’s FAS 114 portfolio was made up of large, non-
homogenous loans. The  refore, the audit engagement team performed a loan  -by-loan review of 
the bank’s FAS 114 loan portfolio to test whether management’s estimates of value were 
reasonable.  However, t he substantive audit procedures and the evidence obtained from those 
procedures were insufficient to meet PCAOB standards.   
                                                         

                     i.      Failure to Test Management’s Estimates of Collateral Value 

       72.    The audit engagement team obtained and reviewed each of the more than fifty 
FAS 114 spreadsheets prepared by the bank. Most of the   audit work was simply “ticking and 
tying”: recalculating figures, agreeing charge off amounts, and tying reported appraisal values to 
the actual appraisals.  

       73.    The audit engagement team    did, however, obtain  a sample of original appraisals 
from management for additional testing .  Specifically, the audit engagement team assumed that 
appraisals less than a year old were “current” (regardless of the market).  For appraisals older 
than a year, they inquire d whether a discount was applied to the appraised value, and if not, they 
inquired why TierOne didn’t think it was necessary or appropriate.  In addition, Bennett and 
members of the audit engagement team discussed with management a sample of FAS 114 
calculations and recent trends, and “leveraged” information from certain loan reviews.5
                                                                                       
Following this test work, Bennett also reviewed and discussed the bank’s FAS 114 spreadsheets 
with Aesoph to ensure that Aesoph was satisfied with the audit engagement team’s conclusions. 
Based on the entirety of these procedures, the auditors  concluded that “the FAS 114 calculations 

                                                           
5
 Although the auditors may have “leve raged” the aspects of the loan reviews that arguably 
supported their conclusions as to the reasonableness of management’s valuations of certain of the 
bank’s FAS 114 loans, they ignored information in those same loan reviews that contradicted 
management’s valuation   assessment .  

                                               16 
 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

                                                 

appear to be properly prepared and adequately supported at 12/31/08.” Aesoph and Bennett 
lacked a reasonable basis for this conclusion. 

       74.    Aesoph and Bennett relied on an unsupported – and unsupportable – a   ssumption 
that appraisals less than a year old were “current ,” without regard to the property’s location or 
stage of development, and that market conditions had not materially deteriorated throughout the 
year. Many of the markets in which TierOne’s collateral was located were seeing significant 
continuing quarterly declines in the value of real estate. In addition, many of the properties that 
served as collateral were under development and in varying stages of completion. TierOne’s 
lending policy cautioned against relying on aged appraisals in these markets. According to the 
policy, “[i]n a rapidly escalating or deteriorating market, a[n appraisal] value may be valid for 
only a few months.” Despite this policy, Aesoph and Bennett arbitrarily assumed that only 
appraisals older than a year potentially needed adjusting. 

       75.    This assumption that appraisals up to a year old were current was unsupported by 
any evidence and particularly troubling in the Nevada market. As noted above, TierOne’s 
memorandum prepared to support its ALLL balance – a memo      annotated by the audit 
engagement team, included in the audit work papers , and reviewed by Aesoph and Bennett – 
noted that the bank would estimate collateral for Nevada real estate by discounting appraisals 
older than six months, acknowledging that six month old appraisals in that market were not 
reflective of current market conditions. Even so, t he bank failed to discount many Nevada 
appraisals that were more than six months old and Aesoph and Bennett failed to reconcile the 
inconsistency between the bank’s stated practice and its actual practice. 

       76.    In addition, the test work over management’s  valuation  estimates was insufficient. 
Again, according to its audit program, the audit engagement team would “inquire” of 
management whether discounts had been applied to older appraisals  , and if not, why not. But 
uncorroborated management representations are not sufficient evidence in a high risk audit area.   

       77.    Further calling into question the auditors’ work, the auditors relied on 
management’s uncorroborated representations even though independent evidence indicated that 
management’s estimating and discounting decisions were biased. As noted above, earlier in 
2008, the OTS had determined that TierOne had underreported its ALLL by nearly 25%. And the 
few times TierOne obtained a new appraisal on an impaired loan throughout 2008, that new 
appraisal typically showed that TierOne’s valuation in the immediately preceding quarter was 
seriously deficient. In addition, TierOne’s discount decisions and amounts were often 
significantly different on properties in the same market, and were typically inconsistent with 
third-party market information. Further, the rationale for TierOne’s discounting decisions was 
not documented. Despite th ese red flags, the auditors  continued to rely on management’s 
representations regarding management’s  appraisal discounting decisions, without performing any 
additional test work or obtaining independent corroboration of management’s representations .    

       78.    Auditors are required to document their work, including the procedures performed 
and the evidence obtained.  Based upon the documentation in the audit work papers, including 
the audit programs, memoranda, and individual FAS 114 loan analyses, the audit engagement 
team obtained little if any reliable or persuasive evidence with respect to management’s 
adjustments (or lack thereof) to stale appraised values.  The little that is documented shows that 

                                               17 
 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

                                                 

Bennett and the audit engagement team made various inquiries of management and accepted 
management’s representations.  There is little to no documentation of management ’s 
representations with respect to specific properties, or of the auditors performing any rigorous 
testing or independent corroboration of management’s  discounting decisions. T he audit 
documentation does not demonstrate that the engagement complied with the standards of the 
PCAOB. 

                     ii.     Failure to Corroborate Additional Information 

       79.    In addition to appraisal information, TierOne’s FAS 114 worksheets sporadically  
contained references to other information in support of management’s estimates of the fair value 
of the collateral. This information included, for example, asking prices, borrower development 
plans and status, estimated costs to complete, offers to purchase, and other information. The 
auditors failed to obtain independent corroboration of any of this information. 

       4.     The Auditors’ Failure to Recognize Bias in Management’s Estimates        
              Violated Professional Standards  

       80.    Exacerbating Aesoph and Bennett’s failures surrounding   the reasonableness of 
management’s loan loss estimates on its FAS 114 loans was their failure to recognize bias in 
those same estimates.  

              a.      Relevant PCAOB Standards 

       81.    As noted above, auditors normally should consider “the historical experience of 
the entity in making past estimates.” AU § 342, ¶ 9. Relatedly,  “[t]he auditor also should perform 
a retrospective review of significant accounting estimates reflected in the financial statements of 
the prior year to determine whether management judgments and assumptions relating to the 
estimates indicate a possible bias on the part of management.” AU § 316, ¶ 64. “With the benefit 
of hindsight, a retrospective review should provide the auditor with additional information about 
whether there may be a possible bias on the part of management in making the current-year 
estimates.” AU § 316, ¶ 64. 

              b.      Improper Professional Conduct               

       82.    Consistent with PCAOB standards, KPMG’s audit program required the auditors 
to assess management bias . The auditors claimed to do so, noting in the audit completion 
document that  

       [t]he Company’s historical ability to reliably develop significant estimates has 
       been adequate.  We have considered current events as they relate to prior quarters 
       and years during our audit procedures and noted there was no indication of bias 
       on management’s part in developing their estimates. 

       83.    This conclusion was inconsistent with the OTS’ findings in June 2008 about 
management’s numerous failures to develop reliable estimates. It was also inconsistent with 
evidence of management bias that surfaced throughout 2008. As discussed above, Aesoph and 
Bennett knew that the  OTS identified a de ficiency in TierOne’s ALLL that represented 

                                              18  
 
---------------------Page 19---------------------

                                                  

approximately 25% of the ALLL balance at the time. Further, as discussed above, Aesoph and 
Bennett knew, or should have known, that the limited  instances in which the bank actually 
obtained new appraisals on impaired loans resulted in significant declines in the value of the 
collateral both compared to the previous quarter and, in some cases, compared to the values used 
in the prior year. In many cases, these new appraisals resulted in significant increases in the loan 
loss provisions associated with these loans. Despite this evidence, the auditors improperly 
concluded that the bank’s estimation process was “adequate” and that there was “no indication of 
bias on management’s part.”  

       5.      The Failure to Investigate Subsequent Discovery of Facts      Violated 
               Professional Standards 

       84.     Finally, the auditors failed to investigate facts discovered after the date of their 
report on the 2008 financial statements that may have affected the 2008 financial statements.  

               a.     Relevant PCAOB Standards 

       85.     PCAOB audit standards set out a number of steps that should be taken by an 
auditor who, “subsequent to the date of the report upon audited financial statements, becomes 
aware that facts may have existed at that date which might have affected the report had he or she 
then been aware of such facts.” AU § 561, ¶ 1. As an initial matter, “[w]hen the auditor becomes 
aware of information which relates to financial statements previously reported on by him, but 
which was not known to him at the date of his report, and which is of such a nature and from 
such a source that he would have investigated it had it come to his attention during the course of 
his audit, he should, as soon as practicable, undertake to determine whether the information is 
reliable and whether the facts existed at the date of his report.” AU § 561, ¶ 4. If in fact the 
information is reliable and existed at the date of the report, other steps may be required. AU § 
561, ¶¶ 5-8. “Subsequent events affecting the realization of assets . . . ordinarily will require 
adjustment of the financial statements . . . .” AU § 560, ¶ 7. 

              b.      Improper Professional Conduct  

       86.     During KPMG’s 2009 quarter    ly review s, the  engagement team learned of several 
borrower relationships that had new appraisals or valuations that likely existed at the date of 
KPMG’s 2008 audit report   , issued on March 12, 2009. In each case, that new valuation showed a 
significant decline from management’s estimate at year end. 6
                                                               

       87.     Despite learning that there were new appraisals and valuation assessments which 
were dated prior to the issuance of the 2008 audit report, Aesoph and Bennett failed to perform 
the procedures required by AU § 561. Rather, Aesoph and Bennett assumed they had no reason 
to investigate because, they claim, they received  representations from management shortly 
before issuing their audit opinion that no new appraisals had been received that impacted the 
2008 financial statements. This is, however, precisely what should have triggered AU § 561: new 

                                                           
6
 The specific loans included : Celebrate 50, MME, Ashley Turner , Stratton Group, Blake Home 
Builders, and Den Mark Construction. 

                                               19  
 
---------------------Page 20---------------------

                                                  

information came to light after the audit report was issued that was inconsistent with previous 
information and, for that matter, management ’s purported representations that all new appraisals 
had been given to KPMG. Aesoph and Bennett had an obligation to investigate, but failed to do 
so.  

G.     Violations 

       88.    As described in detail above, Aesoph and Bennett violated numerous PCAOB 
audit standards, failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to support their audit 
conclusions, and failed to exercise due professional care and appropriate professional skepticism.  

       89.    Specifically, Aesoph and Bennett violated: the third general audit standard (due 
professional care), see                    AU § 150, ¶ 2; the third standard of field work (competent evidential 
matter), see  AU § 150, ¶ 2; AS Nos. 3 and 5; and AU §§ 230, 312, 316, 319, 326, 328, 333, 342, 
and 561. 

       90.    Aesoph and Bennett engaged in improper professional conduct, as defined in 
Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii), in that their conduct constituted 
negligent conduct consisting of (1) a single instance of highly unreasonable conduct that resulted 
in a violation of applicable professional standards in which Aesoph and Bennett knew, or should 
have known, that heightened scrutiny was warranted, or (2) repeated instances of unreasonable 
conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of 
competence to practice before the Commission. 

                                              III. 

       In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement and the Office of Chief 
Accountant, the Commission deems it appropriate that public administrative proceedings be 
instituted to determine: 

       A.     Whether the allegations set forth in Section II hereof are true and to afford 
Respondents Aesoph and Bennett an opportunity to establish any defenses to such allegations; 
and 

       B.     What, if any, remedial action is appropriate against Respondents Aesoph and 
Bennett pursuant to Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules 
of Practice, including, but not limited to, censure or denying, temporarily or permanently, the 
privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission. 

                                              IV. 

       IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the 
questions set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened at a time and place to be fixed, and 
before an Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.110. 

                                               20 
 
---------------------Page 21---------------------

                                                 

       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents Aesoph and Bennett shall file their 
answers to the allegations contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this 
Order, as provided by Rule 220 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220. 

       If Respondents Aesoph or Bennett fail to file the directed answer, or fail to appear at a 
hearing after being duly notified, the Respondents may be deemed in default and the proceedings 
may be determined against the Respondents upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of 
which may be deemed to be true as provided by Rules 155(a)  , 220(f), 221(f), and 310 of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. §§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f), and 201.310. 

       This Order shall be served upon the Respondents personally or by certified mail. 

       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an initial 
decision no later than 300 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to Rule 360(a)(2) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.360(a)(2). 

       In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission 
engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually 
related proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter, except 
as a witness or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice. Since this proceeding is not a 
“rule making” within the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it is not 
deemed subject to the provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any final 
Commission action. 

       By the Commission. 

 

                                                           Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                           Secretary 
 
 

                                               21 
 
