---------------------Page 1---------------------

                          UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                      Before the  
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 69442 / April 24, 2013                        
  
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT                                                    
Release No. 3456 / April 24, 2013  
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15299 
  
 In the Matter of                  ORDER INSTITUTING  
                                   CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
 CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL             SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
 CORPORATION, PETER A.             EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING  
 SCHNALL, AND DAVID A.             FINDINGS AND IMPOSING CEASE          -AND-DESIST 
 LAGASSA,                          ORDER AND CIVIL PENALTIES 
  
 Respondents.  
 
                                            
                                          I.  
       
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Capital One Financial Corporation, 
Peter A. Schnall, and David A. LaGassa ( collectively “Respondents”).  
 
                                          II.  
       
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers  
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over themselves and the subject 
matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent  to the entry of this Order  
Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, Making Findings and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Orders and Civil Penalties  
(“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                         III.  
 
      On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offer s, the Commission finds that:  
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                 
                                                 
                                          SUMMARY 
 
1.     Capital One Financial Corporation (“Capital One”), a provider of consumer and 
commercial lending and diversified banking services, materially understated  its provision for 
loan and lease losses (the “provision for loan losses” or “loan loss expense” ) for the second and 
third quarters of 2007.  The understatement was of the provision for loan losses for Capital One’s 
auto finance business, known as Capital One Auto Finance (“COAF”).  As a result of the 
understatement, Capital One materially understated its provision for loan losses by as much as 
$72 million for its second quarterly filing  and  as much as $ 51 million in its third quarterly filing.  
Capital One also  failed to maintain effective internal controls to ensure the appropriate  and 
accurate recording and reporting of its loan loss expenses.  Accordingly, Capital One violated the 
reporting, books and records and internal controls provisions of the Exchange Act, and Capital 
One’s Chief Risk Officer at the time , Peter A. Schnall (“Schnall”),  and COAF’s Divisional 
Credit Officer at the time, David A. LaGassa (“LaGassa”)  were each a  cause of Capital One’s 
violations.   
 
2.     Starting no later than October 2006 and continuing through the third quarter of 2007, 
COAF, as well as nearly every other Capital One consumer lending business, experienced 
significantly higher charge-offs and delinquencies for its loans than it had forecasted.  COAF, 
whose profitability was primarily derived from extending credit to subprime consumers  , 
experienced these higher loss variances  across all types of loans.  By the second quarter of 2007, 
credit markets began to deteriorate, and COAF assessed from its internal loss forecasting tool 
that its escalating loss variances  were  attributable to an increase in a forecasting factor it called 
the “exogenous.”  This factor  measured the impact on credit losses from conditions external to 
the business, including macroeconomic conditions.  A change in the exogenous factor   generally 
had a significant impact on  COAF’s loan loss expense, and it was closely monitored by the 
company thr ough its loss forecasting tool.   
 
3.     Instead of incorporating the full exogenous levels generated by its loss forecasting tool 
into COAF’s loss forecast, Capital One failed to include any of COAF’s  exogenous-driven losses 
for the second quarter provision for loan losses and only included one -third of such incurred 
losses in its third quarter provision for loan losses.  The ex ogenous losses were an integral 
component of Capital One’s methodology for calculating its provision for loan losses.  The 
decisions made concerning the treatment of elevated exogenous levels gave insufficient weight 
to the evidence available at the time.  As a result, Capital One’s second and third quarter loan 
loss expense for COAF did not appropriately  estimate pr obable incurred losses in accordance 
with accounting requirements.  Accordingly, Capital One violated the periodic reporting 
provisions of the Exchange Act.  
 
4.     As a result of Capital One’s understatement, Capital One’s consolidated provision for 
loan and lease losses was understated by approximately  18% in the second quarter  and 9% in  the 
third quarter of 2007.  COAF’s loan loss expense was understated by  approximately 40% and 
21%, respectively, for the second and third quarters of 2007.     
 

                                                2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

5.     Because Capital One failed to  include certain incurred losses as of its balance sheet date 
and adequately document the rati onale for its accounting treatment for such losses, it violated the 
books and records and internal control provisions of the federal securities laws.  These failures 
also violated Capital One’s own policies and procedures , which, among other things, required 
Capital One’s accounting group to  ensure that COAF’s loan loss expense was p   roperly supported 
and documented and required Capital One’s credit risk management function to fully disclose    the 
significant assumptions underlying its loan loss allowance determination to the management 
committee responsible for ensuring that Capital One’s allowance comported with accounting 
guidelines.   
 
                                       RESPONDENTS 
                                                  
6.     Capital One Financial Corp. is a Delaware company, headquartered in McLean, 
Virginia, that provides commercial and consumer lending and diversified banking services.  
Capital One’s common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the 
Exchange Act and traded on the New York Stock Exchange (Ticker: COF).  Capital One files 
periodic reports, including Forms 10-K and 10-Q, with the Commission pursuant to Section 
13(a) of the Exchange Act and related rules thereunder. 
 
7.     Peter A. Schnall, age 49 , was the Chief Risk Officer of Capital One, a position he held 
from June 2006 until January 31, 2013.  Beginning in 2002, Schnall oversaw    Capital One’s  
Credit Risk Management group.  As part of h  is responsibilities, Schnall supervised the Chief 
Consumer and Commercial Credit Officers.  As their supervisor, Schnall wa s ultimately 
responsible for, among other things, Credit Risk Management’s loan loss   allowance 
recommendations that are provided to Capital One’s Corporate Accounting Group, resulting 
from the quarterly loss forecasting process conducted by the Chief Consumer and Commercial 
Credit Officers’ organizations for each of Capital One’s consumer and commercial lending 
divisions.  Schnall reported directly to the Chief Executive Officer of Capital One.   
        
8.     David A. LaGassa, age 44, is currently a Managing Vice President     within Capital One’s 
Financial Services division.  From March 2007 through March 2010, incl   uding the time of the 
events described in this Order, LaGassa was the Divisional Credit Officer for COAF.  As the 
Divisional Credit Officer, LaGassa was responsible for managing the COAF loss    -forecasting 
function.  LaGassa reported to the Chief Consumer Credit Officer, who, in turn, reported to 
Schnall.   
 
                                            FACTS 
                                                  
Relevant Accounting Principles for Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses 
 
9.     The allowance for loan and lease losses (“allowance”) represents a company’s best 
estimate of incurred losses1
                            inherent in its  loan portfolio at any g iven financial reporting date.  
                                                 
1
   The term “incurred losses” refers to an estimated loss that meets the following two conditions for accrual as set 
forth in paragraph 8 of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“FAS”) No. 5 (“FAS 5”), Accounting for 
Contingencies: “(a) information available prior to the issuance of the financial statements indicates that it is probable 
 
                                                3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

The provision for loan losses , in turn, is the periodic cost (i.e., quarterly, annually, etc.) of 
maintaining an adequate allowance.  An increase to the allowance, or an “allowance               build,” is 
recorded as an expense on the institution’s in      come statement and decreases net income for that 
period.  The C  ommission has issued extensive guidance to financial institutions to ensure that 
their accounting for loan losses is consistent with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
(“GAAP”) and well documented.         2
                                          
 
10.     In accounting for COAF’s loan loss expense, Capital One was required to satisfy the 
requirements of FAS 5, which, generally, provides that losses should be recorded if they are both 
probable and reasonably estimable.      3
                                           Pursuant to FAS 5    , an entity must capture the reasonable 
estimate of losses “in light of the current economic environment” that exists as of the balance 
sheet date. 4
               Giv en that the allowance is subjective and repres      ents one of the key elements in a 
bank’s financial statements, it is critical to maintain rigorous internal controls over the 
allowance-setting process.    5
                                  
                                                                                                                                                             
that an asset had been impaired or a liability had been incurred at the date of the financial statements  […]; and (b  ) 
the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.”  Further, FASB Interpretation  No. 14, Reasonable Estimation 
of the Amount of a Loss an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 5, states in paragraph 3 (in part) “[w]hen 
condition (a) in paragraph 8 is met with respect to a particular loss contingency and the reasonable estimate of the 
loss is a range, condition (b) in paragraph 8 is met and an amount shall be accrued for the loss.  When some amount 
within the range appears at the time to be a better estimate than any other amount within the range, that amount shall 
be accrued.” 
2
 Accounting for loan losses is governed b y FAS 5, Accounting for Contingencies, and FAS No. 114, Accounting by 
Creditors for Impairment of a Loan.  In December 1986, the SEC issued Financial Reporting Release No. 28, which 
added subsection (b) Procedural Discipline in Determining the Allowance and Provision for Loan Losses to be 
Reported, of Section 401.09, Accounting for Loan Losses by Registrants Engaged in Lending Activities, to the 
Codification of Financial Reporting Policies.  In July 2001, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 102 
(“SAB 102”), Selected Loan Loss Allowance Methodology and Documentation Issues.  In addition to Commission 
guidance, in July 2001, the banking regulators, after issuance of a proposed policy statement and consideration of 
comments, issued a “Policy Statement on Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses Methodologies and Documentation 
for Banks and Savings Institutions.”   
3
   Because Capital One has deemed the loans within the COAF portfolio to be a homogeneous population with 
similar risk characteristics, the company accounts for the COAF provision  for loan losses in accordance with FAS 5, 
rather than FAS 114. 
4
   Paragraph 23 of FAS 5 states “[w]hether the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated (the condition in 
paragraph 8(b)) will normally depend on, am ong other things, the experience of the enterprise, information about the 
ability of individual debtors to pay, and appraisal of the receivables in light of the current economic environment                                                                  .”  
(Emphasis added).  Interagency Policy Statement on the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses (“Interagency 
Policy”), which operates as regulatory interpretive guidance on FAS 5, similarly states that management should 
consider the impact of “current qualitative or environmental factors” that exists as of the balance sheet date.   
5
  Accounting for Loan Losses by Registrants Engaged in Lending Activities, 51 Fed. Reg. 237 (Dec. 10, 1986) 
(codified at 17 C.F.R. part 211) (“FR-28”) expresses the Commission’s views regarding certain matters affecting 
reported amounts of loan losses, including, among other things, the need for procedural discipline in determining 
amounts of loan losses to be reported.  Specifically, expected in the books and records of a registrant such as Capital 
One include “documentation of a systematic methodology to be employed each period in determining the amount of 
loan losses to be reported, and rationale supporting each period’s determination that the amoun ts reported were 
adequate.”  Further, “specific rationale upon which the amount actually reported in each individual period is based –  
i.e, the bridge between the findings of the detailed review and the amount actually reported in each period –  would 
be documented to help ensure the adequacy of the reported amount…”  Several years after the publication of FR-28, 
the SEC Staff issued SAB 102 to provide a more detailed explanation of its expectations concerning the allowance-
 

                                                       4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 
The Credit Risk Management Function 
 
11.    Capital One’s consumer credit divisions, during the relevant period, primarily include   d 
U.S. Credit Card, COAF, Installment Loans and the so-called United Kingdom division.  These 
businesses were divided in two distinct branches : Credit Risk Management (“CRM”), supervised 
by Schnall; and the branch that is responsible for, among other things, originating new loans, 
underwriting loans and marketing credit products (“the business side”), headed by t   he President 
of each of these businesses.  CRM is responsible for preparing the quarterly loss forecast that is 
used to develop the allowance.   Although the business side had no reporting duties to CRM or 
official loss forecasting responsibilities, CRM considered the business side an important 
stakeholder in the loss forecasting process and relied on it for providing views on credit risk 
during the relevant period. 
 
12.    Schnall had ultimate supervisory authority over t  he loss forecasting function for all 
consumer and commercial businesses at Capital One as well as CRM’s allowance 
recommendations for these businesses.  Schnall directly supervise   d the Chief Consumer Credit 
Officer for Capital One, who assumed the role in September of 2006.  The Chief Consume       r 
Credit Officer, in turn, directly supervises each Divisional Credit Officer (“DCO”) assigned to a 
particular business division.  The DCOs   manage the  teams that conduct  the quarterly loss 
forecasting process for their respective business divisions, which is used to generate a 
recommendation to the Chief Consumer Credit Officer, who then reviewed        that recommendation 
with Schnall.  The recommendation is then sent to Capital One’s senior finance and accounting 
officials for setting a provision for loan losses.  During the relevant period,  LaGassa was the 
DCO for COAF.  
 
Allowance Methodology for COAF and the “Exogenous Factor” 
 
13.    Capital One’s policies and procedures require   a systematic methodology to determine 
management’s best estimate of its allowance.  The methodology in place included the use of a 
loss forecasting tool known as “Look Ahead.”  The purpose of Look Ahead is to assist 
management in developing an accurate and reasonable quarterly loss forecast, which is used to 
make CRM’s allowance recommendation.   
 
14.    In preparing its quarterly loss forecast for COAF   during the relevant period, CRM 
considered, among other things, outputs from Look Ahead.  CRM’s loss forecast is, in turn, 
converted to an allowance recommendation for COAF.  Capital One’s internal controls over the 
loan loss expense component of its financial report ing, therefore, is directly impacted by Look 
Ahead.  Pursuant to Capital One’s policies and procedures   , CRM was required to document its 
                                                                                                                                                             
setting process, including the development, maintenance and documentation of a comprehensive, systematic and 
consistently applied process for determining the allowance.  SAB 102 further details that a registrant should 
“maintain documentation to support its method of estimating loan losses ” and “maintain copies of the economic and 
other reports that provided source data.”  SABs reflect the views of Commission staff regarding certain accounting -
related practices and represent interpretations and policies used by Commission staff to administer the federal 
securities laws. 

                                                 5 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

allowance recommendations and the key judgments underlying the recommendations.  By the 
time CRM adopted Look Ahead for use in COAF in the first quarter of 2007, the tool had been 
used for several years  by Capital One’s credit card division, its largest business.  CRM tested 
Look Ahead for use in COAF and concluded that the tool was superior to the then-  current loss 
forecasting tool, and adopted Look Ahead as part of its loss forecasting methodology in arriving 
at a reasonable forecast.   
        
15.    The Look Ahead model utilizes at least five years of COAF historical loss data , which is 
needed to run the model.  The tool analyzes actual loan losses and breaks them down into four  
constituent loss drivers:  (a) maturation (losses due to the age of an account); (b) vintage (losses 
due to credit quality based on when a loan was booked);  (c) seasonality (loss variance patterns 
due to the time of year); and (d) exogenous, a residual factor that identifies losses that Look 
Ahead is not able to attribute to any of the other three factors.  The exogenous output of Look 
Ahead can include both internally driven and externally driven factors, including losses relating 
to macroeconomic and credit deterioration.  An increase in the exogenous factor reflects an 
increase in losses across all loan vintages, regardless of the age of the accounts, including the 
broad spectrum of loans that do not share the same underwriting, pricing or collection strategy.  
In its loss forecasting policies and procedures, Capital One generally used  the term  “exogenous ” 
to represent losses driven by factors outside the company, including macroeconomic trends .   
 
16.    CRM’s loss forecasting policies during the  relevant period state d that  the  exogenous 
factor, a “key element” in loss forecasting, was estimated based on “ recent industry [exogenous] 
factor performance and the application of judgment.”  The pol icies further stated that the 
“general bias” was to estimate the exogenous  factor at current observed levels, unless there was 
compelling data” justifying a deviation.  Given that the external credit environment had a 
material impact on incurred losses during the second and third quarters of 2007, FAS 5 required 
that Capital One properly assess that environment in estimating its’ incurred exogenous-driven 
losses. 
        
17.    The exogenous factor  generated by Look Ahead was viewed by loss forecasters    at COAF , 
during the relevant period, as the most important factor in making an allowance recommendation  
and was closely monitored by Capital One  .  Unlike the other factors in the tool, the exogenous is 
a direct multiplier on the entire loss forecast.  
 
18.    CRM, in fact, adopted the Look Ahead tool in COAF because of its ability to develop a 
more reliable exogenous output  than the previous model generated.  CRM noted in its Look 
Ahead validation documents that accurate and timely understanding of the exogenous factor was 
“critical in an uncertain economic environment.”  CRM concluded, after a period of extensive 
testing, that the “Look Ahead generated exogenous curve is more aligned with several pieces of 
external data,” including competitor data, the credit card business’ exogenous factor, and other 
economic factors, such as trends in the Gross Domestic Product growth   rate, unemployment rate 
and used car p rice index.   
 
Deteriorating Credit Environment Prior to the Second Quarter of 2007  
 

                                                6 
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

19.    COAF’s auto financing business incl udes several lines of business  focused on dealer -
driven and direct financing platforms, both of which provide financing to subprime and prime 
consumers.  Within subprime financing, the Dealer Subprime business constituted the largest 
area of profitability for COAF.  COAF’s dealer and direct subprime businesses were deemed 
high risk by Capital One because the customers were at the lower end of the credit quality 
spectrum.   
 
20.    Beginning no later than October 2006, Capital One started to face higher, unexplained 
loan charge-offs and delinquencies than it had forecast in virtually all of its consumer lines of 
business, including the credit card business, COAF, Global Financial Services and U.K. division.  
COAF continued to experience significant higher actual losses than forecast, referred to 
internally as adverse or negative variances, for the next four consecutive months.  Moreover, 
COAF experienced negative variances across both dealer and direct lines of businesses and 
across both prime and subprime credit segments.  Given the magnitude and broad scale of the 
losses, COAF was concerned that it was experiencing a credit turn, which was understood within 
the company to mean a phenomenon where there is a general worsening in the credit 
environment in a way that drives credit losses for consumer lending businesses.    
        
21.    For the month of January 2007, COAF’s actual    losses, or charge -offs, were 20% higher 
than forecast, creating a significant loss problem for the business.  In a February 5, 2007 email, a 
top level COAF business official advised Schnall and other senior finance officials that “COAF 
credit results for January are quite concerning, continuing a trend that we’ve seen since October 
[2006]” and that the “underlying trends suggest that gap [the adverse variance] is widening over 
time.”  In a report entitled “COAF Credit Risk Performance Assessment” dated Feb   ruary 12, 
2007, COAF identified that, for the period of October 2006 through January 2007,  “losses 
exceeded forecasts by a sizable margin [averaging 10.4%] for the past 4 months , creating 
substantial risk to our earnings.”  Given the sustained negative var iances, CRM and COAF 
business officials explored the possibility that COAF was experiencing a credit turn and 
discussed that such a scenario could cause future losses of up to $100 million over the course of 
the year.          
 
22.    As early as the first quarter 2007, Schnall and other CRM officials learned that an 
adverse exogenous turn was causing higher delinquencies and significant credit deterioration in 
Capital One’s credit card business .  For examp le, CRM officials learned in March 2007 that an 
official from the credit card business had warned against assuming that the credit c ard business’ 
unexplained adverse variances were temporary  , describing such an assumption as “aggressive” 
and “underpredict[ing] losses.”  The credit card business official further s tated that, given the 
subprime mortgage problems in the industry and increase in subprime credit card delinquencies, 
there was a 70% chance that an “exogenous shift” was occurring.   
 
23.    Given the negative loss variances in COAF , CRM increased COAF’s allowance by $70 
million at the end of the first quarter.  This allowance build was intended to account, primarily,  
for internally driven, non-exogenous causes for higher charge -offs, such as risk expansion 
measures that the business had taken in extending credit to riskier applicants and worsening 
performance of certain loan portfolios from acquisitions.  There was a continued concern by a 
senior official in COAF, however, that a credit turn brought on by exogenous worsening  had 

                                               7 
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

likely caused the adverse variances, and this concern continued to play an important role in 
CRM’s credit risk assessments for COAF  .  In the second and third quarters of 2007, CRM 
identified exogenous worsening as a significant risk to its COAF loss forecasts but, as set forth 
below, did not adequately incorporate such worsening into COAF’s allowance    reserves.      
 
The Look Ahead Exogenous Uptick in the Second Quarter of 2007 
 
24.    In April, the first month in the second quarter, COAF again suffered an adverse forecast 
variance where its actual losses came in 11% higher than forecast.  At the same time, the Look 
Ahead tool reflected a 5%  uptick in the exogenous factor.    
 
25.    LaGassa discuss ed in a May 7, 2007 email with his loss forecast team that, given the 
large allowance build in the first quarter that was intended to cover los ses associated with 
COAF’s credit risk expansion, COAF should expect the gap be tween actual and forecast ed losses 
to narrow, not worse n.  CRM and COAF business officials also became concerned that the 
company was facing a credit turn, which would indicate a longer term loss problem  for the 
business.  LaGassa, for example, expressed concerns to his forecast team in the May 7, 2007 
email that the April forecast miss was broad-based, impacting all loan vintages and all COAF 
business units.  LaGassa further discussed that the pattern of losses were what he would expect 
to see in a credit turn. 
        
26.    By May, COAF’s actual losses had increased to 23% above forecast, while the Look 
Ahead exogenous was now 14% higher and considered to be a significant uptick.  The loss levels 
for certain COAF businesses were even worse, including, for example, the Direct Subprime 
business, which suffered  30% higher actual losses than forecast.   
        
27.    In response to the loss situation, LaGassa organized a “swat team” to diagnose the drivers 
of the losses.  From June 2- 11, 2007, LaGassa provided almost daily email updates to Capital 
One senior executives, including Schnall and senior COAF business officials, regarding the swat 
team’s loss assessment.  By June 11, LaGassa highlighted for these officials the following 
significant facts:  (a) the Look Ahead tool had shown a 14% exogenous uptick; (b) the largest 
driver of the losses stemmed from “environmental worsening” from the exogenous increase; and 
(c) the worsening was broad-based, occurring across all vintages and lines of businesses, 
including subprime and the better credit quality loans in the prime business, signaling an 
“exogenous shift.”   
 
Capital One’s Failure to Recognize Projected Exogenous Losses in COAF’s Second Quarter 
Loan Loss Expense  
 
28.    By the close of the second quarter loss forecast in mid-June of 2007, CRM had assessed 
that COAF’s allowance build would increase by approximately $72 million by year   -end if the  
current Look Ahead exogenous level was assumed to continue at that level for the 12-month 
period covered by the loss forecast.  In assessing how to incorporate the exogenous impact into 
the forecast and allowance recommendation, LaGassa proposed the following three options   to 
Schnall and others:  (a) none of the exogenous worsening would be factored into the forecast, 
resulting in no exogenous impact to the allowance recommendation; (b) factoring in only one -

                                               8 
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

third of the exogenous level , resulting in a $24 million allowance impact by year-end; or (c) 
factoring in the entire, current exogenous level, resulting in a $72 million allowance impact by 
year-end.   
 
29.    LaGassa informed his loss forecasting team, in an early June email, that the Installment 
Loan division, which (unlike COAF)   had a forward looking exogenous tool, expected a 10% 
increase in losses over the course of 2007 “due to macro-economic softening” which he believed 
was “another indicator that we [COAF] should be expecting some worsening [. . .].”  CRM was 
also aware that the credit card business, Capital One’s largest business, had already declared a 
credit turn based on the several months of unexplained worsening across all vintages and account 
ages.   
 
30.    As reflected in a June 15, 2007 email, a top-level COAF business  executive informed 
Schnall and other senior  Capital One business and finance  executives that mid-month June loss 
numbers were unfavorable to forecast .  Moreover, LaGassa informed a senior CRM official that 
based on the early June numbers, “our indications are that elevated unit loss levels are continuing 
to occur.”   
        
31.    In a June 19, 2007 email to Schnall, a senior CRM official and COAF business and 
finance executive, LaGassa expressed that the exogenous worsening was not included in 
COAF’s loan loss  forecast , and that, based on mid- month results, he was “not optimistic that we 
are going to suddenly see a slowing in losses” and assessed that COAF would continue to face 
adverse variances.   
        
32.    CRM ultimately   chose   to assume that no part of the elevated exogenous level generated 
by Look Ahead would continue, resulting in the under-accrual of Capital One’s loan loss reserve.  
This recommendation was made by LaGassa to the Chief Consumer Credit Officer and appr     oved 
by Schnall.  CRM’s decision, which departed from the observed exogenous from Look Ahead, 
gave insufficient weight to the evidence of exogenous-driven incurred losses as of the second 
quarter balance sheet date.  As a result, Capital One’s second quarter loan loss expense for 
COAF did not appropriately incorporate information necessary to determine  incurred losses  
under GAAP. 
 
33.    Had the full amount of the exogenous been incorporated by CRM, Capital One’s 
consolidated second quarter loan loss expense would have been $473 million, an increase of 18% 
over the $401 million that was reported.  Further, Capital One’s consolidated net income would 
have been reduced from $750 million to $699 million, a 7% decrease.  COAF’s loan loss 
expense would have increased from $182 million to $254 million, nearly a 40% increase, and 
COAF would have reported a net loss of $13 million rather than net income of $38 million for 
the second quarter.     
 
Capital One’s Recognition of Only One  -Third of Exogenous Losses in the Third Quarter 
 
34.    For the third quarter, COAF suffered  approximately 15-20% in higher actual losses than 
forecast, while the Look Ahead exogenous factor remained at  elevated levels for five straight 
months, including by 12.5% for most of the third quarter.  By the third quarter, CRM had 

                                               9 
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

assessed that COAF faced a potential allowance build  by year-end of $100 million, $85 million 
of which resulted from incorporating the full  exogenous levels  generated from Look Ahead.   
 
35.    In August, Schnall and others were informed that Capital One’s net asset charge-off from 
its company -wide loan portfolio was higher than forecast due, in large part, to loan charge-offs 
from exogenous worsening in COAF.  Also by August 2007, Capital One took steps internally to 
protect its business interests against the exogenous impact.  The Dealer Subprime business, 
COAF’s largest area of profits, for example, took a series of steps to mitigate its risks from the 
exogenous worsening, including tightening credit standards and underwriting policies “to match 
the recently observed exogenous level,” as reflected in emails from LaGassa to several Capital 
One senior executives, including Schnall.  Further, as reflected in an August 30, 2007 email, 
Schnall wanted to build COAF’s capital plan around “something somewhat worse than our 
expectations” given how close COAF was running to its capital targets.   
 
36.    In a September 10, 2007 email to a COAF finance official, LaGassa advised that “despite 
the huge [allowance] impact of just assuming exogenous stays flat, I don’t assess such an 
assumption to be ‘conservative’ – in fact, I think it is a bit optimistic.”  CRM, nonetheless, 
recommended that only one  -third of the current exogenous impact be incorporated for the 
allowance.   
        
37.    In both the September 10, 2007 email, as well as another email  on September 11 to a  
senior CRM official and a senior COAF business executive that was forwarded to Schnall, 
LaGassa recommended incorporating only one-third of the current exogenous impact into the 
loan loss expense while recognizing and noting  that the recommendation would create a high risk 
to the loss forecast.       
        
38.    As reflected in a September 28, 2007 document entitled “September Credit Outlook and 
Corporate Implications” that was sent to CRM officials as well as other top level finance and 
accounting executives, there was a “preponderance of evidence” across Capital One’s consumer 
businesses of credit worsening arising from delinquency and overall exogenous worsening.   
        
39.    By the end of the third quarter loss forecast, COAF’s business leaders identified as its “#1 
Top Risk” the deterioration in credit quality in subprime markets “due to negative movement in 
the economy (mortgage market) and a general credit turn,” as reflected in an August 29, 2007 
presentation.   
 
40.    A senior CRM official who re  ported to Schnall, recommended to Schnall that COAF, 
consistent with the credit card business, recognize the current level of exogenous worsening— an 
$85 million loan loss expense impact  by year-end.  Schnall, after discussions with that official, 
noted that he and the other official were in agreement to recognize “some, but not all, of the 
worsening in order to avoid oversteer,” but that they should highlight the remainder to 
management and the finance and accounting teams as a “high” internal financial risk.  Schnall 
should have taken steps to ensure that differing views and approaches to CRM’s exogenous 
treatment were communicated to Capital One’s allowance committee    , which was responsible for 
ensuring that COAF’s allowance complied with FAS 5. 
        

                                              10 
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

41.    CRM decid ed to incorporate one-third of the exogenous level, which translated into a $28 
million exogenous impact on the loss forecast and  allowance.  Because the decision gave 
insufficient weight to evidence of COAF’s exogenous-driven losses, the third quarter COAF 
provision for loan losses did not appropriately incorporate information necessary to determine 
incurred losses under GAAP .  The decision was also  not adequately  documented or  
communicated to the committee responsible for vetting allowance decisions.  
        
42.    CRM’s exogenous treatment was  questioned by    COAF loss forecasters.  These loss 
forecasters raised concerns within CRM  regarding the decision to  incorporate only one-third of 
the exogenous impact .  The loss forecasters believed that incorporating anything less than the 
full exogenous level would result in an insufficient allowance.  The loss forecasters, however, 
were not provided documentation or rationale supporting the exogenous decisions   .   
 
43.    Had Capital One incorporated the full exogenous worsening in CO    AF, its consolidated 
third quarter provision for loan los ses would have been $647 million, an increase of 9% over the 
$596 million that was actually reported.  Further, consolidated net loss for the quarter would 
have been $115 million, a 41% increase over the reported net loss of $82 million.  For COAF, 
the provision for loan losses would have been $296 million, which is 21% higher   than COAF’s  
$245 million reported loan loss expense for the quarter.  COAF’s  $4 million reported net loss 
would have been more than nine   times greater than reported, or approximately a net loss of $37 
million.6
           
 
Capital One’s Deficient Controls Over Loss-Forecasting in COAF’s Prime Business  
 
44.    In the third quarter of 2007, CRM conducted a loss forecasting analysis to determi ne the 
loss impact attributable to COAF’s Dealer Prime business, including losses arising from a failed 
“front-end pricing strategy” and a troubled portfolio known as “ONYX BAU” that COAF had 
acquired from another lender.  This process involved, among othe r things, running the Look 
Ahead tool and engaging in discussions with COAF’s Dealer Prime business team.  CRM 
determined through this process  that the loss impact arising from worsening portfolios in the 
Dealer Prime business represented the second larges t contributor of COAF’s  total incurred losses 
(following exogenous-driven losses).   
 
45.    CRM’s loan loss expense recommendation for the loss impact attributable to its 
worsening Dealer Prime portfolio, however, was at least $10 million less than what its initial loss 
forecasting analysis yielded.  Similar to the exogenous treatment, CRM did not adequately 
document why it did not fully incorporate its initial l oss forecasting analysis for COAF’s Dealer 
Prime business, which included the results of Look Ahead.  CRM    failed to maintain adequate 
documentation supporting its loan loss expense recommendation relating to COAF’s worsening 
Dealer Prime loan portfolio.  Further, the basis for CRM’s allowance recommendation relating to 
COAF’s Dealer Prime business, which was at least $10 million less than its  initial loss 

                                                 
6
  Had Capital One appropriately incorporated exogenous -driven losses in the second quarter, the magnitude of the 
understatement of the Company’s third quarter financial results would have been proportionally less.  

                                               11 
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

forecasting analysis, was not communicated to Capital One’s Allowance Advisory Committee, 
which is responsible for reviewing CRM’ s allowance recommendations   .    
 
Capital One’s Internal Control Failures Ov er COAF’s Allowance-setting Process 
 
46.    Capital One failed to incorporate sufficient  amounts of COAF’s exogenous -driven losses 
into the second and third quarter loss forecast s for COAF and, in turn, its loan loss expense, as a 
result of its deficient internal controls over the COAF allowance-setting process.  Schnall and 
LaGassa failed to ensure that CRM follow ed Capital One’s policies and procedures governing 
the exogenous treatment, document ed the reasons  and rationale for excluding the exogenous 
impact on COAF’s loan loss expense  , and address ed prior audit concerns.  Schnall failed to 
ensure that CRM’s allowance decisions and their rationale related to the COAF exogenous   
treatment were adequately communicated to Capital One’s accounting group or the Allowan   ce 
Advisory Committee, Capital One’s committee responsible for vetting allowance decisions  .  
Further, Capital One’s accounting group failed to ensure that the COAF provision for loan losses 
for the second and third quarters of 2007 was properly supported, documented and  determined  in 
accordance with accounting requirements.    
 
Capital One’s Failure to Follow Policies and Procedures Regarding Exogenous Forecasting   
 
47.    Capital One’s treatment of the exogenous factor in the second and third quarter s of 2007 
was inconsistent with its policies and procedures.  CRM’s COAF exogenous policy   was to 
incorporate the current Look Ahead exogenous levels into COAF’s loss forecast and, in turn, the 
provision for loan losses, unless there was “compelling data” justifying a departure from its 
policies. 
 
48.      CRM’s COAF l   oss forecasting policies from October 2005 through August 2007 state d 
that the exogenous factor, a “key element” in loss forecasting, “is estimated based on recent 
industry [exogenous] factor performance and the application of judgment ” but “[o]ur general 
bias is to project future industry factor at current observed levels unless there is compelling data 
to do otherwise.”   
 
Capital One’s Failure to Adequately Address Prior Internal Audit Concerns Regarding COAF’s 
Loss Forecasting 
 
49.    By the second quarter of 2007, Capital One was aware of several risks to COAF’s 
allowance process from its exogenous forecasting that were identified by Internal Audit.   
 
50.    In 2005, an Internal Audit report that was sent to Schnall found that, despite the ability of 
the exogenous factor to drive significant swings in loss assessments, CRM did not have a reliable 
method to forecast it in COAF.  In responding to the finding, CRM acknowledged that its current 
exogenous methodology was not “very scientific and also not reliable.”   
 
51.    In 2006, another Internal Audit review found that CRM had “no guard rail process” in 
place governing when the COAF exogenous factor should be changed.  CRM agreed with the 
audit finding and tasked COAF’s then Director of Loss Forecasting with the responsibility of 

                                              12 
 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

developing a guard rail process for governing how the exogenous factor would be incorporated 
into the forecast.   
        
52.    In the first quarter of 2007, the COAF Director of Loss Forecasting proposed a policy, 
stating that “future exogenous will be straight-lined based on the last data point or average of the 
last 3 data points, if the data is [sic] too volatile.”  The concept of “straight-lining” was a 
common term of art in the company, which meant that the last data point, or current exogenous 
level, in a model would be carried forward for purposes of loss forecasting and, in turn, setting 
the allowance.  The “guard rails” policy further noted that if an exception to this rule was 
applied, the exogenous treatment would be documented.     
        
53.    The guard rails policy was sent to officials of COAF and to LaGassa , who were informed 
that the new policy “closed out” the audit concern over exogenous forecasting.   
        
54.    CRM, in setting the COAF loan loss expense   , failed to follow the “guard rails” policy by 
not “straight-lining” the current exogenous—which would have incorporated the full 
worsening—or documenting the rationale for why it deviated from the policy.    
        
55.    By the third quarter of 2007, Capital One’s Internal Audit group identified in its audit 
planning materials that there was a “significant risk” that COAF gave “insufficient consideration 
of external factors (credit environment, economy, legislation, etc.)” in determining its allowance.  
This risk was identified  by  Internal Audit as “high” in terms of impacting allowance decisions.   
        
56.    In addition, during the course of performing its procedures, Internal Audit expressed 
concerns internally  regarding CRM’s exogenous treatment for COAF in both the second and 
third quarters of 2007.  Internal Audit sought support for COAF’s exogenous treatment from  
COAF’s loss forecasters.  While the loss forecasters did not provide a complete  explanation of 
why the full exogenous  was not included in the allowance, based on the information that was 
provided, Internal Audit nonetheless signed off on the COAF allowance  without raising any 
issues or findings for both the second and third quarters. 
 
Capital One’s Failure to Adequately Document Support for COAF’s Allowance       
 
57.    The exogenous treatment was an important assumption made for purposes of the loss 
forecasts upon which the calculation of COAF’s loan loss expense was based.  CRM was 
responsible for ensuring that such important assumptions were adequately documented in Capital 
One’s books and records.  During the second and third quarters of 2007, despite requirements in 
policies and procedures, several internal directives, Commission expectations detailed in FR-28, 
and subsequently under SAB 102, regarding the need to document the    rational e supporting 
assumptions used, CRM failed to ensure that the exogenous assumptions made for purposes of 
the COAF loss forecast and allowance recommendation were adequately documented. 
 
58.    In 2006, there were several memos that were sent to CRM forecasters and CRM officials, 
including Schnall, highlighting the need for CRM to formalize the exogenous documentation 
process.  One such memo stated that the exogenous sign- off “is becoming increasingly 
important” because “changes in exogenous outlook drive a significant portion of the loss forecast 

                                              13 
 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

. . . . therefore documenting our exogenous assumptions becomes critical.”  Another memo dated 
August 8, 2006, acknowledged that the need to have documentation and governance surrounding 
exogenous assumptions was critical because “[a]s we get closer to a potential credit turn, there is 
increasing scrutiny inside and outside of CRM on our economic assumptions.”  The August 
memo further recognized that “the use of [exogenous] assumptions in our ALLL [allowance] 
calculation requires explicit documentation and sign-off to satisfy Sarbanes-Oxley certification 
requirements.”   
 
59.    In the third quarter of 2007, Schnall, a senior finance executive and other credit officials 
were sent a report from a CRM director level employee, highlighting the importance of 
documenting exogenous assumptions in light of the credit worsening experienced throughout the 
company.  The report explicitly stated that “[w]e should be explicit about all assumptions in the 
outlook, particularly when they differ from current trends, consensus view or historical pattern.”   
 
Failure to Adequately Communicate   Key Assumptions and Judgments Regarding COAF’s 
Exogenous Treatment to the Allowance Advisory Committee     
 
60.    One of CRM’s key functions was to provide a recommendation  concerning the provision 
for loan losses for each consumer lending business and the assumptions supporting them, on a 
quarterly basis, to the Allowance Advisory Committee (“allowance committee”), which  
functioned as an advisory committee to Capital One’s Chief Financial Officer for purposes of 
critically assessing CRM’s allowance recommendations.  The allowance committee    was  
comprised of top-level executives with accounting expertise, such as the Controller, Assistant 
Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Capital One, who we re responsible for ensuring that 
Capital One’s allowance was compliant with GAAP   .   
 
61.    Schnall, as Capital One’s Chief Risk Officer, was a key member of the committee, along 
with another newly -appointed senior CRM official, and was ultimately responsible for ensuring 
that CRM’s  key  allowance- related judgments and assumptions were adequately communicated to 
the allowance committee.   
        
62.    During the second and third quarters of 2007, the allowance committee process was one 
of Capital One’s primary internal controls   over the allowance- setting function and for ensuring  
GAAP compliance of CRM’s allowance-related decisions.  As described by an Internal Audit 
report, the company’s allowance policies “assign  approval authority for the [allowance]  
methodologies . . . to the Allowance Advisory Committee .”  The committee’s oversight over the 
COAF allowance determination   was particularly critical, given that Capital One’s accounting 
group did not otherwise analyze support for CRM’s allowance recommendations for COAF or 
have insight into COAF’s loss forecasting function.   
        
63.    Capital One’s accounting group relied on CRM and Schnall to provide information 
concerning the judgments underlying the allowance recom mendations during allowance 
committee meetings .  Schnall, however, did not take adequate steps to ensure that CRM’s 
exogenous treatment for COAF and supporting rationale in the second and third quarters of 2007 
were adequately communicated to the allowance  committee or documented in materials provided 
to the committee.    

                                              14 
 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

 
64.    Schnall also failed to ensure that sufficient information was included in the written 
materials provided to the allowance committee.   For example, in connection with an allowance 
committee meeting that took place on September 28, 2007, the presentation materials reflected 
that COAF’s allowance impact from recognizing a “steady state” (current exogenous levels) was 
$23 million, instead of the full $85 million impact  the Look Ahead exogenous factor reflected.  
The presentation materials also inaccurately reflected a $23 million allowance impact from a 
“base risk increase” scenario, which analyzes exogenous worsening beyond current levels, even 
though the allowance impact from the Look Ahead exogenous factor shoul   d have reflected an 
amount higher than $85 million. 
 
Failure of Capital One’s Accounting Group to Obtain Support for CRM’s Exogenous Treatment 
 
65.    Capital One’s allowance policy required that the Director of Loan Accounting “review 
the monthly [allowance] calculations and supporting documentation” for each of the business 
divisions, including COAF.  With regard to the COAF allowance, however, this policy was not 
followed in the second and third quarters of 2007, and the role   of Capital One’s accounting 
group was limited to recording the journal entry to post the allowance and performing balance 
sheet reconciliations, as opposed to performing a detailed validation or verification of the 
allowance calculations.   
        
66.    Because Capital One failed to implement a system for Capital One’s accounting group to 
monitor the COAF loss forecast, CRM loss forecasters were not required to—and did not   —
provide Accounting with support for judgments that were made in the forecast, including the 
exogenous assumptions.   
 
Capital One’s On-Top Adjustments to the COAF Loss Forecast 
 
67.    During the second and third quarters of 2007, Capital One did not employ its standard 
“grounds-up” loss forecasting practice for COAF and, instead, carried out the loss forecast 
through a series of on-top adjustments.   
 
68.    When CRM ran its loss forecasting tool in its entirety, it generated a “grounds-up” 
forecast that used the loss analysis results as the basis for a quarterly loss forecast.  In the second 
and third quarters, however, LaGassa, with the knowledge of S chnall, the corporate accounting 
group and internal audit, did not run Look Ahead to generate a grounds-up forecast.   
        
69.    During these quarters, LaGassa was implementing a redesign of the loss forecasting 
process.  Because his team was working on the redesign, LaGassa instructed the  team to start 
with the previous quarter’s forecast and then apply “on-top” adjustments to arrive at a new 
forecast.  The on-top adjustments were made on the basis of CRM’s subjective vi ews on changes 
in trends from the prior quarter’s forecast.  During this period, CRM ran Look Ahead only for 
purposes of monitoring COAF’s exogenous, while choosing not to produc    e a full loss forecast 
using Look Ahead loss data, such as maturation, vintage and seasonality.   While the practice of 
making on-top adjustments is not per se                       improper, Capital One was required to ensure that 
proper controls surrounding the on-top adjustments were in place, given the adverse credit 

                                              15 
 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

deterioration experienced by COAF   and the inherent risks stemming from making on- top 
adjustments.  The company, however, failed to ensure that the on-top adjustments were properly 
supported and documented.    
        
70.    By the third quarter, CRM was aware of certain deficiencies and risks surrounding a 
forecast based on on-top adjustments, including at least one loss forecaster’s concerns that a 
manually adjusted forecast would lead to a less accurate forecast and another concern by a senior 
CRM official who expressed frustration over “mak  ing an exogenous credit assumption for loss 
forecasting and provision build in Q3, in the absence of a full bottoms-up forecast.”  CRM, 
nonetheless, chose to carry out yet another on- top adjusted forecast in the third quarter using the 
understated second quarter’s forecast as the foundation.   
 
                                        VIOLATIONS 
 
71.    Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-13 thereunder require that every issuer 
of a security registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act file with the Commission 
information, documents and annual and quarterly reports as the Commission may require, and, 
pursuant to Rule 12b-20 of the Exchange Act, mandate that periodic reports contain such further 
material information as may be necessary to make the required statements not misleading. 
 
72.    Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder require reporting 
companies to make and keep books, records and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately 
and fairly reflect their transactions and dispositions of their assets, and prohibit any person from, 
directly or indirectly, falsifying or causing to be falsified, any book, record or account subject to 
Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act. 
        
73.    Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires all reporting companies to devise and 
maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance 
with GAAP. 
        
74.    As a result of the conduct described above, Capital One violated Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-13 thereunder because the provision for loan and lease 
losses, which excluded exogenous  -driven losses for COAF, was materially understated, and 
income before taxes was materially overstated, and, thus, the Company filed inaccurate periodic 
reports with the Commission for the quarters ended June 30, 2007 and September 30, 2007.    
 
75.    As a result of the conduct described above, Capital One violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of 
the Exchange Act because it did not keep books, records or accounts that accurately reflected its 
loan loss expense for COAF.    
        
76.    As a result of the conduct described above, Capital One violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of 
the Exchange Act because it failed to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting 
controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that its loan loss expense is recorded as 
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. 
        

                                               16 
 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

77.    As a result of the conduct described above, Schnall and LaGassa   caused Capital One’s 
violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-13 
thereunder.  As a result of that same conduct, Schnall and LaGassa violated Rule 13b2- 1 under 
the Exchange Act in that they indirectly caused Capital One’s violation of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of 
the Exchange Act. 
 
                                               IV. 
        
78.    In determining to accept Capital One’s Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts 
undertaken by Capital One.  Among other things, Capital One redesigned COAF CRM’s loss 
forecasting process starting in the fourth quarter of 2007, established an allowance 
subcommittee, which meets quarterly to review the preliminary quarterly allowance calculations 
for the company’s consumer businesses, appointed key personnel in the accounting group to 
review key assumptions underlying the allowance and implemented additional controls design    ed 
to prevent similar deficiencies going forward, including a formal process for documenting the 
exogenous treatment in allowance determinations. 
        
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.      Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Capital One cease and desist from 
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) 
and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-13 thereunder. 
        
       B.      Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Schnall and LaGassa cease and 
desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-13 and 13b2-1 thereunder. 
 
       C. Respondent Capital One shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil 
money penalty in the amount of $3,500,000 to the United States Treasury                                            .  If timely payment is 
not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717.  Payment must be made in 
one of the following ways:    
 
       (1) Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will 
       provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  7
                                                                           
       (2) Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through the 
       SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm    ; or  

                                                 
7
  The minimum threshold for transmission of payment electronically is $50,000.00 as of April 1, 2012. This 
threshold will be increased to $1,000,000 by December 31, 2012. For amounts below the threshold, respondents 
must make payments pursuant to option (2) or (3)  above.  
 

                                               17 
 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

       (3) Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States postal 
       money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and hand-
       delivered or mailed to:  
 
              Enterprise Services Center 
              Accounts Receivable Branch 
              HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
              6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
              Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Capital One Financial Corp. as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these 
proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Gerald W. 
Hodgkins, Associate Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 
100 F St., NE, Washington, DC 20549.   
               
       D.  Respondent Schnall shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money 
penalty in the amount of $85,000 to the United States Treasury                              .  If timely payment is not made, 
additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717.  Payment must be made in one of the 
following ways:   
 
       (1) Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will 
       provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request; 8
                                                                          
       (2) Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through the 
       SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm   ; or  
       (3) Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States postal 
       money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and hand-
       delivered or mailed to:  
 
              Enterprise Services Center 
              Accounts Receivable Branch 
              HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
              6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
              Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Peter A. Schnall as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; 
a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Gerald W. Hodgkins, 
Associate Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., 
NE, Washington, DC 20549.   
                                                 
8
  The minimum threshold for transmission of payment electronically is $50,000.00 as of April 1, 2012. This 
threshold will be increased to $1,000,000 by December 31, 2012. For amounts below the threshold, respondents 
must make payments pursuant to option (2) or (3) above.  
 

                                               18 
 
---------------------Page 19---------------------

         
 
       E.      Respondent LaGassa shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil 
money penalty in the amount of $50,000 to the United States Treasury                                       .  If timely payment is not 
made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717.  Payment must be made in one 
of the following ways:    
 
       (1) Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will 
       provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;   9
                                                                            
       (2) Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through the 
       SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm    ; or  
       (3) Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States postal 
       money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and hand-
       delivered or mailed to:  
 
               Enterprise Services Center 
               Accounts Receivable Branch 
               HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
               6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
               Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
David A. LaGassa as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these 
proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Gerald W. 
Hodgkins, Associate Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 
100 F St., NE, Washington, DC 20549.   
 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
                                                     Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                     Secretary 
 
  
 
   
        

                                                 
9
  The minimum threshold for transmission of payment electronically is $50,000.00 as of April 1, 2012. This 
threshold will be increased to $1,000,000 by December 31, 2012. For amounts below the threshold, respondents 
must make payments pursuant to option (2) or (3) above.  
 

                                                19 
 
