---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                           
                         UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                     Before the
  
                 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  64123 / March 24, 2011 
  
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3255 / March 24, 2011 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14305  
 
_____________________________ 
                                           : 
In the Matter of                 :   ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
                                 :   PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO SECTION 
                                 :  21C OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
                                 :  OF 1934, MAKING FINDINGS, IMPOSING 
BALL CORPORATION,                :   A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER AND A  
                                 :   CIVIL MONEY PENALTY  
Respondent.                      : 
____________________________ : 
                                                                                                                                                                               
                                 
 
                                         I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate 
that cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Ball Corporation 
(“Ball,” “the Company,” or “Respondent”). 
 
                                         II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted 
an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. 
Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on  
behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting 
or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over 
Respondent and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to 
Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a 
Cease-and-Desist Order and a Civil Money Penalty (“Order”), as set forth below. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                         

        
        
        
        
                                              III.  
                                                 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
        
                                          Summary  
                                                 
       1.     Ball Corporation, an Indiana corporation based in Broomfield Colorado, is 
a manufacturer of metal packaging for beverages, foods and household products.  From 
July 2006 through October 2007, Ball, through its Argentine subsidiary Formametal, 
S.A., offered and paid at least ten bribes, totaling at least $106,749, to employees of the 
Argentine government to secure the importation of prohibited used machinery and the 
exportation of raw materials at reduced tariffs.  
        
       2.     Although certain accounting personnel at Ball learned soon after Ball 
acquired Formametal in March 2006 that Formametal employees may have made 
questionable payments and caused other compliance problems before the acquisition, the 
Company failed to take sufficient action to ensure that such activities did not recur at 
Formametal after Ball took control of the Argentine company.  Within months of Ball’s 
acquisition of Formametal, two Formametal executives—the then-Formametal President 
and then-Formametal Vice President of Institutional Affairs (hereinafter the “President” 
and “Vice President of Institutional Affairs,” respectively)—authorized improper 
payments to Argentine officials.  The true nature of the payments was mischaracterized 
as ordinary business expenses on Formametal’s books and records and went undetected 
for over a year. 
                                         Respondent  
                                                 
       3.     In addition to supplying metal cans to food, beverage, and household 
products customers, Ball Corporation  provides aerospace and other technological services 
to commercial and governmental customers.  The Company employs approximately 
14,000 people in more than ninety locations worldwide.  Its stock is registered pursuant 
to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange 
under the ticker symbol BLL.  Ball’s Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 
2009, reported consolidated net income of $387.9 million on revenue of $7.34 billion.   
Ball acquired Argentine company Formametal, S.A., on March 27, 2006, as part of an 
acquisition of a larger U.S. aerosol container business.  Formametal, a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of Ball, manufactures aerosol cans.  Formametal’s financial results are 
reported on a consolidated basis in Ball’s financial statements.   
 

                                           2 

 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                          

                                         Facts  
                                             
A. 	   Formametal Made or Offered Unlawful Payments to Officials of the 
       Argentine Government   
 
       4.     In June 2006, approximately three months after Ball acquired Formametal, 
a financial analyst in the general accounting group for Ball’s Metal Food and Household 
Packaging Products Division made a routine visit to the newly acquired subsidiary to 
gather information about its operations.  During the course of his visit, the analyst 
discovered that Formametal’s employees may have made questionable payments and 
caused other compliance problems in the past.  Concerned that such activity could recur 
at Formametal in the future, the analyst included his findings in a report (“the 
Formametal Report”) that he submitted to the director of accounting of Ball’s Metal Food 
and Household Packaging Products Division.  The Formametal Report highlighted prior 
infractions by Formametal, including questionable customs fees, used machinery being 
declared new to circumvent customs regulations, other dishonest customs declarations, 
and the destruction of documents.  Although Ball had demoted Formametal’s incumbent 
President and replaced the Chief Financial Officer after acquiring the subsidiary in March 
2006, when the Formametal Report came to the attention of several senior executives in 
Ball’s Metal Food and Household Packaging Products Division, Ball’s actions were not 
sufficient to prevent future infractions by Formametal executives.  
        
       5.     In the period between July 2006 and October 2007, and following the 
analyst’s discoveries, Formametal’s senior officers authorized at least ten unlawful 
payments totaling approximately $106,749 to Argentine government officials.  Some  
payments were specifically authorized by Formametal’s President, while in other 
instances, he appeared to have been aware that the unlawful payments were occurring and 
acquiesced to them.  In some instances, the President learned about the opportunity to 
make a bribe from the Vice President of Institutional Affairs, who would then make the 
arrangements for the bribe without providing details to the President.  These payments 
were disguised to appear as legitimate business expenses in Formametal’s books and 
records and included in Ball’s consolidated financial results reported for fiscal year 2006 
and the first three quarters of 2007.   These improper payments are explained below.                                                                                 
         
B. 	   Equipment Import 
        
       6.     Formametal paid bribes totaling over $100,000 in 2006 and 2007 to secure 
the importation of equipment for use in its manufacturing process.  Formametal’s 
President authorized at least two of these payments.  In most cases, the bribes were paid 
to induce government customs officials to circumvent Argentine laws prohibiting the 
importation of used equipment and parts.  The bribes often appeared on invoices from a 
non-governmental customs agent for Formametal.  The payments were invoiced as 
separate line items described inaccurately as “fees for customs assistance,” “customs 
advisory services,” “verification charge,” or simply “fees,” were invoiced in addition to 
other customs-related fees, and were sometimes in rounded peso amounts.  To further 
obscure that the payments were really bribes, Formametal posted the payments 

                                            3 

 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                                                                          

inaccurately identified as “customs advice” or “professional fees” to an “Other Expenses” 
account or in some instances to an account named for the related equipment.  
        
C.     Copper Scrap Export Waiver 
        
       7.     Formametal paid a bribe that its President authorized in October 2007 in 
an attempt to bypass high government duties imposed on copper scrap exports.  These 
duties, which were generally 40 percent of the value of the copper, were imposed by 
Argentina in an effort to discourage export sales of domestically produced copper and 
copper scraps.  The President estimated the additional profit from exporting this copper 
scrap with the export duty waivers versus selling it inside Argentina would be 
approximately $1.5 million annually.    
        
       8.     For six months prior to August 2007, Formametal unsuccessfully sought 
to gain government approval to export the scrap without the customarily high duties.  
After giving up on obtaining the waiver legitimately, on October 18, 2007, Formametal  
disbursed $4,821, representing the first of five bribe installments authorized by its 
President to obtain an export duty waiver.  The payment was funneled through 
Formametal’s third party customs agent.  Obscuring that the transaction was a bribe, 
Formametal inaccurately recorded the payment as “Advice fees for temporary 
merchandise exported” in an “Other Expenses” account.  Although the President believed 
that the payments were requested by a customs official and would result in a copper scrap 
export duty waiver, no copper scrap export shipments were made pursuant to the 
improper payment.   
        
D.     Ball Accountants Learn About One Bribe 
 
       9.     As early as February 2007, two accountants in Ball’s Metal Food and 
Household Packaging Products Division learned about one of the bribes paid by 
Formametal to import machinery for use in its manufacturing process.  Formametal’s 
Vice President of Institutional Affairs, an Argentine national, who was formerly president 
and owner of the subsidiary, had paid the bribe on behalf of Formametal out of his own 
funds and received reimbursement from Formametal in the form of a company car.  
Formametal initially booked the transfer of the car as an interest expense.  After being 
pressed for details about the transaction, Formametal’s President revealed to the two Ball 
accountants that the car was reimbursement for a bribe paid by the Vice President of 
Institutional Affairs.  Although Formametal subsequently changed the accounting to 
record the transfer of the car as a miscellaneous expense, it still failed to accurately 
describe the “transfer” as a reimbursement for an illegal payment made to Argentine 
customs officials.  
        

                                           4 

 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                                                                          

E.     Ball Failed to Establish Sufficient Internal Accounting Controls  
 
       10.    Ball’s and Formametal’s weak internal controls, which included importing 
equipment into Argentina in 2006 and 2007 without appropriate invoices and 
documentation, made it difficult to detect that the subsidiary was repeatedly violating 
Argentine law through the payment of bribes.  Ball’s weak internal controls also factored 
into the Company’s failure to prevent further abuses at Formametal, after Ball 
accountants learned of a bribe paid by Formametal to import machinery for use in its 
manufacturing process.  As a result, Formametal continued to make improper payments 
during 2007. 
        
       11.    Further, Ball lacked sufficient internal controls to bring about effective 
changes after information available to Ball’s executives indicated anti-bribery 
compliance problems at Formametal.  For example, key personnel responsible for dealing 
with customs officials remained at Formametal, even though external due diligence 
performed on Formametal suggested that Formametal officials may have previously 
authorized questionable payments.   
        
                                     Legal Analysis  
 
       12.    The FCPA, enacted in 1977, added Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(A) to 
require public companies to make and keep books, records, and accounts, which, in 
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the 
assets of the issuer.  It also added Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(B) to require such 
companies to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to  
provide reasonable assurances that transactions: (i) are executed in accordance with 
management’s general or specific authorization; and (ii) are recorded as necessary to 
permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with  generally accepted 
accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such statements, and to maintain 
accountability for assets.  15 U.S.C.  §§ 78m(b)(2)(A) and 78m(b)(2)(B).   
 
       13.    As detailed above, Formametal failed to properly record illegal payments 
and transactions when it repeatedly paid bribes disguised as customs assistance on 
invoices from its customs agent.  In addition, Formametal used a customs agent as an 
intermediary to obscure the source and destination of funds, and it created false or 
misleading journal entries to facilitate the illegal importation of used machinery into 
Argentina.  Ultimately, the improper payments, as well as the book value of the car given 
as reimbursement for a bribe paid by Formametal’s Vice President of Institutional Affairs 
were mischaracterized as ordinary business expenses on Formametal’s books and 
records.  Because Formametal’s financial statements were consolidated with those of 
Ball, Ball failed to keep accurate books and records in violation of Exchange Act Section 
13(b)(2)(A).  
        
       14.    In violation of Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(B), Ball also failed to 
devise and maintain an effective system of internal controls to prevent and detect 
violations of the FCPA at Formametal, even after senior Ball officers were on notice in 

                                            5 

 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                                                                                         

mid-2006 that in the past Ball’s subsidiary’s employees had made questionable payments 
and caused other compliance problems. 
 
                       Ball’s Remedial Efforts and Cooperation  
                                             
       15.    In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts  
promptly undertaken by Respondent, Respondent’s voluntary disclosure of these matters to 
the Commission, and cooperation afforded the Commission staff. 
 
                                              IV. 
        
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the  
sanctions agreed to in Respondent Ball’s Offer.   
        
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
        
       (A)	     Pursuant to Section 21C  of the Exchange Act, Respondent Ball cease and 
              desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of  
              Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act;  
        
       (B)	     Respondent shall, within fifteen (15) days of the entry of this Order, pay 
              the civil penalty of $300,000 to the United States Treasury.  If timely 
              payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 
              3717.  Such payment shall be: (A) made by wire transfer, United States 
              postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check or bank money 
              order; (B) made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission; (C) 
              hand-delivered or mailed to the Office of Financial Management, 
              Securities and Exchange Commission, Operations Center, 6432 General 
              Green Way, Stop 0-3, Alexandria, VA 22312; and (D) submitted under 
              cover letter that identifies Ball Corporation as a Respondent in these 
              proceedings, the file number of these proceedings, a copy of which cover 
              letter and money order or check shall be sent to Gerald W. Hodgkins, 
              Associate Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange 
              Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549-6010.  
 
       (C)	     Respondent acknowledges that the Commission is not imposing a civil 
              penalty in excess of $300,000 based upon its cooperation in a Commission 
              investigation and related enforcement action.  If at any time following the 
              entry of the Order, the Division of Enforcement (“Division”) obtains 
              information indicating that Respondent knowingly provided materially 
              false or misleading information or materials to the Commission or in a 
              related proceeding, the Division may, at its sole discretion and without 
              prior notice to the Respondent, petition the Commission to reopen this 
              matter and seek an order directing that the Respondent pay an additional 
              civil penalty.  Respondent may not, by way of defense to any resulting 

                                           6 

 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                                                                                              

 
                administrative proceeding:  (1) contest the findings in the Order; or (2) 
               assert any defense to liability or remedy, including, but not limited to, any 
               statute of limitations defense.    
        
        
       By the Commission. 
        
                                               
                                               
                                              Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                              Secretary 

                                             7 

 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

                                                                                              

                                        Service List  
 
       Rule 141 of the Commission's Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or 
another duly authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order              
Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order and a Civil 
Money Penalty ("Order"), on the Respondent and its legal agent.        
 
       The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons 
entitled to notice:  
 
Honorable Brenda P. Murray 
                             
Chief Administrative Law Judge 
                      
Securities and Exchange Commission 
           
100 F Street, N.E. 

Washington, DC 20549-2557 
                    
 
Eugene H. Bull, Esq. 
                             
Securities and Exchange Commission  
          
100 F Street, N.E. 

Washington, DC 20549-6010A 
               
  
Ball Corporation 

Attn:  Charles E. Baker, Vice President and Asst. Corporate Secretary
  
c/o Charles F. Smith, Esq 

Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP 

155 North Wacker Drive 

Chicago, IL 60606-1720 
          
 
 Charles F. Smith, Esq 

Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP 

155 North Wacker Drive 

Chicago, IL 60606-1720 
                      
(Counsel for Ball Corporation) 

 
                                               

                                              8 

 
