---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                  UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                                   before the 

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

                                                           
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  60076 / June 9, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2988 / June 9, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13510 
_____________________________________ 
                                                            : 
                                                            :
                                                            :       ORDER INSTITUTING                                     
         In the Matter of                                   :       ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                            :       PROCEEDINGS                             PURSUANT TO
  RICHARD MILLER (CPA), :                                           RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                            :       COMMISSION’S                   RULES  OF
          Respondent.                                       :       PRACTICE, MAKING 
                                                            :       FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                                            :       REMEDIAL           SANCTIONS 
_____________________________________: 
 
                                                         I. 
 
         The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate 
and in the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, 
instituted against Richard Miller (“Respondent” or “Miller”) pursuant to Rule 
102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.                1 
                                                                     
 
                                                         II. 
                                                       
         In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted 
an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  
Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on  
behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting 
or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’                   s jurisdiction over him and 
the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III, 
                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  
  
         The Commission, with due regard to the public inte       rest and without preliminary hearing, may, by  
order,…suspend from appearing or practicing before it any….accountant…who has been by                      
name…permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in                                                            
an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision                       
of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations thereunder.   
---------------------Page 2---------------------

paragraph 3, below, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order 
Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set 
forth below. 
 
                                           III. 
                                             
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
       1.      Miller, age 52, is and has been a certified public accountant 
licensed to practice in the State of Ohio.  He served as Chief Financial Officer of 
Cardinal Health, Inc. (“Cardinal”) from 1998 until his resignation in July 2004. 
          
       2.      Cardinal was, at all relevant times, an Ohio corporation with its principal  
place of business in Dublin, Ohio.  Cardinal was, and continues to be, engaged in the 
business of developing and distributing health care and pharmaceutical products and 
services.  At all relevant times, Cardinal’s common stock was registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Exchange Act”), and traded on the New York Stock Exchange.  
 
       3.      On May 27, 2009, the Commission filed a complaint against Miller in  
SEC v. Richard Miller, et al., Civil Action No. 09-CV-4945, in the United States District 
Court for the Southern District of New York.  On May 29, 2009, the court entered an 
order permanently enjoining Miller, by consent, from future violations of Section 17(a) of 
the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the 
Exchange Act, and Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1, 13b2-2, and 13a-14 thereunder, and aiding and 
abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act 
and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder.  Miller was also ordered to pay 
a $120,000 civil money penalty.   
        
       4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that, at  
different times from at least September 2000 through at least March 2004, Miller and  
other former senior accounting and finance officers of Cardinal engaged in a fraudulent 
earnings and revenue management scheme  to inflate Cardinal’s publicly reported 
operating revenue, earnings and growth trends.  The Complaint alleged that Miller 
engaged in a number of improper accounting and disclosure practices that materially 
misrepresented Cardinal’s publicly reported revenue, earnings, and growth trends.  These 
practices included, among other things:  misclassifying bulk sales as operating revenue to 
overstate reported operating revenue; overstating quarterly earnings by selectively 
accelerating the recognition of cash discount income; improperly establishing and/or  
using a general reserve account and directing or approving the adjustment of various 
reserve accounts to meet earnings projections in a departure from generally accepted 
accounting principles (“GAAP”); and improperly classifying expected litigation 
settlement proceeds to inflate earnings, in a further departure from GAAP.  In addition, 
the Complaint alleged that Miller signed at least one materially false and misleading 
management representation letter to Cardinal’s external auditor and signed certifications 

                                            2
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

falsely certifying the accuracy of the financial statements and disclosures in Cardinal’s 
periodic filings.     
         
       On October 26, 2004, as described in the Complaint, Cardinal restated its financial 
results for fiscal years 2000 to  2003 and for the first  three quarters of fiscal year 2004.  In its 
restatement, Cardinal disclosed, among other things, that it had improperly classified $1.2 
billion of bulk revenue as operating revenue and that Cardinal had an undisclosed practice of 
accelerating payment of vendor invoices at the end of certain reporting periods, which 
improved operating results for those periods.  The restatement (as subsequently corrected) 
also reduced Cardinal’s net earnings by a cumulative total of $65.9 million, due to 
Cardinal’s adjustments to reserves and other  accruals, which were restated as a result of 
misapplications of GAAP, other errors or an absence of substantiation.  In addition, Cardinal 
reversed, reclassified and recognized in a later period the $22 million of expected litigation 
settlement proceeds it had previously recognized during the second quarter of fiscal year 
2001 and the first quarter of fiscal year 2002.   
        
                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public  
interest to accept Respondent Miller’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately that: 
 
       A.      Miller is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission  
as an accountant. 
 
       B.      After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that  
the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention:   
Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as: 
 
               1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation  
or review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the 
Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work 
in his practice before the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit 
committee of the public company for which he works or in some other acceptable 
manner, as long as he practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the  
Commission that: 
  
                        (a)      Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he  
is associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board 
(“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration 
continues to be effective; 
 

                                            3
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                          (b)      Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with 
which he is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not 
identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality 
control system that would indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate 
supervision; 
 
                          (c)      Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the  
Board, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the 
Board (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                          (d)      Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as  
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not 
limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner 
reviews and quality control standards. 
 
        C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume   
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards 
of accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional 
conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
        By the Commission.   
 
       Elizabeth M. Murphy 
       Secretary                                                       
         
          

                                               4
 
