---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                 STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                           the 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 62865 / September 8, 2010 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3181 / September 8, 2010 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14037 
 
                                                  
                                                  
In the Matter of                                 ORDER INSTITUTING  
                                                 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
       KEVIN J. SCHOTT,  CPA,                     PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                  COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
Respondent.                                       MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                                  REMEDIAL SANCTIONS  
 
                                                 
                                               I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Kevin J. 
Schott (“Respondent” or “Schott”) pursuant to Section Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1 
                  
                                                 
                                               II.  
  
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent Schott has submitted an 
Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determin ed to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest  and without preliminary hearing, may, by order, . . .  
suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has been by name . . . permanently   
enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the                                                             
Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of  
the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3  below, which are admitted, Respondent 
Schott consents to the entry of  this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 
102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial  
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                               III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent Schott’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
                          1. Schott, age 44, was licensed as a CPA in Missouri until he allowed his 
license to lapse in May 1990.  He served as Chief Financial Officer of Zoltek Companies, Inc.  
(“Zoltek”) from May 2004 until his resignation in May 2008. 
        
               2.     Zoltek was, at all relevant times, a Missouri corporation with its principal 
place of business in Bridgeton, Missouri.  Zoltek has operations in several countries and is engaged 
in the manufacture of carbon fibers used in brake pads and wind turbine blades.  At all relevant 
times, Zoltek’s stock has been registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and traded on the NASDAQ.    
        
               3.     On  August 16, 2010, a final judgment was entered against Schott, 
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and 
Rules 13a-14, 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder, in the civil action entitled U.S. Securities and 
Exchange Commission v. Kevin J. Schott, Civil Action Number 4:10-cv-01500-AGF, in the 
United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri.  Schott was ordered to pay a 
$20,000 civil penalty.   
 
               4.     The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Schott 
circumvented Zoltek’s internal accounting controls and caused Zoltek to make two payments  
totaling $250,000 to an outside consultant who had raised funds for Zoltek in the past, despite 
Zoltek’s CEO’s explicit instruction not to make the payments.  Instead of following Zoltek’s 
internal controls which required the CEO to approve all wire transfers originated in the United 
States for over $5,000, Schott emailed the controller of Zoltek’s Hungarian subsidiary on two 
occasions and instructed him to wire $175,000 and $75,000, respectively, to the consultant.  
According to the complaint, Schott told the Hungarian controller in both emails that the payments  
were for another purpose.  Schott further concealed the payments to the outside consultant by 
creating a false document which he gave to Zoltek’s CEO.  By characterizing the payments he 
made to the consultant as relating to another purpose, Schott caused Zoltek to make false entries 
into its books and records.  According to the complaint, Schott also made false and misleading 
representations to the public and to Zoltek’s external auditors when he certified Zoltek’s financial 
statements for the fiscal year ended on September 30, 2007 and for the first quarter of 2008 ended 
on December 31, 2007. 
        
        
        
        

                                                2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                IV. 
                                                   
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Schott’s Offer.  
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
       A.      Respondent Schott is suspended from appearing or practicing before the  
Commission as an accountant. 
 
       B.      After one year from the date of this order, Respondent Schott may request that  
the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of 
the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                                1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent Schott’s work in his practice before 
the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public 
company for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before 
the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                            (a) Respondent Schott, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight      Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                       (b)     Respondent Schott, or the re gistered public accounting firm with 
which he  is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspect  ion did not identify any 
criticisms of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that 
would indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                (c)            Respondent Schott has resolved    all disciplinary issues with the 
Board, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board 
(other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                       (d)     Respondent Schott acknowle    dges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.        
 
        
        

                                                  3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

         C.        The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume  
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
  
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                                       M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                                 

                                                              4
  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                              Service List  
 
        Rule 141 of the Commission's Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or another duly 
authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the  Order Instituting Administrative  
Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and 
Imposing Remedial Sanctions ("Order") on the Respondent and his legal agent. 
 
        The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to 
notice: 
 
Honorable Brenda P. Murray                              
Chief Administrative Law Judge                          
Securities and Exchange Commission  
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-2557                        
                                                   
Richard G. Stoltz, Esq.                                      
Chicago Regional Office                                        
Securities and Exchange Commission               
175 West Jackson Boulevard, Suite 900            
Chicago, IL 60604-2615                           
      
Mr. Kevin J. Schott                  
c/o Christopher J. Petri, Esq. 
Byron Carlson Petri & Kalb, LLC                                      
411 St. Louis Street 
Edwardsville, IL 62025                                       
                                                       
Christopher J. Petri, Esq. 
Byron Carlson Petri & Kalb, LLC                                      
411 St. Louis Street 
Edwardsville, IL 62025  
(Counsel for Kevin J. Schott) 
 
 

                                                    5
  
