---------------------Page 1---------------------

                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                          Before the 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  60017 / June 1, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 2983 / June 1, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-13500 
 
                                              
In the Matter of                             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
      SHARLENE ABRAMS, CPA                   102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                             PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
      Respondent.                            IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS  
 
 
 
 
                                            I.  
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) deems it appropriate and in 
the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
Sharlene Abrams (the “Respondent” or “Abrams”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1 
                 
 
                                           II.  
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these pr oceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) whic h the Commission has determined  to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the     
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  

                                                 
1 
      Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
      The Commission, with due regard to the public  interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has  
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any c ourt of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisd  iction over her and the subject matter of these   
proceedings, and the findings contained in Sect ion III.3. below, which are admitted, Respondent  
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making  Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (the  
“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
       1.   Sharlene Abrams, age 51, is a resident of the state of Nevada.  Abrams served as Chief  
Financial Officer, Vice-President of Finance   and Administration, and Secretary of Mercury    
Interactive Corporation (“Mercury”) between November 1993 and November  2001.  Prior to her 
tenure at Mercury, she was employed at Price Wa terhouse LLP, rising to the position of senior   
manager.  Abrams was, beginning on or about     July 1, 1981, a CPA licensed in the state of 
Massachusetts, but that license lapsed no later than June 30, 2003 and she is no longer licensed as a  
CPA in any state. 
 
       2.   Mercury was acquired by the Hewlett-Pack  ard Company (“HP”)   by an agreement  
consummated on November 8, 2006, and is now Mercury Interactive, LLC, a non-trading 
subsidiary of HP.  Prior to the consummation of the merger, Mercury was a corporation 
headquartered in Mountain View, California, and organized under the laws of Delaware.  Mercury 
made software used to test and optimize        information technology systems and software      
applications.  At the time of the conduct described in this Order, the company’s common stock was  
registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Exchange Act”) and listed on the NASDAQ under the symbol MERQ. 
 
       3.   On March 24, 2009, a final j udgment was entered by consent against Abrams in the   
civil action entitled Securities and Exchange  Commission v. Mercury  Interactive, et. al, Civil  
Action Number C 07-2822 (JF), in  the United States District Court  for the Northern District of 
California.  The final judgment  permanently enjoined Abrams from future violations of Section  
17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, Sections 10 (b), 13(b)(5), 14(a), and 16(a) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and Exchange Act Rules 10b-5, 13a-14, 13b2-1, 13b2-2, 
14a-9, and 16a-3, and from  aiding and abetting violations of Section 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Exchange  Act Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13.  The final 
judgment also prohibited Abrams from acting as an officer or director of any issuer that has a class  
of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act or that is required to file reports 
pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Ac      t, and ordered her to pay disgorgement of     
$2,287,914, prejudgment interest in the amount of $112,086, and a $425,000 civil penalty. 
 
       4.   The Commission’s Complaint alleged, among other things, that no later than 1997, 
Abrams engaged in a fraudulent scheme with Merc ury’s former Chief Executive Officer, former  
General Counsel and others to grant undisclosed,  in-the-money stock options to themselves and 
others, by backdating stock option grants to coin  cide with historically low closing prices for 
Mercury’s stock.  According to the Complaint, Abrams’ fraudulent misconduct caused Mercury, 

                                              -2- 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

between 1997 and 2005, (i) to f      ile materially false and misleading financial statements that       
materially understated its compensation expenses and materially overstated its quarterly and annual  
net income and earnings per share,  and (ii) to make disclosures in its periodic filings and proxy 
statements that falsely portrayed Mercury’s options as having been granted at exercise prices equal 
to the fair market value of Me rcury’s common stock on the date of  the grant.  According to the 
Complaint, Abrams also misled Mercury’s outside auditors in an attempt to hide the scheme.  The 
Complaint alleged that Abrams, and others, filed Forms 3 and 4 with the Commission that                  
contained false or misleading statements with regard to the options’ grant dates and the exercise 
prices.  The Complaint also alleged that from 1998 through 2001, Abrams and others fraudulently 
backdated the dates of option exercises of certain  senior Mercury officers, including Abrams, to 
low-points of the company’s stock price, in order to minimize the officers’ taxable gain on exercise  
or receive more favorable long-term capital gains     treatment on profits they earned upon the later 
sale of the stock acquired through exercise.  The benefits reaped from the backdated exercises were  
concealed through fraudulent proxy disclosures and in Forms 4 filed with the Commission.           The  
Complaint further alleged that during at least 1997 through 2001, Abrams participated in a scheme  
to manipulate Mercury’s reported earnings per share (“EPS”) by holding shipping of its products  
once revenue targets for a period had been achieved, pushing the recognition of the revenue into   
subsequent periods, while concealing these pr  actices from the public through fraudulent and 
misleading disclosures and omissions.  The Complaint additionally alleged that between 1999 and 
2005, Abrams and others particip ated in the fraudulent structur ing of overseas employee stock 
option exercise transactions to conceal the variable accounting consequences of those transactions, 
causing the company to fail to report the appr  oximately $24 million in  compensation expense 
required under variable accounting.  
 
                                                  IV.  
 
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Abrams’ Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
        Abrams is suspended from appearing or            practicing before the   Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                       M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                  

                                                  -3- 
