---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                          UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                      before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 68756 / January 29, 2013 
 
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940 
Release No. 3539 / January 29, 2013  
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3443 / January 29, 2013 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15193 
 
 
 
                                          
                                          
In the Matter of                         ORDER INSTITU    TING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                         PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) 
                                         OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
LISA B. HOVAN, CPA                       PRACTICE AND SECTION 203(f) OF THE 
                                         INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940, 
                                         MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
Respondent.                             REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                          
                                        
                                        
                                          
 
 
 
 
                                          I. 
                                            
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in 
the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant 
to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice1
                                                     and pursuant to Section 203(f) of the 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against  Lisa B. Hovan, CPA (“Respondent” 
or “Hovan”). 
 
                                               II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3, below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, 
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
               1.     Respondent, age 45, is a certified public accountant, currently licensed in 
California and previously licensed in New Jersey and New York.  She  is a resident of Belvedere, 
California.  
                
               2.     From 1999 through 2010, Respondent was a     member, indirect owner with 
her husband, and Chief Financial Officer of Hovan Capital Management, LLC    (“HCM”), an 
investment adviser registered with the Commission.  Among HCM’s clients, from August 2006 
until March 2009, HCM served as a sub  -adviser to a Commission-registered investment company 
that was based in Harrison, New York.   
        
               3.     On January 14, 2013, a final judgment was entered against Hovan, 
permanently enjoining her from future violations of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), Exchange Act Rul   e 10b-5, Sections 206(1), 206(2) and 207 of the 
Advisers Act, in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Kurt Hovan, et 
al., Civil Action No. CV -11-4795-RS, in the United States District Court for the Northern District 
of California.  Hovan was also ordered to pay a $50,000 civil money penalty. 
        
               4.     The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Hovan, 
acting with her husband, Kurt Hovan, misused so-called “soft dollars” that HCM had obtained as 
rebates on commissions paid for securities trades executed in the accounts of HCM’s clients.  
According to the complaint, contrary to assurances to clients and others that HCM would only use 
soft dollars to pay for a limited category of services that benefitted HCM’s clients, Respondent and 
her husband and HCM used the soft dollars for prohibited purposes, including for HCM’s rent, 
salaries, and for office equipment for HCM.  The complaint further alleged that Respondent 
provided the mutual fund client of HCM’s with certifications stating that soft dollars had not been 
                                                                                                                                                             
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
                                                2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

used to pay for items other than research that would benefit the client. 
        
                                              IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Hovan’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.     Pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Respondent 
Hovan is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant. 
        
       B.     After five years from the date of this Order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider her reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
        
              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in her practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which she works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as she practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; or 
               
              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
 
                      (a)    Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which she is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which 
she is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any 
criticisms of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that 
would indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
 
                      (c)    Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                      (d)    Respondent acknowledges her responsibility, as long as Respondent 
appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards. 
 
       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that her state CPA license is 

                                               3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

current and she has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
        
       D.     Pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, Respondent Hovan is barred 
from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, 
municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating organization, with 
the right to apply for reentry after five years to the appropriate self-regulatory organization, or 
if there is none, to the Commission. 
        
       E.     Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the 
applicable laws and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be 
conditioned upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or 
all of the following:  (a) any disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not 
the Commission has fully or partially waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any 
arbitration award related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order; (c) 
any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a customer, whether or not related to the 
conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order; and (d) any restitution order by a 
self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for 
the Commission order. 
 
 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                     Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                     Secretary 

                                                4 
 
