---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                  STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                            the 

 SECURITIES                           AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 63600 / December 22, 2010 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3222 / December 22, 2010 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14171 
                                              
                                                : 
                                             :        
                                             :         
   In the Matter of                          :       ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                             :       PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
     JAMES M. SCHNEIDER, CPA,                :       102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                             :       PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
           Respondent.                       :       IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                         : 
                                                         : 
____________________________________ :        
                                                      
 
                                                I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against James 
M. Schneider (“Respondent” or “Schneider”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1 
                     
                                                  
                                                II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest  and without preliminary hearing, may, by order, . . .  
suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has been by name . . . permanently   
enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the                                                             
Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of  
the rules and regulations thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent  
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
              1.      Schneider, age 57, is and has been  a certified public accountant licensed to 
practice in the State of Wisconsin.  Schneider served as Chief Accounting Officer (“CAO”) of Dell 
Inc. from the time he joined the company in September 1996 until March 2000, when he also 
became Dell’s Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”).  In November 2002, Schneider ceased to be CAO, 
but remained CFO, a position he held until January 1, 2007.  Schneider left Dell on February 2, 
2007. 
        
                          2. Dell Inc. is a Fortune 50 company in the business of providing electronic 
products, including mobility products, desktop PCs, peripherals, servers, networking equipment, 
and storage.  Dell also offers services, including software, infrastructure technology, consulting 
and applications, and business process services.  Dell was incorporated in Delaware in 1984 and is 
based in Round Rock, Texas.  Since July 2006, Dell’s common stock has been registered with the  
Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) 
and is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market.  During the prior relevant period, Dell’s 
common stock was registered with the Commission under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and 
quoted on the Nasdaq National Market System. 
 
              3.      On July 22, 2010, the  Commission filed a complaint against Schneider in  
the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia captioned SEC v. Dell Inc. et al. (Civil Action 
No. 1:10-cv-01245).  On October 13, 2010, the court entered an order permanently enjoining 
Schneider, by consent, from future violations of Section 17(a)(2) and Section 17(a)(3) of the 
Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Exchange Act Section 13(b)(5) and Rules 13a-14, 13b2-
1, and 13b2-2 thereunder, and from aiding and abetting violation of Exchange Act Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder.  Schneider was also 
ordered to pay $83,096 in disgorgement of ill-gotten gains, $38,640 in prejudgment interest, and a 
$3 million civil money penalty. 
 
              4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Dell 
fraudulently committed various disclosure and accounting violations through the conduct of 
Schneider and others.  The Complaint alleged that Schneider made or was involved in making 
material misrepresentations in earnings calls and material misrepresentations and omissions in 
Dell’s annual reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal  years 2003 through 2006 and in the company’s  
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the first three quarters of fiscal years 2003 through 2006 and 
the first quarter of fiscal 2007 relating to the impacts on Dell’s operating results from payments 
from Intel Corp.  The material misrepresentations during earnings calls misled investors as to the 
bases for Dell’s success in meeting or exceeding analyst consensus EPS estimates and the reasons 

                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

for Dell’s sharp drop in operating results in its second quarter of fiscal year 2007.  The disclosure 
violations misrepresented to investors the bases for Dell’s increasing profitability and failed to 
disclose information required by Item 303 of Regulation S-K.  The Commission’s complaint also 
alleged, among other things, that Schneider directed and engaged in improper accounting that 
resulted in Dell filing materially false and misleading financial statements in the company’s 
annual reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal years 2002 through 2004, and in the company’s 
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the first three quarters of fiscal years 2002 through 2004 and 
the first two quarters of fiscal 2005.  The Complaint alleged that Schneider directed and engaged 
in a number of improper accounting practices in contravention of generally accepted accounting 
principles that materially misstated Dell’s financial results and enabled the company to report 
lower operating expense as a percentage of revenue.  These practices included improperly 
manipulating excess reserve balances and improperly accounting for certain restructuring costs. 
 
                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Schneider’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
       A.      Schneider is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
                    B. After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the  
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the  
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as:  
 
                                 1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
        2.             an independent accountant. Su   ch an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                            (a) Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight     Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                       (b)    Respondent, or the registered  public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms  
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision;  

                                                 3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                  (c)              Respondent has resolved all di      sciplinary issues with the Board and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                          (d)      Respondent acknowledges         his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 
 
        C.       The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume  
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission.              
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                                M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                          

                                                         4
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                         Service List  
 
       Rule 141 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or another 
duly authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order Instituting 
Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), on the Respondent and his legal 
agent. 
 
       The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to 
notice:  
 
Honorable Brenda P. Murray 
Chief Administrative Law Judge  
Securities and Exchange Commission 
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-2557 
 
Ian Rupell, Esq. 
Division of Enforcement 
Securities and Exchange Commission 
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-5561 
 
Mr. James M. Schneider 
c/o W. Neil Eggleston, Esq. 
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP 
555 13th Street, N.W. 
Washington, DC 20004 
 
W. Neil Eggleston, Esq. 

Debevoise & Plimpton LLP 

555 13th Street, N.W. 

Washington, DC 20004 

(Counsel for James M. Schneider)
  
 

                                              5
  
