---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                        

                                                
                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  

                                          Before the 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 62136 / May 19, 2010 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3135 / May 19, 2010 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-13114 

                            : 
                           : 
In the Matter of              ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           : 
                              REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
                           : 
Michael G. Lutze, CPA         BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           : 
                           : 
                           
        
       On August 5, 2008, Michael G. Lutze, CPA (“Lutze”) was denied the privilege of 
appearing or practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against Lutze pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                        Lutze consented to the entry of the August 5, 2008 order 
without admitting or denying the findings therein.  This order is issued in response to Lutze’s 
application for reinstatement to practice before the Commission as an accountant. 
        
       From April 2003 through May 2005, Lutze served as the coordinating partner on Ernst & 
Young LLP’s (“E&Y”) audits of the client at issue.  The Commission alleged that on August 7, 
2003, Lutze learned that a member of the client’s Board of Directors and Audit Committee was 
serving as a paid advisor to E&Y at the National Industry level.  Lutze took no follow-up action 
to learn the relationship’s details or to assess its independence implications or to inform the 
client of the existence of the relationship.  On May 4, 2004, E&Y informed the client of the 
relationship.  On May 12, 2004, the client’s Audit Committee asked Lutze to confirm in writing 
that neither he, nor the prior coordinating partner, nor anyone currently serving on the audit 
engagement was aware at any time prior to May 4, 2004 of the relationship.  On May 14, 2004, 
Lutze furnished to the client’s Audit Committee a letter on behalf of E&Y that failed to fully 
disclose the August 7, 2003 email that he had received.  By failing to fully disclose the August 7, 
2003 email that he had received, the Commission alleged that Lutze had engaged in improper 

                                                 
1 
 See  Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2858 dated August 5, 2008.  Lutze was permitted, pursuant                     
to the order, to apply for reinstatement after one year upon making certain showings.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                              

professional conduct under Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rule of Practice and Section 4C of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 
 
       Lutze has met all of the conditions set forth in the original order and, in his capacity as an 
independent accountant, has stated that he will comply with all requirements of the Commission 
and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, including, but not limited to all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.  In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the 
preparation or review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the 
Commission, Lutze attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent 
audit committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, while practicing before the Commission in this capacity.   
        
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”     2
                                                              This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
        On the basis of the information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed 
to by Lutze, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the August 5, 2008 order denying 
him the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 
and that Lutze, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in his 
practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission, and that Lutze, by undertaking to comply with all requirements of the 
Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, including, but not limited to, 
all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
control standards, in his practice before the Commission as an independent accountant has shown 
good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3)  
of this section may be made at any time, and the applic ant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated                         
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i).                        
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                       

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Michael G. Lutze, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                                         Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                         Secretary 
                                                          
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                                                                    

                                                        
                                                        
                          Service List for MICHAEL G. LUTZE  
 
David B. Hardison 
Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP 
1001 Pennsylvania Ave., NW  
Washington, DC 20004 
(202) 639-7029 
                                                        
