---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 68591 / January 4, 2013 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3435 / January 4, 2013 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-13977 

                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Kenneth J. Abod, CPA 
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION           
                          
        

       On July 23, 2010, Kenneth J. Abod, CPA  (“Abod”) was denied the privilege of  
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against Abod pursuant to Rule 
102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                                    This order is issued in response to Abod’s 
application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant 
responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed with the 
Commission. 

       The Commission found that Abod failed to comply with Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles (“GAAP”) while serving as Sunrise Senior Living, Inc.’s (“Sunrise” or the 
“Company”) treasurer for the year-end 2004 and the first fiscal quarter of 2005.  Abod helped 
determine the amount of Sunrise’s 2004 year -end bonus accrual and was aware that the company 
was planning to pay $1 million in 2004 bonuses in 2005 but had failed to accrue for them at 2004 
fiscal year-end.  Abod also instructed Sunrise employees to make an adjustment to eliminate the 
corporate bonus accrual account for the first quarter of 2005, ended on March 31, 2005.  Sunrise 
would not have met previously issued earnings per share forecasts if it had properly accrued for 
bonuses at year end 2004 and the first fiscal quarter of 2005.  The accounting for the corporate 
bonus accrual account failed to comply with GAAP, because it was probable that Sunrise would 
pay bonuses and could reasonably estimate the bonus payment amounts.  Consequently, Abod 
caused Sunrise to issue an annual report for fiscal year 2004 and a quarterly report for the first 
                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 3158 dated July 23, 2010.  Abod was permitted, pursuant 
to the order, to apply for reinstatement after one year upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                    

quarter of 2005 that failed to comply with GAAP.  As a result of this conduct, the Commission 
found that Abod willfully violated Section 13(b)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Exchange Act”) and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder and caused and willfully aided and abetted 
Sunrise’s violations of Exchange Act Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) and Rule 12b-
20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder. 

       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Abod 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Abod is not, at this time, seeking to appear or 
practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume 
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be 
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Abod’s 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard   in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 

       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 

       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Abod, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the July 23, 2010 order suspending 
him from appearing or   practicing  before the Commission as an accountant, that no information 
has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, professional 
conduct, or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis for adverse 
action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’   s Rules of Practice, and that 
Abod, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of any 
company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in his 
practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 

        
        
        
        

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R . § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
 

                                                 2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                               

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice that 
Kenneth J. Abod, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                            
                                            
                                           Elizabeth M. Murphy  
                                           Secretary  

                                              3 
