---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 
                               UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                            Before the 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 67590 / August 2, 2012 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3398 / August 2, 2012 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-14972
                                                                        
                                                                              :              
                                              :              
                                              :               
       In the Matter of                       :       ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                   :  PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
     KENNETH E. LONCHAR, CPA,                     :   102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                   :  PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
               Respondent.                                : IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                   :              
                                                   :              
____________________________________ :               
                                                             
                                                 I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Kenneth 
E. Lonchar, CPA (“Respondent” or “Lonchar”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1
                   
   

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
                                                 
                                              II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3  below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
              1.      Lonchar, age 54, has been a certified public accountant licensed to practice 
in the State of Idaho.  This license lapsed in 1995.  He served as Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) of 
Veritas Software Corporation (“Veritas”) from April 1997 until his resignation in October 2002. 
        
              2.      Veritas, now a wholly owned subsidiary of Symantec Corporation, was a 
software company headquartered in Mountain View, California that created and licensed data 
storage software.  At all relevant times, Veritas’ common stock was registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) 
and was quoted on the Nasdaq National Market.    
 
                     3. On July 20, 2012, a final judgment was entered against Lonchar, 
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 
10b-5 thereunder, in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Leslie, et al., 
Civil Action No. C 07-3444-CW, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of 
California.  Lonchar was also ordered to pay $300,000 in disgorgement representing profits gained 
as a result of the conduct alleged in the amended complaint and prejudgment interest thereon, and a 
$100,000 civil money penalty. 
          
                     4. The Commission’s amended complaint alleged Lonchar knowingly 
participated in two schemes to manipulate Veritas’ publicly reported revenues and earnings.  The 
complaint alleged that Veritas artificially inflated reported revenues by approximately $20 million 
in connection with a software sale to America Online, Inc. (“AOL”) in 2000.  According to the 
complaint, Lonchar, Veritas’ CFO, applied an accounting treatment to the transaction that did not 
comply with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).  The complaint also alleged that 
Lonchar and others concealed the true nature of the transaction with AOL, which allowed Veritas 
to artificially inflate its reported revenue.  The complaint further alleged that from at least 2000 
until his resignation in 2002, Lonchar and others also applied three non-GAAP accounting 

                                               2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
practices to “smooth” artificially Veritas’ financial results and that they concealed these 
manipulations from Veritas’ independent auditors.   
 
                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Lonchar  ’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.     Lonchar is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
               accountant.   
                
       B.      After five (5) years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that 
the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of 
the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                            (a) Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                             (b) Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                             (c) Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                                          (d) Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
 

                                                                4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 
        C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent 
to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA 
license is current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state 
boards of accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 
        By the Commission. 
 
 
                                                                                     Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                                                     Secretary 
 

                                                    5  
