---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                               UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                             before the 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 65377 / September 21, 2011 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3322 / September 21, 2011 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14558
                                                                        
                                                                              :              
                                              :              
                                              :               
       In the Matter of                       :       ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                   :  PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
     LARRY LEE CRAWFORD (CPA),   :                    102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                   :  PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
               Respondent.                                : IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                   :              
                                                   :              
____________________________________ :               
                                                             
 
                                                 I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Larry 
Lee Crawford (“Respondent” or “Crawford”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1
                     
                                                   

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
                                               II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section 3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
              1.      Crawford, 63, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to 
practice in North Carolina, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania.  He was Escala Group, Inc.’s (“Escala”) 
Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President from April 2001 until May 2006.   
        
              2.      Escala, which was known as Greg Manning Auctions, Inc. until September 
28, 2005, was a Delaware corporation.  Escala was a global network of companies in the 
collectibles market.  Escala’s common stock was listed on the NASDAQ National Market until 
February 7, 2007.  In May, 2009, Escala changed its name to Spectrum Group International, Inc. 
(“Spectrum”).   Spectrum’s common stock is now traded over  -the-counter and quoted on the Pink 
Sheets under the trading symbol SPGZ.PK.   
 
              3.      On September 9, 2011, a final judgment was entered against Crawford , 
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rules 10b-   5, 13b2-1, 13b2-2, and 13a-14 thereunder, 
and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange 
Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder, in the civil action entitled Securities and 
Exchange Commission v. Escala Group, Inc.,   et al., Civil Action Number 09-cv-2646, in the 
United States District Court for the Southern District of New York.  Crawford was also ordered to 
pay $43,495 in disgorgement, and $21,089.75  in prejudgment interest, and a $100,000 civil money 
penalty. 
 
                            4.           The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Crawford 
violated the antifraud and reporting provisions of the federal securities laws by:  (1) failing to 
disclose the related-party status of the company that owned and published the Brookman 
Catalogue, resulting in control of that catalogue and failing to disclose the revenues obtained by 
virtue of Escala’s former parent and its former CEO’s control of the prices in the Brookman 
Catalogue for stamp collections that Escala sold to its former parent; (2) falsely representing that 
Escala sold its former parent company several large stamp archives at prices determined by 

                                               2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
reference to independent stamp catalogues and appraisals when in fact Escala’s former CEO      set 
the catalogue prices and influenced and edited the appraisals; and (3)  improperly booking the 
sale of certain antiques. 
  
                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Crawford   ’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Crawford is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
       B.      After three years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
               1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                            (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                             (b)        Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision;                  

                             (c)         Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                             (d)        Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 

                                                 3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
      
        C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
        By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                                                     Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                                                     Secretary 
 

                                                    4  
