---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                        Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 68234 / November 14, 2012 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3424 / November 14, 2012  
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-15091
 
                                                 
                                                
                                                
In the Matter of                               ORDER INSTITUTING  
                                               ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
       JAMES S. QUAY a/k/a JIM                  PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
       QUAY a/k/a STEPHEN                 COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
       QUAY a/k/a STEPHEN                       MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
       JAMESON,                                 REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                
Respondent.                                     
 
 
 
 
                                            
                                                  
                                             I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against James 
S. Quay a/k/a Jim Quay, Stephen Quay, and Stephen Jameson (“James Quay” or “Respondent”) 
                                                               1
pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.   

                                                           
1
       Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by 
order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . attorney … accountant . . . who has been 
by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her 
misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of 
any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                  
                                               II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.2 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
                                                  
               1.     James Quay, age 51, was previously an attorney licensed in the states of 
Georgia, Oklahoma, and Texas and has since been disbarred in Georgia and Texas, stemming 
from his 2005 federal criminal conviction for filing a false income tax return for which he was 
sentenced to 15 months incarceration.  Although not licensed as a certified public accountant, 
James Quay purports to have sat for and passed the Uniform Certified Public Accountant 
Examination. 
        
               2.     On October 18, 2012, a final judgment was entered by consent against 
James Quay, permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 5(a), 5(c), and 17(a) of 
the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Sections 10(b) and 15(a) of the Exchange Act and 
Rule 10b-5 thereunder, in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. James 
S. Quay, et al., Civil Action No. 1:12-cv-03429-RWS, in the United States District Court for the 
Northern District of Georgia.  
 
               3.      The  Commission’s  complaint  alleged,  among  other  things,  that,  from  at 
least October 2007 until at least January 2012, James Quay failed to disclose  to actual or potential 
investors:  (1)  compensation,  revenue  or  commissions  derived  from  their  participation  or 
investment;  (2)  information  regarding  prior  or  current  criminal,  regulatory  or  professional 
licensure actions; (3) material information regarding the use of investor funds; (4) overstating 
investment returns; (5) understating investment risks; or (6) misrepresenting the nature of an 
investment. 
        
                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent James Quay’s Offer. 
 
                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.     James Quay is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
       an accountant.   
                
       B.     James Quay is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
       an attorney.   
 
        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                     Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                     Secretary 
 
 

 

                                                3  
