---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                 STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                           the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 62401 / June 29, 2010 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3148 / June 29, 2010 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13952 
                                             
                                              : 
                                            :       
                                            :        
       In the Matter of                     :      ORDER INSTITUTING                                     
                                            : ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                             :     PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
              STEPHEN HOZIE,                :      102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES  
                                             :     OF PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, 
         Respondent.                        :      AND IMPO     SING REMEDIAL                    
                                            : SANCTIONS 
                                                       : 
                                                       : 
____________________________________ :               
                                                    
 
                                                    
                                               I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Stephen 
Hozie (“Respondent” or “Hozie”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1 
            

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III  below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III.  
  
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
  
              1.      Hozie, age 51, passed the Uniform CPA exam in Illinois, but has never been 
licensed as a CPA in any state. He served as an executive vice president and the chief financial 
officer of American Home Mortgage from   March 2002 until June  2008. 
        
              2.      American Home Mortgage Investment Corp. (“AHM” or “the Company”)  
is a Maryland corporation headquartered in Melville, New York.  In 2006, AHM was one of the 
nation’s largest home mortgage lenders.  AHM’s common and preferred stock was registered with 
the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b)  of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 
Act”).  However, the NYSE filed Forms 25 delisting and deregistering AHM’s securities from 
Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act as of September 17, 2007.  Upon delisting, AHM’s common 
stock was deemed registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act based on its 537 
common stock holders of record (as reported in AHM’s 2006 Form 10-K) and the fact that its total 
assets for 2004, 2005 and 2006 exceeded $10 million.  Through the first quarter of 2007, AHM  
filed periodic reports, including Forms 10-K and 10-Q, with the Commission pursuant to Section 
13(a) of the Exchange Act and related rules thereunder.  Since May 10, 2007, the Company has not 
filed any required periodic reports.  On August 6, 2007, AHM and its direct and indirect  
subsidiaries filed for bankruptcy protection.  The Bankruptcy Court confirmed AHM’s liquidating 
bankruptcy plan on February 23, 2009.   Thus, the Company will ultimately cease to exist.   
        
              3.      On April 28, 2009 the Commission filed a complaint against Hozie in SEC  
v. Strauss, et al. (09 Civ. 4150) (S.D.N.Y.).  Hozie consented to a settlement of this matter.  On 
June 7, 2010, the court entered an order permanently restraining and enjoining Hozie from direct or 
indirect violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of 
the Securities Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 13a-14, 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder and from 
aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act  
and Rules 12b-20, 13a-11  and 13a-13 thereunder.  Hozie was also ordered to pay a $225,000 civil 
money penalty and $1 of disgorgement. 
 

                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

               4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Hozie  
fraudulently understated AHM’s first quarter 2007 loan loss reserves by tens of millions of dollars, 
converting the Company’s loss into a fictional profit.  The complaint further alleges that Hozie 
made misleading disclosures concerning the Company’s financial condition including 
misrepresenting the Company’s liquidity and failing to adequately disclose the riskiness of the 
mortgages American Home Mortgage originated  and held.  The complaint further alleges that 
Hozie misled American Home Mortgage’s auditor about the adequacy of the reserves, among other  
violations. 
        
                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Hozie’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
       A.      Hozie is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
       B.      After five years from  the date of this Order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the  
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                                1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
      
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                            (a) Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight     Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                       (b)    Respondent, or the registered  public accounting firm with which he  
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms  
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                (c)           Respondent has resolved all di  sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                                                 3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                 (d)             Respondent acknowledges        his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 
      
        C.       The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant provided that his state CPA 
license is current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state 
boards of accountancy.  The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to 
resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer, or a person 
responsible for the preparation or review, of any public company’s financial statements that 
are filed with the Commission provided that his state CPA license or certificate is current and 
he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state board of accountancy.  
However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the 
Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may 
include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters 
relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear 
or practice before the Commission. 
 
  By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                            M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                      
 

                                                      4
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                           Service List  
 
       Rule 141 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or another 
duly authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the  Order Instituting 
Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions ("Order"), on the Respondent. 
 
       The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to 
notice: 
 
Honorable Brenda P. Murray                              
Chief Administrative Law Judge                          
Securities and Exchange Commission  
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-2557  
 
Maureen Peyton King, Esq.                                
New York Regional Office                                
Securities and Exchange Commission            
Three World Financial Center, Room 400  
New York, NY 10281 
      
Mr. Stephen Hozie 
c/o Larry Gerschwer, Esq. 
Morrison & Foerster LLP 
1290 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, NY 10104-0050 
                                       
Larry Gerschwer, Esq. 
Morrison & Foerster LLP 
1290 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, NY 10104-0050 
Counsel to Stephen Hozie 
 
 

                                                5
  
