---------------------Page 1---------------------

                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 68845 / February 6, 2013                          
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3444 / February 6, 2013 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15206 
 
                                              
In the Matter of                            ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                            ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS  
      Joseph J. Repko, CPA                  PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e)(3) OF THE 
                                            COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE 
             Respondent.                    AND IMPOSING TEMPORARY 
                                            SUSPENSION 
                                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
                                            I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to 
Rule 102(e)(3)1
               of the Commission’s Rules of Practice against Joseph J. Repko (“Respondent” or 
“Repko”).   
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                 
1
      Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
                                              II. 
 
       After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that: 
        
       A.     RESPONDENT 
 
              1.      Repko, age 63, has been a certified public accountant (“CPA”) licensed to 
practice in the State of Pennsylvania since August 1981.  Repko’s CPA license is currently inactive.  
From no later than April through June 2009, Repko was the chief financial officer of Sure Trace 
Security Corporation (“Sure Trace”) and, during a portion of that time, its president.  
   
       B.     CIVIL INJUNCTION 
   
              2.      On November 28, 2012, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of 
Florida entered a final judgment by default against Repko that, among other things, permanently 
enjoins him from future violations, direct or indirect, of Section 17(a)(1) of the Securities Act of 
1933 and Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5(a) thereunder.  
Securities and Exchange Commission v.  Joseph J. Repko, et al., Civil Action Number 0:12-cv-
61079-KMW.   
        
              3.      The Commission’s complaint alleged that from April through June 2009, 
Repko and others engaged in a fraudulent scheme involving illicit kickbacks to induce the 
purchase of Sure Trace’s stock.  Specifically, according to the complaint, Repko participated in 
paying illegal kickbacks to a purported trustee of an employee pension fund so the trustee would 
purchase 133 million restricted shares of the company’s stock.  Repko and the other defendants 
attempted to conceal the kickbacks by entering into a sham consulting agreement between Sure 
Trace and a purported consulting company created to receive the kickbacks. 
        
                                              III. 
        
       Based upon the foregoing, the Commission finds that a court of competent jurisdiction has 
permanently enjoined Repko, a CPA, from violating the Federal securities laws within the meaning 
of Rule 102(e)(3)(i)(A) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.    In view of these  findings, the 
Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest that Repko be temporarily suspended 
from appearing or practicing before the Commission. 
   
       IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Repko  be, and hereby is, temporarily suspended from 
appearing or practicing before the Commission.  This Order shall be effective upon service on the 
Respondent. 
 
       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Repko may within thirty days after service of this Order 
file a petition with the Commission to lift the temporary suspension.    If the Commission within 
thirty days after service of the Order receives no petition, the suspension shall become permanent 
pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(ii). 

                                               2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

  
        If a petition is received within thirty days after service of this Order, the Commission shall, 
within thirty days after the filing of the petition, either lift the temporary suspension, or set the 
matter down for hearing at a time and place to be designat ed by the Commission, or both.   If a 
hearing is ordered, following the hearing, the Commission may lift the suspension, censure the 
petitioner, or disqualify the petitioner from appearing or practicing before the Commission for a 
period of time, or permanently, pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(iii). 
 
       This Order shall be served upon Repko  personally or by certified mail at his last known 
address. 
        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                     Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                     Secretary 
 
        

                                                 3  
