---------------------Page 1---------------------

                          UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                     Before the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 62761 / August 24, 2010 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3175 / August 24, 2010 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14018 
                                             ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                             ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-AND-
                                             DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT 
In the Matter of                             TO SECTIONS 4C AND 21C OF THE 
                                             SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
      STEPHEN BURKE, CPA                     AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                             COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
Respondent.                                  PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                             IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                             AND A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
                                                    
 
 
 
                                          I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
Stephen Burke, CPA (“Respondent” or “Burke”) pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(l)(iii) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice. 

                                         II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting 
Public Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as  
set forth below. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds   1
                                                                                   that: 

                                           Summary  

       1.      These proceedings arise out of material misstatements of revenue and net income  
by Fischer Imaging Corporation (“Fischer”) in its filings on Form 10-Q for the second and third 
quarters of 2002.  From January 2000 through September 2002, Fischer materially misstated 
revenue and net income in its financial statements as a result of, among other things, Fischer’s 
improper recognition of revenue from equipment orders upon shipment to warehouses controlled 
by Fischer.  Burke was hired as a consultant by Fischer’s board of directors in March, 2002, and 
received information regarding this practice shortly thereafter.  After Burke became Fischer’s 
CFO in October 2002, Burke signed an amended quarterly filing for Fischer’s second quarter of 
2002 and signed Fischer’s quarterly filing for the third quarter of 2002 without taking sufficient 
steps to determine whether Fischer’s revenue recognition practices were appropriate.  Further, 
despite his knowledge of Fischer’s shipments to storage facilities, Burke did not take sufficient 
steps to implement a system of internal accounting controls to ensure that Fischer’s revenue and 
net income were properly reported.  Through his inactions, Burke violated and aided and abetted 
violations of the reporting, internal controls and books and records provisions of the Exchange 
Act.  Burke also made or caused to be made false or misleading statements to Fischer’s external 
auditors regarding Fischer’s revenue recognition practices and provided false certifications in 
connection with Fischer’s amended filing for the second quarter of 2002 and Fischer’s quarterly 
filing for the third quarter of 2002. 

                                          Respondent  

       2.      Stephen Burke, age 61, of Lake Bluff, Illinois, was a consultant for Fischer’s 
board of directors from March 2002 through October 2002.  Burke was Fischer’s CFO, executive 
vice president of finance, and secretary from October 2002 to January 2004.  Burke has held a  
Minnesota CPA license since 1998, which is currently inactive.  In 2005, the Commission filed a 
civil injunctive action in the U. S. District Court for the District of Colorado against Burke and 
five other Fischer executives and board members based on their roles in Fischer’s improper 
revenue recognition and other accounting misstatements.  SEC v. Louis E. Rivelli, et al., Civil 
Action No. 1:05-cv-01039 (D.Colo). 

                                     Other Relevant Entity  

       3.      Fischer Imaging Corporation, during the relevant period, was a Delaware 
corporation with its principal place of business in Denver, Colorado.  Fischer was dissolved as of 
May 18, 2007, pursuant to a Chapter 11 Liquidating Plan.  Prior to its dissolution, Fischer 
designed, manufactured, and marketed specialty medical imaging systems used for the diagnosis 
and screening of disease.  Fischer’s common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant 
to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and Fischer was required to file periodic reports with the 
SEC on Forms 10-K and 10-Q.  In 2004, the Commission imposed a cease-and-desist order 
                                                 
1
  The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other  
person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  

                                                2 

---------------------Page 3---------------------

against Fischer for violations of the anti-fraud, reporting, internal controls and books and records 
provisions of the federal securities laws resulting from Fischer’s improper revenue recognition 
and other accounting misstatements.  In the Matter of Fischer Imaging Corp., Exchange Act Rel. 
No. 34-50663 (Nov. 15, 2004). 

                                             Facts  

A.     Fischer’s Improper Revenue Recognition 

       4.     From January 2000 through September 2002, Fischer improperly recognized 
revenue upon shipment of products to storage facilities rather than upon shipment to customers 
or customer designated locations.  Fischer paid for the storage costs while the equipment was at 
these storage facilities, insured the equipment, and continued to exercise control over it.  It was 
improper under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) for Fischer to recognize 
revenue on these orders at the time they were shipped to the storage facilities because, among 
other reasons, delivery had not occurred and the revenue had not been earned.  As a result of 
these and other improper revenue recognition practices, Fischer materially misstated its revenue 
and net income in its filings with the Commission from January 2000 through September 2002. 

B. Burke’s Conduct 

       5.     In March 2002, Burke was hired by Fischer’s board of directors to work at 
Fischer’s headquarters as a consultant and was charged with addressing various accounting 
issues about which the board had concerns.  Through his role as a Fischer consultant Burke 
became aware that Fischer recognized revenue for certain sales when products were shipped to 
storage facilities, rather than when they were shipped to customers or customer designated 
locations.  Burke also learned that Fischer was constrained from collecting accounts receivable 
related to products that were in storage. 

       6.     Burke became Fischer’s CFO in October 2002.  Despite Burke’s knowledge of 
Fischer’s practice of recognizing revenue upon shipment to storage facilities rather than to 
customer locations, he failed to implement a sufficient system of internal controls designed to 
provide reasonable assurances that Fischer reported its revenue and net income in conformity 
with GAAP.  Burke also circumvented or failed to implement the internal controls Fischer did 
have and caused Fischer’s revenue and net income to be falsified through his failure to fully 
investigate Fischer’s practice of recognizing revenue on shipments to storage facilities. 

       7.     After Burke became Fischer’s CFO in October 2002, he reviewed and signed 
Fischer’s amended filing on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2002, which Fischer filed  
on November 14, 2002, and Fischer’s quarterly filing on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 
September 29, 2002.  Fischer’s revenue and net income were materially misstated in these filings  
and in Fischer’s books and records as a result of Fischer’s improper revenue practices.  In 
connection with these filings, Burke signed certifications that falsely stated that to the best of his 
knowledge, they complied with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and fairly 
presented, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Fischer.  
Burke signed these certifications without taking sufficient steps to investigate whether Fischer’s 
revenue recognition practices rendered the certifications false.  

                                                3 

---------------------Page 4---------------------

       8.      Burke also made materially false or misleading statements to Fischer’s external 
auditors in connection with their reviews of Fischer’s filings for the second and third quarters of 
2002 regarding Fischer’s revenue recognition practices and aged accounts receivable associated 
with orders that were in storage.  Additionally, Burke signed management representation letters 
that contained false or misleading statements regarding, among other things, Fischer’s revenue 
recognition practices and the validity of sales and associated receivables recorded in Fischer’s 
accounting records. 

                                           Violations  

       9.      Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-13 thereunder require issuers 
with securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act to file quarterly and other 
periodic reports with the Commission and to keep this information current.  The obligation to file 
such reports embodies the requirement that they be true and correct.  See, e.g., SEC v. Savoy 
Indus., Inc., 587 F.2d 1149, 1165 (D.C. Cir. 1978), cert. denied , 440 U.S. 913 (1979).  In 
addition to the information expressly required to be included in a statement or report, Rule 12b-
20 requires that there shall be added such further material information, if any, as may be 
necessary to make the required statements, in the light of the circumstances under which they are 
made, not misleading. 

       10.     As discussed above, Burke caused Fischer to file false and misleading quarterly 
reports with the Commission for the second and third quarters of 2002 that misrepresented the 
revenue and net income of Fischer.  By his conduct described above, Burke willfully aided and 
abetted and caused Fischer’s violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-13 
and Rule 12b-20 thereunder. 

       11.     Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires Section 12 registrants to make 
and keep books, records, and accounts that accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of their assets.  Section 13(b)(2)(B) requires registrants to devise and maintain a 
system of internal accounting controls that, among other things, provides reasonable assurance 
that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in 
conformity with GAAP.  Section 13(b)(5) provides that no person shall knowingly falsify any 
book, record, or account or circumvent internal controls.  Rule 13b2-l prohibits the falsification 
of any book, record, or account subject to Section 13(b)(2)(A). 

       12.     As a result of the conduct described above, Burke willfully violated Section 
13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-l thereunder, and willfully aided and abetted and 
caused Fischer’s violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. 

       13.     As a result of the conduct described above, Burke willfully violated Rule 13b2-2 
under the Exchange Act which prohibits a director or officer of an issuer from, among other 
things, directly or indirectly, making or causing to be made a materially false or misleading 
statement to an accountant in connection with any audit, review or examination of the financial 
statements of the issuer required to be made pursuant to Section 13(b)(2) of the Exchange Act. 

       14.     As a result of the conduct described above, Burke willfully violated Rule 13a-14 
under the Exchange Act which sets forth the requirements for certain reports filed under Section 

                                                4 

---------------------Page 5---------------------

13(a) of the Exchange Act to include specified certifications by each principal executive and 
principal financial officer of the issuer. 

                                           Findings  

       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Burke (a) willfully violated Section 
13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13b2-l, 13b2-2, and 13a-14 promulgated thereunder; and 
(b) willfully aided and abetted and caused Fischer’s violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-13 promulgated thereunder. 

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Burke’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     Burke shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13b2-l, 13b2-2, and 13a-14 
promulgated thereunder; and from causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 
13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-13 
promulgated thereunder. 

       B.     Burke is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant. 

       C.     After 36 months from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  

              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 

                      (a)    Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight  Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms  
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                                               5 

---------------------Page 6---------------------

                      (c)    Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      (d) Respondent acknowledges his       responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 

       D.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 

       By the Commission. 

 

                                                    Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                    Secretary 
 

                                                6 

---------------------Page 7---------------------

                                            Service List  
 
       Rule 141 of the Commission's Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or another 
duly authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order Instituting Public                                               
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to  Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making 
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order ("Order"), on the               
Respondent and his legal agent. 
 
       The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to 
notice:  
 
Honorable Brenda P. Murray                              
Chief Administrative Law Judge                       
Securities and Exchange Commission             
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-2557                      
                                                 
Zachary T. Carlyle, Esq.  
Denver Regional Office 
Securities and Exchange Commission 
1801 California Street, Suite 1500 
Denver, CO 80202                                    
 
Mr. Stephen Burke 
c/o David A. Zisser, Esq. 
Davis Graham & Stubbs LLP 
1550 Seventeenth St., Suite 500 
Denver, CO 80202 
 
David A. Zisser, Esq. 
Davis Graham & Stubbs LLP 
1550 Seventeenth St., Suite 500 
Denver, CO 80202                                                           
(Counsel for Stephen Burke)                    
      
 

                                                 7 

