---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                          the 

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 61516 / February 12, 2010 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3113 / February 12, 2010 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-13781 
                                            
                                             : 
                                           :       
                                           :        
              In the Matter of             :      ORDER INSTITUTING 
                                           :      ADMINISTRATIVE  PROCEEDINGS 
                                           :      PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
              Michael J. Byrd, CPA         :      COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                           :      MAKING FI     NDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
              Respondent.                  :      REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                      : 
                                                      : 
____________________________________ :              
                                                   
 
                                              I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Michael 
J. Byrd (“Respondent” or “Byrd”) pursuant to  Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1 
           
                                                

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent  
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
         
              1.      Byrd, age 49, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to 
practice in the State of California, and his license has lapsed.  From approximately May 1999 until 
May 2001, he served as Chief Financial Officer of Brocade Communications Systems, Inc. 
(“Brocade”), and then became Brocade’s Chief Operating Officer from  May 2001 until January 
2003. 
        
              2.      Brocade has been, at all relevant times, a Delaware corporation which 
develops and sells storage networking products, with its principal place of business in San Jose, 
California.  Since May 1999 when it completed its initial public offering of stock, Brocade had 
common stock registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and traded on the NASDAQ National Market.  
 
              3.      On August 17, 2007, the Commission filed a complaint against Byrd in the  
United States District Court for the Northern District of California.  SEC v. Byrd, No. C-07-4223-
CRB.  On February 3, 2010, the Court entered an order enjoining Byrd, by consent, from future 
violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Sections 
13(b)(5) and 16(a) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 13b2-1, 13b2-2, and 16a-3 thereunder, and 
from aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder.  Byrd was also ordered to pay 
disgorgement of $225,000 plus prejudgment interest thereon in the amount of $24,843, for a total 
amount of $249,843, and a  $175,000 civil money penalty. 
 
              4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Brocade 
concealed millions of dollars in expenses from investors and overstated its income through a  
scheme executed by its Chief Executive Officer to backdate employee stock options.  The 
complaint further alleged that at various times during his tenure at Brocade, Byrd was consulted 
on options grants, and, as a result, should have fully investigated to determine whether Brocade’s 
financial statements accurately reflected the necessary compensation expenses, as required under 
generally accepted accounting principles.   

                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

        
                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
       A.      Byrd is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
       B.      After three years from the date of this Order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (Attention: Office of the  
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                                1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
      
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                            (a) Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight     Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                       (b)    Respondent, or the registered   public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms  
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                (c)           Respondent has resolved all di  sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                       (d)    Respondent acknowledges      his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 
      
       C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume  
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
                                                 3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                                                M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                                          

                                                                     4
  
