---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                   STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                             the 

 SECURITIES                            AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  66353 / February 7, 2012 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No.  3366 / February 7, 2012 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-14754 
                                               
                                                : 
                                              :        
                                              :         
       In the Matter of                       :       ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                              :       PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
     SHAUN P. WHITELEY,                       :       102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                              :       PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
               Respondent.                    :       IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                         : 
                                                         : 
____________________________________ :                  
  
 
                                                 I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Shaun 
Whiteley (“Respondent” or “Whiteley”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules  
of Practice.1 
               
                                                   
                                                 II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest  and without preliminary hearing, may, by order, . . .  
suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has been by name . . . permanently   
enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the                                                             
Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of  
the rules and regulations thereunder.  
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent  
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
                          1. Symmetry Medical, Inc. (“Symmetry”), is a Delaware corporation 
headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana.   A manufactur er of medical implants and instruments as well 
as aerospace industry products, Symmetry’s subsidiaries include Symmetry Medical Sheffield 
LTD, f/k/a Thornton Precision Components, Limited (“TPC”).  Since 2003, TPC’s financial data 
has been consolidated into Symmetry’s financial statements filed with the Commission.  Since 
December 2004, Symmetry’s common stock has been registered with the Commission pursuant to  
Section 12(b) of the Exchange act and listed on the New York Stock Exchange.   
        
                          2. Whiteley, age 45 and a citizen of the United Kingdom, was employed as a 
management accountant at TPC from 1997 to October 2006.  Whiteley returned to TPC to assist 
with TPC’s quarterly inventories in December 2006, March 2007 and June 2007.  
 
              3.      On February 1, 2012, a final judgment was entered by consent against 
Whiteley, permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the  
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rules 10b-5 and 13b2-1 thereunder, and 
from aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange 
Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13, in the civil action styled, Securities and Exchange 
Commission v. Shaun Whiteley, et al. (“SEC v. Whiteley  ”) (Civil Action No. 3:12cv60), in the 
United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana.   
 
               4.     The Commission’s complaint in SEC v. Whiteley    alleged, among other 
 things, that as a management accountant at TPC, Whiteley was responsible for TPC’s stock 
 valuations and oversaw TPC’s physical inventories; that, between at least 2003 and June 2007, 
 Whiteley knowingly participated in TPC’s manipulation of its financial accounts; that these 
 manipulations included pre-booking sales revenues, booking fictitious sales revenues, 
 understating cost of revenues, and creating fictitious work-in-process inventories; that Whiteley 
 knew (i) that the foregoing manipulations did not conform to US Generally Accepted  
 Accounting Principles, (i) that the foregoing manipulations materially impacted TPC’s financial 
 statements, (iii) that TPC’s financial statements were consolidated into Symmetry’s financial 
 statements and (iv) that Symmetry was a US publicly traded company; and that Whiteley took 
 significant steps to deceive Symmetry’s internal and external auditors concerning the foregoing 
 manipulations, including (i) falsification of TPC’s inventory listing to provide apparent support  

                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 for TPC’s manipulated inventory counts and (ii) falsely stating that certain documents were not 
 available. 
 
                                                                       IV. 
                                                                          
           In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Whiteley’s Offer.  
 
           Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that Whiteley is suspended 
from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant.   
 
 By the Commission.                       
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                                                    M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                                              
 

                                                                        3
  
