---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                      
                                           
                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 63560 / December 16, 2010 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No.  3218 / December 16, 2010 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-13150 

                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Alvin L. Dahl, CPA  
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                          
        

       On August 28, 2008, Alvin L. Dahl, CPA (“Dahl”) was suspended from appearing or 
practicing before the Commission as an accountant as a result of settled public administrative 
proceedings instituted by the Commission against Dahl pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the 
Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                 Dahl consented to the entry of the order without admitting or 
denying the findings therein but for the Commission’s finding that a final judgment and 
permanent injunction and other relief had been previously entered against him.  This order is 
issued in response to Dahl’s application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the 
Commission as an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements 
required to be filed with the Commission. 

              The Commission’s complaint alleged that Dahl, while serving as Chief Financial Officer, 
aided and abetted 21st
                     Century Technologies, Inc.’s (“21st
                                                       Century”) violations of Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) Section 13(a) and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 
thereunder when he prepared 21st
                                Century’s false and misleading Form 10-K for 2003 and Forms 
10-Q for the first and second quarters of 2004. The complaint further alleged that Dahl violated 
Exchange Act Rule 13a-14 when he certified that those filings were complete and accurate, even 
though they contained material omissions concerning certain of 21st
                                                                 Century’s reported 
investments. The complaint alleged, among other things, that Dahl knew at the time he certified 
certain filings that (i) a supposed “commercial loan” was actually a loan to prevent a foreclosure 
on a personal residence; and (ii) the recipient of another loan was misidentified in 21st
                                                                                  Century’s 
                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2869 dated August 28, 2008.  Dahl was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after 12 months upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                     

filings with the Commission in order to avoid potential stigma from association with the entity 
that received the loan, which was involved in pornography.   
 
       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Dahl 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Dahl is not, at this time, seeking to appear or 
practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume 
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be 
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Dahl’s 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Dahl, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the August 28, 2008 order denying 
him the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 
and that Dahl, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in his 
practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 
        
        
        
        
        
        
        

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
 

                                                 2
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                                

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Alvin L. Dahl, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                             
                                             
                                            Elizabeth M. Murphy  
                                            Secretary  
                                             

                                               3
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                                                                            

                                      SERVICE LIST 
 
Alvin L. Dahl, CPA 
c/o Wayne M. Secore, Esq. 
Secore & Waller, L.L.P. 
Four Forest Plaza 
12222 Merit Drive, Suite 1350 
Dallas, TX 75251 
 
Wayne M. Secore, Esq. 
Secore & Waller, L.L.P. 
Four Forest Plaza 
12222 Merit Drive, Suite 1350 
Dallas, TX 75251 
Counsel for Respondent 
                                           

                                             4
