---------------------Page 1---------------------

                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
 before                                           the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 63262 / November 5, 2010 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3208 / November 5, 2010 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14111 
                                             
      :  
 :                                                   
 :                                                    
   In the Matter of                         :             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                   :             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
          Nicholas A. R. Dunning, ACA,             : 102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                   :             PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
  Respondent.                             :     IMPO      SING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                          :      
                                          :      
____________________________________ :              
 
 
                                               I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
Nicholas A. R. Dunning (“Respondent” or “Dunning”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice. 1
                                   

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
                     1.           Dunning, age 47, is and has been a non-practicing Qualified Chartered 
Accountant in the United Kingdom.  He served as Dell Inc.’s Vice President of Finance in the 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa segment (“EMEA”) from 2001 to early 2004, Vice President of 
Marketing for EMEA’s Home & Small Business (“HSB”) business unit in 2004, and HSB’s Vice 
President and General Manager from 2004 until leaving the company in February 2007. 
        
                     2.           Dell was, at all relevant times, a Delaware corporation with its principal 
place of business in Round Rock, Texas.  Dell is engaged in the business of providing electronic 
products, including mobility products, desktop PCs, software, peripherals, servers, networking 
equipment, and storage.  Dell also offers services, including infrastructure technology, consulting 
and applications, and business process services.  At all relevant times, Dell’s common stock was 
registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Exchange Act”), and was quoted on the NASDAQ National Market System. 
 
                     3.           On October 13, 2010, a final judgment was entered against Dunning, 
permanently enjoining him, by consent, from future violations of Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange 
Act and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder, and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) 
and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder, in the civil 
action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Dell Inc., et al., Civil Action Number 1:10-
cv-01245-RJL, in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia.  Dunning was also 
ordered to pay $1 in disgorgement and a $50,000 civil money penalty. 
 
                            4.           The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Dunning 
 engaged in improper accounting which resulted in Dell filing materially false and misleading 
 financial statements in the company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal years ended 
 January 31, 2003 and January 30, 2004, and in the company’s quarterly reports on Form 10-Q 
 for the third quarter of fiscal year 2003 and the first two quarters of fiscal year 2004.  The 
 Complaint alleged that Dunning circumvented Dell’s system of internal accounting controls and 
 falsified books, records, or accounts.  The Complaint alleged further that Dunning aided and 

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 abetted improper accounting practices that materially misstated Dell’s consolidated, and the 
 EMEA segment’s, annual and quarterly operating income in departure from Generally Accepted 
 Accounting Principles.  These practices included, among other things, creating, maintaining, and 
 releasing restructuring reserves, general reserves and other improper accruals, circumventing 
 Dell’s system of internal controls, and falsifying books, records, and accounts.  Dunning 
 consented to entry of the judgment without admitting or denying the allegations of the 
 complaint.  
 
                                                 IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Dunning’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
              A.          Dunning is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
              B.          After 3 years from the date of this Order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such an 
application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company for 
which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                                         (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Respondent, or the registered                         public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of 
or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision;                              

   (c) Respondent has resolved all di                          sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 

                                                  3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

   (d) Respondent acknowledges his re                                        sponsibility, as long as Respondent 
appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards. 
      
         C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his status as an accountant is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable board of 
accountancy.  However, if resolution of any disciplinary action by a board of accountancy is 
dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an application 
on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to 
the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, 
professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth M. Murphy 
       Secretary 

                                                            4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 
                                         Service List 
 
              Rule 141 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or another 
duly authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order Instituting 
Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), on the Respondent and his legal 
agent. 
 
              The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to 
notice: 
 
Honorable Brenda P. Murray 
Chief Administrative Law Judge 
Securities and Exchange Commission 
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-2557 
 
Ian Rupell, Esq. 
Division of Enforcement 
Securities and Exchange Commission 
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-5561 
 
Mr. Nicholas A. R. Dunning 
c/o F. Joseph Warin, Esq. 
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP 
1050 Connecticut Avenue, N.W. 
Washington, DC 20036-5306 
 
F. Joseph Warin, Esq. 
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP 
1050 Connecticut Avenue, N.W. 
Washington, DC 20036-5306 
(Counsel for Nicholas A. R. Dunning) 
 

                                              5 
