---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                 STATES OF AMERICA 
 before                                           the 
 SECURITIES                          AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 63743 / January 20, 2011 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3233 / January 20, 2011 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14201
                                              
      :  
 :                                                   
 :                                                    
               In the Matter of              :             ORDER INSTITUTING 
                :                                   ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                   :             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
                            ERIC J. BUR, CPA,               :             102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES  
                                          :     OF PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS,  
            Respondent.                  :     AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL  
                                          :     SANCTIONS  
____________________________________ :              
                                                     
 
                                               I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Eric J. 
Bur (“Respondent” or “Bur”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1
            
                                                 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
                                                1 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3. below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
                     1.           Bur, age 49, was licensed to practice as a CPA in North Carolina starting in 
1987, until that license was forfeited in 1988.  He was also licensed to practice as a CPA in Missouri 
starting in 1988, and in Kansas starting in 1994, but these licenses lapsed.  Bur’s certificate status in 
Kansas is currently active.  He served as Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) of NIC Inc. (“NIC”) from 
April 2001, until June 2007.  Bur also was a member of NIC’s disclosure committee. 
        
        2. NIC, Inc.            was, at all relevant times, a Colorado corporation with its 
principal place of business in Kansas.  NIC was engaged in the business of developing and 
managing web sites, online services, and secure payment processing systems for state, local, and 
federal government agencies.  At all relevant times, NIC’s common stock was registered under 
Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and traded on the 
NASDAQ Global Select Market. 
 
                     3.           On January 12, 2011, the Commission filed a complaint against Bur in 
Securities and Exchange Commission v. NIC Inc., et al., Civil No. 2:11-cv-02016 (EFM-JPO) (D. 
Kansas). On January 18, 2011, the court entered a final judgment permanently enjoining Bur, by 
consent, from future violations of Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 13b2-1, and aiding and abetting 
violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B), and 14(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 
12b-20, 13a-1, 14a-3, and 14a-9 thereunder.  Bur was also ordered to pay a $75,000 civil money 
penalty. 
        
  4. The Commission’s Co                    mplaint alleged, among other things, that NIC’s 
former CEO (the “CEO”) received more than $1.18 million in undisclosed perquisites from at least 
2002 to 2007.  The Complaint alleged that Bur, NIC’s CFO and a member of NIC’s disclosure 
committee, had responsibility, along with NIC’s Chief Accounting Officer, for NIC’s internal 
controls, books and records, and executive compensation disclosures in public filings.  The 
Complaint alleged that Bur was informed that the CEO was not submitting documentation 
supporting a business purpose for his expenses as required by NIC’s policies.  The Complaint 
alleged that a subordinate raised concerns to Bur that some of the CEO’s expenses were not 

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

business related.  The Complaint alleged that Bur permitted NIC to pay the CEO’s expenses, which 
caused NIC’s books, records and accounts to falsely characterize the CEO’s perquisites as business 
expenses.  In addition, the Complaint alleged that Bur was aware of the Commission’s rules 
requiring the disclosure of perquisites in proxy statements and annual reports, yet he reviewed, 
signed, and/or certified NIC’s filings with the Commission for 2002 through 2006, which failed to 
disclose the CEO’s perquisites and contained false statements concerning the CEO’s 
compensation.   
 
                                                 IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Bur’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
              A.          Bur is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
              B.          After one year from the date of this Order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                                         (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight      Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Respondent, or the registered                           public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that that inspection did not identify any 
criticisms of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that 
would indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

   (c) Respondent has resolved all di                          sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 

                                                  3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

   (d) Respondent acknowledges                                    his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
 
        C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant provided that 
his state CPA license is current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the 
applicable state boards of accountancy.  The Commission will consider an application by 
Respondent to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as a preparer or 
reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, of any public company’s 
financial statements that are filed with the Commission provided that his state CPA license 
or certificate is current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable 
state boards of accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by 
the Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth M. Murphy 
       Secretary 

                                                       4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                            Service List 
 
              Rule 141 of the Commission's Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or another duly 
authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order Instituting Administrative 
Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and 
Imposing Remedial Sanctions ("Order"), on the Respondent and his legal agent. 
 
              The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to 
notice: 
 
Honorable Brenda P. Murray                               
Chief Administrative Law Judge                         
Securities and Exchange Commission  
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-2557                                                   
 
Lisa Weinstein Deitch, Esq.                                 
Securities and Exchange Commission  
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-5720                                                   
      
Eric J. Bur                                     
c/o Eugene I. Goldman, Esq. 
McDermott Will & Emery 
600 13th Street, N.W. 
Washington, DC 20005-3096 
 
Eugene I. Goldman, Esq. 
McDermott Will & Emery 
600 13th Street, N.W. 
Washington, DC 20005-3096 
(Counsel for Eric J. Bur) 
 

                                                  5 
