---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                  STATES OF AMERICA 
 before                                            the 
 SECURITIES                           AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 63928 / February 18, 2011 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3244 / February 18, 2011 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14268
                                              
      :  
 :                                                    
 :                                                     
              In the Matter of               :             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                           : PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
  JOANNE KLINE,                : 102(e)                     OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                           :     PRACTICE,         MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
            Respondent.                  :     IMPO         SING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                           :      
                                           :      
____________________________________ :              
                                                      
 
                                                I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Joanne 
Kline (“Respondent” or “Kline”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1
            
                                                  
                                                  
                                                  

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
                     1.           Kline, age 48, has been a certified public accountant licensed to practice in 
the State of Arizona since April 1993, but her license was suspended in November 2010.  She 
served as the controller of NutraCea, Inc. (“NutraCea”) from March 2007 to June 2009. 
        
                     2.           NutraCea is a California corporation with its principal executive offices 
located in Phoenix, Arizona and is engaged in the business of manufacturing health food products.  
NutraCea’s common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and trades on the OTC:BB under the symbol 
“NTRZ”. 
 
                     3.           On January 13, 2011, the Commission filed a complaint against Kline in 
SEC v. NutraCea, et al. (Civil Action No. CV 11-0092-PHX-SRB).  On February 14, 2011, the 
court entered an order permanently enjoining Kline, by consent, from future violations of Section 
13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder, and aiding and abetting 
violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 
13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder.  Kline was also ordered to pay a $25,000 civil money penalty. 
 
                     4.           The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that NutraCea, 
through the misconduct of Kline and others, overstated its sales revenues for the second and third 
quarters of fiscal year 2007 and its fiscal year 2007 by booking false sales and engaging in 
improper revenue recognition practices.  The complaint alleged that Kline violated the books and 
records and internal controls provisions of the federal securities laws because she knew that 
NutraCea improperly accounted for a $2.6 million sale in the second quarter of 2007 and a $1.9 
million sale in the fourth quarter of 2007.  The complaint further alleged that Kline also signed 
false management representation letters to NutraCea’s auditors. 
        
        
        

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                 IV. 
                                                    
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Kline’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.     Kline is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
              B.          After one year from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider her reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                           1.           a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in her practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which she works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as she practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
                            2.          an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                                         (a)         Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which she is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight       Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
   (b) Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which 
she is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any 
criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that 
would indicate that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

   (c) Respondent has resolved all di                          sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
   (d) Respondent acknowledges                              her responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
 
 
 

                                                  3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

          C.       The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that her state CPA license is 
current and she has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth M. Murphy 
       Secretary 

                                                                   4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                               Service List 
 
              Rule 141 of the Commission's Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or another duly 
authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order Instituting Administrative 
Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and 
Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), on the Respondent and her legal agent. 
 
              The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to 
notice: 
 
Honorable Brenda P. Murray                               
Chief Administrative Law Judge                         
Securities and Exchange Commission  
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-2557                         
                                                    
Spencer E. Bendell, Esq.                                       
Los Angeles Regional Office                               
Securities and Exchange Commission                
5670 Wilshire Blvd., 11th Floor                   
Los Angeles, CA 90036                                
     
Ms. Joanne Kline    
c/o Maureen Beyers, Esq.                                      
Osborn Maledon 
2929 N. Central Avenue 
Twenty-First Floor 
Phoenix, AZ 85012 
                                       
Maureen Beyers, Esq.                              
Osborn Maledon 
2929 N. Central Avenue 
Twenty-First Floor 
Phoenix, AZ 85012 
(Counsel for Joanne Kline) 
 

                                                     5 
