---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED                             STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                      the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 61833 / April 2, 2010 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3124 / April 2, 2010 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13843 
 
                                              ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
In the Matter of                             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO SECTION 
                                             21C OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
      MICHAEL DEGENNARO                      OF 1934, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                             IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER  
Respondent. 
 
 
 
 
                                                
 
                                          I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Michael DeGennaro (“DeGennaro” or 
“Respondent”).   
                                            
                                          II. 
 
              In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making 
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 

 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               III. 
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1
                                                                                  that:  
        
       1.           DeGennaro, age 44, resides in Long Island, New York.  DeGennaro at all relevant 
times was Senior Vice President of Finance of Symbol Technologies, Inc. (“Symbol”).   
        
       2.           Symbol was at all relevant times (a) a Delaware corporation with principal offices 
in Holtsville, New York; (b) engaged in the design, manufacture, marketing and servicing of 
mobile information systems using bar code scanners and similar devices; and (c) a public company 
whose common stock was traded on the New York Stock Exchange and registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act.  On January 9, 2007, Symbol was 
acquired by Motorola, Inc. 
        
       3.           As described below, Symbol violated the financial recordkeeping and internal 
control provisions of Section 13(b)(2) of the Exchange Act due to its failure to maintain the 
requisite accounting records and implement adequate internal accounting controls. 2
                                                                                   
        
       4.           In 2000 and 2001, Symbol created and used certain restructuring charges and 
related reserves in contravention of GAAP.  As a result, Symbol misstated, inter alia, its operating 
expenses and net income on its books and records and in its financial statements. 
        
       5.           During the relevant period, Symbol recorded non-recurring charges in connection 
with, inter alia, Symbol’s: (i) acquisition of Telxon Corporation, which resulted in a $185.9 
million restructuring charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2000; and (ii) Symbol’s relocation of 
manufacturing operations to new facilities, which resulted in a $59.7 million restructuring charge 
recorded in the third quarter of 2001 (collectively the “Charges”). The Charges were later reversed, 
in part, because they did not comply with GAAP.  Symbol also incorrectly used certain reserves 
created in conjunction with some of the Charges.  The Charges and certain associated reserves 
were not recorded in accordance with GAAP because, inter alia, they misclassified certain 
expenses, included amounts unrelated to the purpose of the Charge and, in some cases, were used 
in later periods for unrelated purposes.   
        

                                                 
1
         The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and 
are not binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
2
             Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires registrants to make and keep books, 
records and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and 
dispositions of assets.  Section 13(b)(2)(B) requires registrants to devise and maintain a system 
of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions are 
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and to maintain accountability for assets.  
 
                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

        6.      As Senior Vice President of Finance at Symbol, DeGennaro was one of the Symbol 
executives who determined how Symbol accounted for and recorded transactions on its books and 
records and in its financial statements.  As such, DeGennaro was one of the Symbol executives 
who had responsibility for implementing internal accounting controls at Symbol, the purpose of 
which controls was to provide reasonable assurances that relevant transactions were recorded as 
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP.  DeGennaro, 
together with others, determined how the Charges were recorded and accounted for on Symbol’s 
internal books and records and in its financial statements.  DeGennaro failed to take requisite steps 
to ensure that Symbol’s internal books and records and financial statements accurately reflected 
each element of the Charges and the uses of associated reserves, and that the Charges and the uses 
of associated reserves were accounted for in accordance with GAAP. 
         
        7.           By reason of the foregoing, DeGennaro was a cause of Symbol’s violations of 
Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. 
         
          
 
                                                     IV. 
                                                       
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent DeGennaro’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, 
Respondent DeGennaro cease and desist from causing any violations and any future violations of 
Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth M. Murphy 
       Secretary 
 

                                                      3 
