---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                   UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                                  the 

                         SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 61149 / December 10, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3078 / December 10, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13711 
 
                                                   
                                                  : 
                                                   :  
        In the Matter of                          :        ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                  :        ADMINISTRATIVE                                   PROCEEDINGS 
        Gregory Pasko, CPA                        :        PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                  :        COMMISSION’S               RULES OF
 Respondent.                                      :        PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                                  :        IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                  :  
____________________________________ :        
 
                                                       I.  
 
        The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Gregory 
Pasko, CPA, (“Respondent” or “Pasko”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1 
             
 
                                                      II.  
 
        In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer of  
Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of  
                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
        The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or 
her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the 
violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to 
the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings  
contained in paragraph three of Section III  below, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the 
entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as 
set forth below.   
 
                                               III.  
 
              On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
        
        1.            Gregory Pasko, age 43, was the Director of External Reporting of SafeNet,  
Inc., from January 2005 through May 2005.  Since 1995, Pasko has been licensed as a Certified 
Public Accountant in the state of Maryland.  

              2.      SafeNet, Inc. (“SafeNet” or the “Company”)  is a Delaware corporation, with 
its headquarters in Belcamp, Maryland.  SafeNet produces information security software products.  
During the relevant period, the Company’s common stock was registered with the Commission 
pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”)  and listed on the 
NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol “SFNT.”  In April 2007, SafeNet was taken private by 
Vector Capital Corporation. 
 
               3.     On November 12, 2009, the Commission filed a complaint against Pasko in 
SEC v. SafeNet, Inc., et. al., Civil Case No. 09-2117 (D.D.C).  On December 2, 2009, the court 
entered a final judgment permanently enjoining Pasko, by consent, from future violations of 
Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933, and Rules 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 under the 
Exchange Act, and from aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and  
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder.  The 
final judgment ordered Pasko to pay a civil penalty of $15,000.   
        
              4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged that, from the third quarter of 2004 
through the second quarter of 2005, SafeNet, through the conduct of its former employees, 
engaged in a scheme to assist SafeNet in meeting or exceeding quarterly earnings per share targets 
through the use of improper accounting adjustments.  The complaint alleged that Pasko and others  
made, or caused others to make, certain improper accounting adjustments in SafeNet’s books and 
records.  The complaint also alleged that, as a result of these inappropriate adjustments, SafeNet’s 
periodic reports, registration statements, and press releases contained materially misstated 
financial results and materially false and misleading information concerning SafeNet’s financial 
condition. 
 
 
 
                                               IV. 
                                                  

                                                  
                                                2 

---------------------Page 3---------------------

        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Pasko’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
       A.      Pasko is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
       B.      After one year from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the  
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the  
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                                1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such an 
application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
        2.             an independent accountant. Such   an application must further satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                            (a) Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight      Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                       (b)     Respondent, or the registered  public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of 
or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that 
the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                (c)            Respondent has resolved all di sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                       (d)     Respondent acknowledges his re    sponsibility, as long as Respondent 
appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews, and quality control standards.   
 
       C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume  
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current  
and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, 
the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review 
may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters 
                                                    
                                                  3 

---------------------Page 4---------------------

relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear 
or practice before the Commission. 
 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          M.                Murphy
       Secretary                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4 

