---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                                  UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                                 Before the 
                         SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 64808 / July 5, 2011 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3300 / July 5, 2011 
 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14451 
 
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
In the Matter of                                         ORDER INSTITUTING   
                                                         ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
        Lawrence Collins  ,  CPA                         PURSUANT TO  RULE 102(e)   OF THE 
                                                         COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
Respondent.                                            
                                                                                         
                                                         
                                                          
 
                                                      I. 
 
        The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
Lawrence Collins (“Respondent”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
         1
Practice.  
 

                                                   
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:     
 
        The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by na  me . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the r      ules and regulations 
thereunder.  
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
                                               II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3. below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below 
 
 
                                               III. 
 
       On the basis of  this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
        
               1.     Respondent, age 61, a resident of Maine, was hired by Cabletron Systems, 
Inc. (“Cabletron”) and thereafter Enterasys Networks, Inc. (“Enterasys”) and worked in the finance 
department from March 2000 through December 2001.  Respondent was licensed as a certified 
public accountant (“CPA”) in Maine from 1984 through 1987.       
                               
               2.     At all relevant times, Cabletron was a Delaware corporation with its 
principal place of business in Rochester, New Hampshire.  Cabletron was a holding company that 
provided worldwide telecommunications and networking services and products through four 
operating subsidiaries, including Enterasys.  Cabletron’s common stock was registered pursuant to 
Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”).  The company filed 
annual, quarterly, and current reports with the Commission on Forms 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K, 
respectively.  At all relevant times, Cabletron stock was traded on the New York Stock Exchange.  
On August 6, 2001 Cabletron was merged into Enterasys and Cabletron ceased to exist.         
                
               3.     On February 9, 2007, the Commission filed its complaint against 
Respondent in the United States District Court for New Hampshire (Civil Action No. 1:07-cv-
00039).  An Amended Complaint was filed on October 15, 2008.  On June 24, 2011, the court 
entered an order permanently enjoining Collins, by consent, from future violations of Sections 
17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act  and 
Rule 13b2-1, thereunder.  By consent, the court further ordered that Respondent pay $12,000 in 
disgorgement; $2,443.54 in prejudgment interest; and a $10,000 civil money penalty.   
                
               4.      The Commission’s amended complaint alleged, among other things, that 
Respondent and others at Cabletron and Enterasys reported revenues of the companies that did not 
qualify as revenue under generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), while representing 
to the public that the companies reported revenue according to GAAP.  The conduct hid from the 

                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
investing public the true financial state of the company by filing materially false and misleading 
statements in the company’s annual reports on Forms 10-K, quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q, and 
current reports on Forms 8-K for fiscal years 2001 and 2002.   
        
                
                                                IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:   
 
               A.   Respondent is suspended from appearing or practicing before the  
Commission as an accountant.   
                    
               B.  After two (2) years from the date of this Order, Respondent may request 
that the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office 
of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
               1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such an 
application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company for 
which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                       (a)    Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                       (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of 
or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                       (c)    Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                       (d)    Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Respondent 
appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 

                                                 3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
      
               C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to  
resume appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, 
the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review 
may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters 
relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear 
or practice before the Commission. 
        
 
       By the Commission. 
 
                                                      Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                      Secretary 
 
 
 

                                                 4  
