---------------------Page 1---------------------

 

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                      Before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 64776 / June 30, 2011 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT                  
Release No.  3297 / June 30, 2011 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14447                                         
 
 
                                                 
                                      : 
      In the Matter of                :    ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
                                      :    DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
      LABARGE, INC.                   :    SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                      :    EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING 
      Respondent.                     :    FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE-
                                      :    AND-DESIST ORDER AND A PENALTY 
                                      : 
                                                 

                                          I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against LaBarge, Inc. (“LaBarge” or 
“Respondent”). 

                                          II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting 
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order and a Penalty (“Order”), as set forth 
below. 

                                                                                        
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                  

                                               III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 

                                            Summary 

       From January 2006 through March 2007, LaBarge did not keep accurate books and 
records or implement and maintain sufficient internal controls regarding its use of estimates of 
completion costs for certain long-term production contracts.  LaBarge used these estimates to 
determine its cost of sales and net earnings, which it disclosed in the periodic reports that it filed 
with the Commission.  LaBarge’s internal controls lapses and inaccurate books and records 
resulted in LaBarge filing certain inaccurate periodic reports in 2006 and 2007.  As a result, 
LaBarge violated Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 
12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder. 

                                           Respondent 

       1.      LaBarge, Inc., a Delaware corporation headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri, 
designs and manufactures electronics components for use in military, aviation, and other 
industrial equipment.  LaBarge’s common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to 
Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act, and its preferred stock purchase rights are registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act.  LaBarge’s common stock trades on 
the American Stock Exchange.  LaBarge’s fiscal year ends on the Sunday closest to June 30.   

                                              Facts 

       2.      As a public company, LaBarge is required to fairly, accurately, and timely report 
its financial results and condition.  To ensure fair and accurate reports, the federal securities laws 
and the Commission’s regulations require public companies, such as LaBarge, to prepare and 
present their reports and financial statements in conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles (“GAAP”).  Financial statements filed with the Commission that are not prepared in 
                                                                      1
accordance with GAAP are presumed to be misleading or inaccurate.        LaBarge   represented in 
its Commission filings that its financial statements complied with GAAP.    

       3.      LaBarge’s estimates of completion costs for certain long-term production 
contracts have a significant effect on its financial results.  During 2006 and 2007, four of 
LaBarge’s six plants manufactured pursuant to long-term production contracts.  These plants, 
referred to as the CAS plants within LaBarge, generated as much as two-thirds of LaBarge’s 
reported revenue and net earnings during 2006 and 2007.  Consistent with GAAP, LaBarge 
utilizes the units-of-delivery variation of the percentage-of-completion method when 
                                                                                          2
determining the cost of goods sold and gross profits to recognize on long-term contracts.     This 
                                                  
1
 Regulation S-X, 17 C.F.R. 210.4-01(a)(1). 
2
 FASB Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 605-35 (including the former American 
Institute of Certified Public Accountants’ Statement of Position 81-1, “Accounting for Performance of 
Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type Contracts”).   

                                                 2                                                  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                  

requires LaBarge to periodically make reasonably dependable and accurate estimates concerning 
the remaining costs needed to complete each long-term contract.  GAAP requires LaBarge to 
                                                                 3
recognize changes in these estimates when they become known.        If the remaining completion 
costs are underestimated, the costs of goods sold will generally be underreported (and vice 
versa).        

       4.      LaBarge acknowledged the importance of these estimates to its reported financial 
results in its annual statements and the notes to its financial statements.  For example, LaBarge 
explained that, “For contracts accounted for using the percentage of completion method, 
management’s estimates of material, labor and overhead costs on long-term contracts are critical 
to the Company.”     

       5.      In 2006 and 2007, the personnel at each of the CAS plants prepared estimates of 
completion costs for the long-term contracts in production at each plant.  The plant personnel 
prepared these estimates at completion (referred to within LaBarge as “EACs”) in Excel 
spreadsheets outside of LaBarge’s accounting system and then manually entered the results into 
LaBarge’s centralized accounting system from which LaBarge generated its financial statements.  
The accuracy of LaBarge’s financial statements depended on the plant personnel accurately 
calculating reasonable EACs and then timely entering them into the accounting system without 
error.   

       6.        In 2006 and 2007, LaBarge did not have adequate internal controls to ensure that 
the plant personnel calculated EACs correctly, updated EACs on a timely basis, or documented 
the reasons supporting changes made to EACs.  LaBarge also did not have adequate internal 
controls to ensure that plant personnel correctly entered EAC information into the accounting 
system.  Further, LaBarge did not provide the plant personnel with sufficient guidance regarding 
when an initial EAC had to be completed on a contract.   

       7.      LaBarge also did not comply with its internal controls in 2006 and 2007.  For 
example, on multiple occasions, including the second quarter of fiscal year 2007, plant personnel 
did not hold mandatory meetings to update and review EACs and/or did not document decisions 
made at those meetings.  On other occasions, plant personnel did not recognize cumulative catch-
up adjustments necessitated by changes to EACs.  LaBarge often did not detect these lapses 
because it did not sufficiently verify compliance with its internal controls.            

       8.      Because LaBarge did not implement adequate internal controls and sufficiently 
enforce or verify compliance with its existing internal controls, its plant personnel entered EACs 
into the accounting system that were inaccurate and/or were not supported by contemporaneous 
documentation.  As a result, LaBarge misstated its financial statements for the second quarter of 
fiscal year 2006.  Specifically, LaBarge reported net earnings for the second quarter of fiscal 
year 2006 of $2,663,000, which were overstated by as much as $193,000 or 7.8%.  LaBarge filed 
these financial statements with the Commission in its periodic reports throughout its fiscal year 
2006.   

                                                 
3
 FASB ASC Topic 605-35; Codification of Staff Accounting Bulletins, Topic 13(A)(4)(b).   

                                                3                                                   
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                                 

       9.     Because LaBarge did not implement adequate internal controls and sufficiently 
enforce or verify compliance with its internal controls, its plant personnel did not make changes 
to EACs on a timely basis.  As a result, LaBarge misstated its financial statements for the second 
quarter of fiscal year 2007.  Specifically, LaBarge reported net earnings for the second quarter of 
fiscal year 2007 of $3,197,000, which were overstated by as much as $244,000 or 8.3%.  
LaBarge filed these financial statements with the Commission in its periodic reports throughout 
its fiscal year 2007.   

                                           Violations 
 
       10.    LaBarge filed materially inaccurate reports with the Commission as described 
above.  As a result, LaBarge violated Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13 
and 12b-20 thereunder, which require every issuer of a security registered pursuant to Section 12 
of the Exchange Act to file with the Commission information, documents, and periodic reports as 
the Commission may require, and mandate that periodic reports contain such further material 
information as may be necessary to make the required statements not misleading.  

       11.    LaBarge did not implement and maintain adequate internal controls relating to its 
cost estimates for long-term contracts as described above.  As a result, LaBarge violated Section 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, which requires all reporting companies to devise and maintain 
a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles.   

       12.    LaBarge did not maintain contemporaneous documentation supporting its changes 
to cost estimates on long-term contracts and it failed to keep books and records that accurately 
reflected its assets as described above.  As a result, LaBarge violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the 
Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to make and keep books, records, and 
accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their transactions and 
dispositions of their assets. 

                                               IV. 

 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 

 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 

 
       A.      Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent LaBarge, Inc. cease and 
desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 
promulgated thereunder.        

                                                                                     

                                                4                                                 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                                

       B.     Pursuant to Section 21B of the Exchange Act, Respondent LaBarge, Inc. shall, 
within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money penalty in the amount of $200,000 to 
the United States Treasury.  If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue 
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717.  Payment shall be: (A) made by wire transfer, United States postal 
money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check or bank money order; (B) made payable to 
the Securities and Exchange Commission; (C) hand-delivered or mailed to the Securities and 
Exchange Commission, Office of Financial Management, 100 F St., NE, Stop 6042, Washington, 
DC 20549; and (D) submitted under cover letter that identifies LaBarge, Inc. as a Respondent in 
these proceedings, the file number of these proceedings, a copy of which cover letter and money 
order or check shall be sent to Robert Burson, Senior Associate Regional Director, Chicago 
Regional Office, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 175 W. 
Jackson Blvd., Suite 900, Chicago, IL 60604.  

       By the Commission. 

        

                                            Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                            Secretary 
 

 

                                               5                                                
