---------------------Page 1---------------------

 

                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No.  64382 / May 3, 2011 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No.  3275 / May 3, 2011 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-12251 

                           
                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Aron R. Carr, CPA  
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                           
        

       On March 30, 2006, Aron R. Carr, CPA (“Carr”) was denied the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before the Commission as an accountant as a result of settled public administrative 
proceedings instituted by the Commission against Carr pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the 
                               1
Commission's Rules of Practice.    Carr  consented to the entry of the order without admitting or 
denying the findings therein.  This order is issued in response to Carr’s application for 
reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant responsible for the 
preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed with the Commission. 

       The Commission found that Carr engaged in improper professional conduct within the 
meaning or Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice while serving as a senior 
auditor on the FY 2002 audit of Tenet Healthcare Corporation (“Tenet”) performed by KPMG 
LLP.  Specifically, by modifying and creating workpapers without appropriate supplemental 
documentation after the issuance of the audit report, Carr engaged in highly unreasonable 
conduct that resulted in a violation of applicable professional standards in circumstances in 
which he knew, or should have know, that heightened scrutiny was warranted. 
 
       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Carr attests 
that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of any 
company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 

                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2405 dated March 30, 2006.  Carr was permitted, pursuant 
to the order, to apply for reinstatement after three years upon making certain showings. 

 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                     

practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Carr is not, at this time, seeking to appear or 
practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume 
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be 
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Carr’s 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
                                                          2
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”   This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Carr, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the March 30, 2006 order denying him 
the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 
and that Carr, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in his 
practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Aron R. Carr, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                               
                                               
                                              Elizabeth M. Murphy  
                                              Secretary  

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
 

                                                 2 
