---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                              STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                       the 

 SECURITIES                       AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 66051 / December 23 2011 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3350/ December 23, 2011 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14675 
 
                                               
      In the Matter of                        ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                              PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) 
          CRAIG ON (CPA),                     OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                              PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
      Respondent.                             IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS  
       
 
 
                                            I.  
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest  that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Craig 
On (“Respondent” or “On”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.1 
                                                                                           
                                              
                                           II.  
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent  

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, … suspend from appearing or practicing before it any … accountant … who has 
been by name … permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
              1.      Craig On, age 59, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to 
practice in the State of California.  He served as Interim Chief Financial Officer of UCBH Holdings, 
Inc. (“UCBH”) from May 2008 until October 2008 and Chief Financial Officer from October 2008  
until November 2009. 
        
              2.      UCBH was, at all relevant times,  a Delaware corporation with its principal 
place of business in San Francisco, California.  UCBH was a holding company for subsidiary  
United Commercial Bank, a California state-chartered bank.  At all relevant times, UCBH’s  
common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. 
 
              3.      On December 14,   2011, a final judgment was entered against On, 
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the 
Securities Act of 1933, Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act  and Rules 13a-14, 13b2-1 and 13b2-
2 thereunder, and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of 
the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-11 thereunder, in the civil action entitled 
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Thomas S. Wu, et al., Civil Action No. 11-CV-4988-
JSW, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California.  On was also 
ordered to pay a $150,000 civil money penalty. 
        
              4.      The Commission’  s Complaint alleged, among other things, that On failed to 
ensure the accuracy of the financial statements in the UCBH annual report on Form 10-K for the 
fiscal year ended December 31, 2008.  The Complaint alleged that UCBH’s 2008 Form 10-K 
contained materially false and misleading financial statements because these financial statements 
understated loan losses and reserves.  The Complaint alleged that On knew or should have known 
of losses on certain loans and other assets, but failed to disclose full and accurate information about 
these loans and assets to UCBH’s independent auditors.  In addition, the Complaint alleged On 
certified false financial statements in the 2008 Form 10-K, failed to implement a system of internal  
accounting controls, and falsified or caused to be  falsified certain books, records, and accounts.  
The Complaint also alleged On aided and abetted UCBH’s violations of provisions requiring 
accurate annual reports and periodic filings, accurate books and records, and an adequate system of 
internal controls. 
 
                                              IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent On’s Offer. 
 

                                               2 

---------------------Page 3---------------------

        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
       A.      Respondent On is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission 
as an accountant. 
 
                    B. After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the  
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the  
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as:  
 
                                 1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
  
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
 
                      (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight     Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
         
                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms  
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
        
                      (d)     Respondent acknowledges hi    s responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 
 
       C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume  
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 

                                                 3 

---------------------Page 4---------------------

Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 By the Commission.                                          
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                                                                                            M.  Murphy
       Secretary                                                                                                                        
 

                                                                                                         4 

