---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                  STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                            the 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 61305 / January 7, 2010 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3097 / January 7, 2010 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13738 
                                                      ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                     ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
                                                     PURSUANT TO SECTION 4C OF THE 
In the Matter of                                     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
                                                     AND RULE 102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S 
        CHARLES A. GRAY, CPA,                        RULES OF PRACTICE, MAKING 
                                                     FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL 
Respondent.                                          SANCTIONS  
 
 
 
 
                                                      
 
                                                I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate  that public 
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Charles A. Gray, CPA 
(“Respondent”) pursuant to Section 4C  1
                                        of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) 
and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii)  of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 2 
                                                               
                                                  

                                                 
1 
 Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:                            
 
       The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the privilege                       
of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way,  if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the   
requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be   lacking in character or integrity, or to have engaged in  
unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have   willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the 
violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.   
 
2 
 Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
       The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before  
it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct.                                      
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (“Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of  
these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are  
admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative 
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 4C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), 
as set forth below.    
 
                                                III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds   3
                                                                                   that: 
 
       RESPONDENT  
 
       Charles A. Gray is a certified public accountant licensed by the state of Oklahoma.  During 
the period at issue here, he was a partner in Murrell, Hall, McIntosh & Co. PLLP, an accounting 
firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the “PCAOB”).      4 
                                                                                         
 
        FACTS  
 
       1.      Jerry D. Cash, the former Chief Executive Officer and chairman of Quest Resource 
Corporation (“Quest Resource”) and the general partner of Quest Energy Partners, L.P. (“Quest  
Energy” and, together with Quest Resource, “Quest”), with the aid of David E. Grose, Quest’s  
former Chief Financial Officer, misappropriated millions from Quest through insider loans that 
were also undisclosed related party transactions.  Between 2005 and August, 2008, Cash   
embezzled $10 million from Quest by transferring funds between Quest-related entities and 
companies he owned and controlled.  As a result of Cash’s and Grose’s activities, Quest failed to 
disclose, or inadequately disclosed, the related party transactions in periodic filings, registration 
statements, and proxy statements.5 
                                     
 
       2.      Respondent acted as the engagement partner on Murrell Hall’s (a) audits of Quest 
Resource’s annual financial statements for years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007; (b)  
reviews of Quest Resource’s quarterly financial statements during 2005, 2006, and 2007; (c) audit 
of Quest Energy’s annual financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007; and (d)  

                                                 
3 
  The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other   
person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
 
4
 Effective August 1, 2008, Eide Bailly LLP, a PCAOB-re gistered accounting firm, acq uired Murrell Hall’s assets.  
Following the acquisition, Respondent became a partner in Eide Bailly. 
 
5 
 See SEC v. Jerry D. Cash, et al., Lit. Rel. No. 21087 (June 17, 2009)  
                                                 2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

review of Quest Energy’s quarterly financial statements for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.  
These financial statements were included in the companies’ Forms 10-K and Forms 10-Q filed 
with the Commission. 
        
       3.     During Murrell Hall’s audit of Quest Resource’s financial statements for the year  
ended December 31, 2005, Respondent became aware of transfers totaling $2 million between 
Quest Resource and Rockport Energy LLC, a company Cash controlled. 
        
       4.     At or near the time of the conclusion of Murrell Hall’s audits of Quest’s financial 
statements for the year ended December 31, 2007, Respondent learned that Quest had engaged in a  
circular series of funds transfers to and from Rockport totaling $10 million.  When Respondent  
learned of these transfers, $10 million was outstanding. 
        
       5.     In the course of providing these professional services, Respondent failed to 
undertake adequate procedures to determine whether the transfers to Rockport were properly 
recorded and disclosed in Quest’s annual and quarterly financial statements during 2005, 2006 and 
2007.  Among other things, Respondent failed to undertake adequate procedures to ascertain the 
terms and other details of the transactions; to determine whether the transactions were authorized 
by Quest’s board of directors; or whether Quest had properly accounted for the transactions, 
including whether it had established appropriate reserves against Rockport’s inability to repay the 
amounts.   
        
       6.     Respondent also failed to adequately consider whether the transfers to Rockport 
may constitute fraud or an illegal act.  See PCAOB Standards and Related Rules, AU §§ 316 and 
722.32. Furthermore, Respondent failed to adequately consider whether the transfers to Rockport 
violated Section 13(k) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which prohibits any issuer to make, 
directly or indirectly, “personal loans” to any executive officer.   
 
                                           Violations  
                                                 
       Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provide that the Commission may 
temporarily or permanently deny an accountant the privilege of appearing or practicing before it if  
it finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that the accountant engaged in “improper 
professional conduct.”  In relevant part, Section 4C(b) and Rule 102(e)(1)(iv) define ‘improper 
professional conduct’ to include either of the following two types of negligent conduct:  
 
       (1) A single instance of highly unreasonable conduct that results in a violation of applicable 
       professional standards in circumstances in which an accountant, or a person associated with 
       a registered public accounting firm, knows, or should know, that heightened scrutiny is 
       warranted, or 
        
       (2) Repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable 
       professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice before the 
       Commission. 
        

                                               3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                             Findings  
 
       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent engaged in improper 
professional conduct pursuant to Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the  
Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
       A.      Respondent is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant. 
 
                    B. After five years from the date of this Order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (Attention: Office of the  
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                                1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of a public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such an 
application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
      
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                            (a) Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 
and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                       (b)    Respondent, or the registered   public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB and that inspection did not identify any 
criticisms of or potential defects in Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                (c)           Respondent has resolved all   disciplinary issues with the PCAOB, 
and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the PCAOB (other 
than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                       (d)    Respondent acknowledges     his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the PCAOB, including, but not limited to, 
                                                 4
  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
control standards. 
 
         C.       The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume  
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
          
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                                     M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                               

                                                            5
  
