---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  

                                         Before the 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 61518 / February 16, 2010 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3114 / February 16, 2010 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-12326 

                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE
In the Matter of 
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Nevanna Sacks, CPA 
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION  
                          
        

       On June 7, 2006, Nevanna Sacks, CPA (“Sacks”) was denied the privilege of appearing 
or practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public administrative 
proceedings instituted by the Commission against Sacks pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                 Sacks consented to the entry of the order without admitting or 
denying the findings therein.  This order is issued in response to Sacks’s application for 
reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant responsible for the 
preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed with the Commission. 

       The Commission alleged that Sacks engaged in improper professional conduct with 
respect to certain audits and reviews of Peregrine Systems, Inc.’s (“Peregrine”) financial 
statements by Arthur Andersen LLP (“Andersen”).  Sacks served as audit manager on 
Andersen’s audit of Peregrine’s fiscal year 2001 financial statements and review of the 
company’s quarterly financial statements for the third quarter of 2001 and the first, second and 
third quarters of 2002.  Sacks engaged in improper professional conduct by repeatedly engaging 
in unreasonable conduct, resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards that 
indicated a lack of competence to practice before the Commission.  Sacks (i) failed to adequately 
audit Peregrine’s accounts receivable; (ii) did not obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to 
conclude that Peregrine had a history of collecting on certain sales; (iii) failed to make adequate 
inquiries into Peregrine’s agreements with customers; (iv) failed to obtain sufficient competent 
evidential matter to afford a reasonable basis for Andersen to issue a report on the financial 
                                                 
1 
 See  Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2441 dated June 7, 2006.  Sacks was permitted, pursuant       
to the order, to apply for reinstatement after two years upon making certain showings.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

statements of Peregrine, which consolidated the financial statements of Peregrine Germany, a 
material subsidiary, after Arthur Andersen Germany refused to provide an audit report on the 
financial statements of Peregrine Germany; (v) failed to exercise due professional care in 
connection with Peregrine’s false and misleading response to a Commission Comment Letter; 
and (vi) failed to exercise due professional care in connection with the audit and reviews. 
 
       In her capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Sacks 
attests that she will undertake to have her work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which she works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, 
while practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Sacks is not, at this time, seeking to 
appear or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If she should wish to 
resume appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, she will 
be required to submit an application to the Commission showing that she has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original order, which denied her privilege of appearing and 
practicing before the Commission as an accountant, in this regard.  Therefore, the denial of 
Sacks’s privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an independent 
accountant continues in effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has 
been made in this regard in accordance with the terms of the original order. 
        
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”     2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Sacks, it appears that she has complied with the terms of the June 7, 2006 order denying her 
the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to her character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against her pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, and 
that Sacks, by undertaking to have her work reviewed by the independent audit committee of any 
company for which she works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in her 
practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 
        
        
        
        
        
                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3)  
of this section may be made at any time, and the applic ant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated                         
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i).                        
 

                                                 2
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

        
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Nevanna Sacks, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                            
                                            
                                           Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                           Secretary 

                                              3
 
