---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 
 UNITED                                 STATES OF AMERICA 

 BEFORE                                            THE 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 60600 / September 1, 2009 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3042 / September 1, 2009 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13606 
                                              
                                               : 
                                             :       
                                             :       
       In the Matter of                      :      ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                             :      PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT             TO RULE           
       Kenneth Selterman, Esq.,              :      102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES            
                                             :      OF PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS,     
       Respondent.                           :      AND IMPO SING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                        : 
                                                        : 
____________________________________ :        
                                                     
                                                I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Kenneth 
Selterman, Esq. (“Selterman” or “Respondent”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s  
Rules of Practice.1 
                     
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by  
order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . attorney . . . who has been by name . . . 
permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an  
action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of 
the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent  
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
              1.      Selterman, age 59, is and has been  an attorney licensed to practice in the 
State of New York.  Selterman joined Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc. (“Take-Two” or “the 
Company”) as General Counsel in 1999 where he worked until hi s resignation on February 28, 
2007. 
        
              2.      Take-Two was, at all relevant times, a Delaware corporation with its 
principal place of business in New York, New York.  Take-Two develops, markets, publishes and 
distributes interactive entertainment software games for video game consoles and personal 
computers.  Take-Two also publishes through its wholly-owned labels Rockstar Games, 2K Games, 
2K Sports and 2K Play.  Prior  to July 31, 2006, Take-Two registered its common stock with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) 
and traded on the NASDAQ NMS under the symbol “TTWO.”  Since July 31, 2006, Take-Two has 
registered its common stock with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act   
and has traded on the NASDAQ Global Market under the same symbol.  The Company operates on 
an October 31 fiscal year. 
 
              3.      On August 6, 2009, a final judgment was entered against Selterman, 
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 10(b), 13(b)(5), and 16(a) of the 
Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1, 13b2-2, and 16a-3, and aiding and abetting 
violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B), and 14(a) of the Exchange Act and 
Exchange Act Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, 13a-13, and 14a-9, in the civil action entitled 
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Kenneth Selterman, et al., Civil Action Number 09-CV-
6813 (DLC), in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York.  Selterman  
was also barred from serving as an officer or director of any public company and ordered to pay 
$363,185 in disgorgement of ill-gotten “in-the-money” gains from his exercise of backdated stock 
options, $111,115 in prejudgment interest, and a $125,000 civil money penalty. 
 
               4.      The Commission’s Complaint alleged, among other things, that Selterman 
 enriched himself and others by knowingly or recklessly allowing Take-Two’s former 

                                               2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 CEO/Chairman Ryan Brant (“Brant”) to backdate the Company’s stock option grants.  The 
 Complaint alleged that Selterman knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that exercise prices for 
 stock options had been picked with hindsight, and that he created Company records that falsely 
 indicated that grants had occurred on earlier dates when the Company’s stock price had been at a 
 low.  Specifically, the Complaint alleged that Selterman was, in part, responsible for ensuring 
 that the options granting process complied with Take-Two’s own stock option plans, including 
 the 2002 Plan that he helped create and draft.  The Complaint alleged that beginning in 2002 and 
 continuing through the end of 2003, Selterman also was responsible for ensuring that the actions 
 taken by the Company’s Board or Compensation Committee to grant and approve stock options 
 were properly documented in the Company’s books and records, and he prepared or supervised 
 the preparation of Board or Compensation Committee minutes for stock option grants.  The 
 Complaint alleged further that from at least as early as 2000, Selterman knew, or was reckless in 
 not knowing, that stock options were being backdated, and from at least as early as January 
 2002, Selterman knew the accounting consequences of granting stock options at below fair 
 market value.  The Complaint alleged that in the instances before and beginning in 2002, when 
 Selterman prepared Compensation Committee minutes for stock option grants, he knew, or was 
 reckless in not knowing, that Brant was using hindsight to pick grant dates, yet, without inquiry, 
 he simply recorded in the minutes what Brant told him about the granting and approval of option 
 grants.  Accordingly, the Complaint alleged that Selterman knew, or was reckless in not     
 knowing, that Take-Two filed materially false and misleading reports, proxy statements, and 
 financial statements with the Commission and that Take-Two’s filings falsely represented that 
 Take-Two was properly accounting for stock option grants.  In  addition, the Complaint alleged 
 that Selterman received backdated “in-the-money” options. 
 
                                                 IV. 
                                                    
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Selterman’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
       Selterman is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an attorney. 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                       M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                  

                                                  3
  
