---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 67049 / May 23, 2012 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No.  3387 / May 23, 2012 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-11782 

                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Frank D. Edwards, CA 
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION           
                          
        

       On December 27, 2004,  Frank D. Edwards, CA (“Edwards”) was suspended from 
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against Edwards purs uant to Rule 
102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                                   Edwards  consented to the entry of the order 
without admitting or denying the findings therein.  This order is issued in response to Edwards’ 
application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant 
responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed with the 
Commission. 

       The Commission found that Edwards   had been permanently enjoined by a United States 
District Court from violating Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B), and 13(b)(5) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-13, 
13b2-1, and 13b2-2 thereunder in an action brought against him and other defendants by the 
Commission.  In its complaint, the Commission alleged that Edwards, as the Chief Financial 
Officer of Robotic Vision Systems, Inc. (“Robotic”), signed certain misleading filings with the 
Commission while he knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that the financial statements 
contained therein contained material overstatements of revenue and net income resulting from 
the improper recognition of revenue, that he failed to disclose relevant information to Robotic’s 
external auditors, and that he violated and aided and abetted violations of the books and records 
and internal controls provisions of the Exchange Act. 
                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2156 dated December 27, 2004.  Edwards was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after five years upon making certain showings.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                    

       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Edwards     
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Edwards   is not, at this time, seeking to 
appear or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to 
resume appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will 
be required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Edwards’  
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard   in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 

       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 

       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Edwards  , it appears that he has complied with the terms of the December 27, 2004 order 
suspending him from appearing or    practicing  before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct, or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
and that Edwards, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee 
of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in 
his practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to 
be filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is 
accordingly, 

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice that 
Frank D. Edwards, CA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                              
                                              
                                             Elizabeth M. Murphy     
                                             Secretary  
                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended  or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
 

                                                 2 
