---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
 
                                       Before the 

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 62235 / June 7, 2010 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3139 / June 7, 2010 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13925  
 
__________________________________           
                                       )    
In the Matter of                       )   ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST  
                                       )   PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO SECTION  
China Yuchai International Limited,    )   21C OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT  
                                       )   OF 1934, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
Respondent.                            )   IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER  
__________________________________ 
 
  

                                           I.  

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against China Yuchai International Limited 
(“China Yuchai” or “Respondent”). 

                                          II.  

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over Respondent and the subject 
matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order 
Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth 
below.  

 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              III.  

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  1
                                                                                 that:     

       1.     This matter concerns China Yuchai’s violations of the reporting, books and 
records and internal controls provisions of the securities laws, arising out of China Yuchai’s  
material overstatement of net income for the year ended December 31, 2005.  The overstatement 
was caused by an erroneous material adjusting journal entry made at China Yuchai’s majority-
owned subsidiary, Guangxi Yuchai Machinery Company Limited (“Guangxi Yuchai”).  China 
Yuchai included the overstated financial results in its annual report for 2005, which it filed with 
the Commission in August 2006.  In 2008, China Yuchai restated its 2005 financial statements, 
including the reversal of the erroneous adjusting journal entry at the subsidiary. 

       2. China Yuchai       is a Bermuda company headquartered in Singapore.  China Yuchai’s  
common stock is registered with the Commission under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act, and 
is listed on the New York Stock Exchange.  China Yuchai owns 76.4% of Guangxi Yuchai, a 
Sino-foreign joint stock company, headquartered in  Yulin City in the People’s Republic of China 
(“PRC”).  Guangxi Yuchai manufactures and distributes diesel engines in the PRC. 

       3.     The erroneous material adjusting journal entry arose as a result of inadequate 
financial controls at Guangxi Yuchai.  Guangxi Yuchai had been consistently profitable between 
1998 and 2004.  In the second half of 2005, however, Guangxi Yuchai’s financial statements 
began to reflect monthly losses, which worsened as the year progressed.  Guangxi Yuchai’s  
management and finance department considered whether technical problems with new 
accounting software installed earlier that year had overstated the “Goods Received/Invoices Not 
Received” (“GR/IR”) account, because the GR/IR year-end balance had grown significantly over 
the previous year.  The GR/IR account tracks the cost of raw materials delivered to Guangxi 
Yuchai’s warehouse prior to the receipt of  invoices from vendors.  GR/IR is consolidated with 
Accounts Payable on Guangxi Yuchai’s balance sheet. 

       4.     To investigate the possible error, the Guangxi Yuchai procurement department 
staff manually counted warehouse receiving documents and called suppliers to discuss shipments 
and invoices.  Using the procurement department data, the finance department staff substantiated 
a GR/IR account balance of Rmb 400 million, but the accounting software indicated a balance of 
Rmb 568 million.  On January 20, 2006, the finance department input an adjusting entry of Rmb 
168 million (equivalent to approximately $21 million) into the GR/IR account for the period 
ending December 31, 2005. 

       5.     After the adjusting entry had been made, personnel in the Guangxi Yuchai finance 
department discovered additional warehouse receipts that had not been included in the January 
2006 count.  The discovery of the additional warehouse receipts indicated that the adjusting 
journal entry made in January 2006 was at least partially erroneous.  However, no one at 

                                                 
 
       1
           The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                               2
 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

Guangxi Yuchai informed anyone at China Yuchai of the discovery of the additional receipts or 
informed the parent company that the adjusting journal entry was at least partially erroneous. 

       6.      On August 8, 2006, China Yuchai filed its 2005 annual report with the 
Commission on Form 20-F, incorrectly reporting net income of $8.5 million as a result of the 
erroneous adjusting journal entry.    

       7.       In June 2007, finance personnel at China Yuchai learned that the January 2006 
adjusting journal entry was at least partially erroneous when an accountant in the Guangxi 
Yuchai finance department proposed a partial reversal of the adjusting entry.  China Yuchai’s  
Audit Committee was informed of the issue and hired outside counsel to conduct an internal 
investigation of the issue. 

       8.      In August 2007, following a preliminary investigation, China Yuchai publicly 
disclosed that it was conducting an investigation into a possible accounting error and that “Rmb  
168 million . . . may have to be reversed.” 

       9.      On May 30, 2008, China Yuchai filed an amended Form 20-F which restated its 
financial results for 2005.  In the restatement, China Yuchai reported a net loss for the year of 
$4 million instead of the $8.5 million net income originally reported (a decrease of 
approximately $12.5 million).  Guangxi Yuchai reversed the entire January 2006 adjusting entry.   
During the course of finalizing the adjusting entry in the restated financial results for 2005, 
China Yuchai identified certain other accounting errors not previously known and corrected these 
other accounting errors in its restated financial results for 2005. 

       10.     China Yuchai has made changes to Guangxi Yuchai’s internal controls designed 
to diminish the likelihood of such problems in the future.  These included effecting changes in 
the personnel in the Guangxi Yuchai finance department, adopting new procedures for posting 
accounting entries, and training finance personnel in U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles. 

       11.     As a result of the conduct described above, China Yuchai violated Section 13(a) 
of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-1 thereunder, which require every issuer of a 
security registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act to file with the Commission 
information, documents, and annual reports as the Commission may require, and mandate that 
reports contain such further material information as may be necessary to make the required 
statements not misleading.     

       12.     China Yuchai’s  2005 annual report on Form 20-F, filed on August 8, 2006, 
materially overstated the company’s net income and other financial performance measurements, 
due to the erroneous adjusting journal entry at China Yuchai’s majority-owned subsidiary. 

       13.     As a result of the conduct described above, China Yuchai violated 
Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to make and keep 
books, records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their 
transactions and dispositions of their assets.  As a result of the erroneous material adjustment to 
the GR/IR account, China Yuchai’s books, records, and accounts were materially misstated and 
did not accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the company’s assets. 
                                                3
 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       14.     As a result of the conduct described above, China Yuchai violated 
Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, which requires all reporting companies to devise and 
maintain a system of internal accounting controls  sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles.  China Yuchai’s  internal controls were not 
sufficient to prevent the entry of an erroneous material adjustment to the accounts of its majority-
owned subsidiary, or to require the reversal of that adjustment when it became apparent that it 
was erroneous. 

                                China Yuchai’s Remedial Efforts  

       In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts promptly  
undertaken by Respondent and cooperation afforded the Commission staff. 

                                                 IV.  

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent China Yuchai’s Offer.  

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act,  
Respondent China Yuchai cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 
12b-20 and13a-1 thereunder. 

       By the Commission. 
 
 
       Elizabeth M. Murphy 
       Secretary                                                   
 

                                                  4
 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                          Service List  
 
       Rule 141 of the Commission's Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or another 
duly authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order Instituting Cease-and- 
Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making 
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), on the Respondent and its legal 
agents. 
 
       The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to 
notice:  
 
Honorable Brenda P. Murray 
                             
Chief Administrative Law Judge 
                   
Securities and Exchange Commission 
         
100 F Street, N.E. 

Washington, DC  20549-2557 
                 
 
Kara Brockmeyer. Esq. 

Robert Wilson, Esq. 

Gina Joyce, Esq. 

Division of Enforcement
  
Securities and Exchange Commission 
         
100 F Street, N.E. 

Washington, DC  20549-5720-B 

                                                
China Yuchai International Limited 

c/o Mr. Saw Boo Guan, President 

David Brodsky, Esq. 

Latham & Watkins LLP  

885 Third Avenue 

New York, NY 10022-4834 

    
David Brodsky, Esq. 

Latham & Watkins LLP  

885 Third Avenue 

New York, NY 10022-4834 

(Counsel for China Yuchai International Limited) 

 
 

                                               5
 
 
