---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 
                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 67542 / July 30, 2012 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3395 / July 30, 2012 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-14968 
 
                                              
                                            ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                            ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS AND 
In the Matter of                            IMPOSING TEMPORARY SUSPENSION 
                                            PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e)(3) OF THE 
                                            COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE 
                                                                 
       NANCY SHAO WEN CHU 

 

             Respondent. 
 
                                          
 
                                          
                                           I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Nancy 
Shao Wen Chu (“Chu”)  pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.1
                                                                                       
 
                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
 
 
                                              II. 
 
The Commission finds that: 
 
       A.     RESPONDENT 
        
              1.      Nancy Shao Wen Chu, age 54   , is a resident of Claremont, California.  Chu 
served as CFO of publicly traded Soyo Group, Inc. (“Soyo”) between 2002 and 2009 and she was 
also effectively the chief executive officer as she ran the day-to-day operations of the company.  
Chu has never held a Certified Public Accountant license.   
        
       B.     COURT FINDINGS & INJUNCTION 
 
              2.      On May 25, 2012, the U.S. District Court for the Central District of 
California in SEC v. Chu, et al., Case No. CV 11-09859 R(FMOx) (C.D. Cal.) issued a Final Order 
of Judgment By Default, permanently enjoining Chu from violating, directly or indirectly, Section 
10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder [15 U.S.C. § 78j(b) and 
17 C.F.R. § 240.10b-5] and Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 [15 U.S.C. § 77q(a)]. 
 
              3.      The Final Order of Judgment by Default was entered after Chu failed to 
respond to the Commission’s complaint, which was properly served on her.  That complaint, the 
allegations of which are deemed true as to Chu by her default, alleged that between January 2007 
and November 2008, Soyo, through the actions of Chu and others, misled Soyo’s  investors, 
primary lending bank, and auditor by materially overstating Soyo’s net revenues and understating 
its liabilities.  According to the complaint, Chu caused Soyo to book over $47 million in fraudulent 
sales revenues arising from at least 120 fictitious transactions with 21 customers, resulting in Soyo 
materially overstating its net revenues in its periodic filings by amounts ranging from 14.4 to 76.8 
percent.  The complaint also alleged that in order to obtain additional bank financing for Soyo and 
keep its existing line of credit from defaulting, Chu misled Soyo’s investors, primary lending bank, 
and auditor regarding a $6 million debt-for-equity transaction with a Soyo vendor that was never 
completed.   
        
                                                
                                              III. 
 
       Based upon the foregoing, the Commission finds that a court of competent jurisdiction has 
permanently enjoined Chu from violating the Federal securities laws within the meaning of rule 
102(e)(3)(i)(A) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice for conduct that occurred while acting as an 
accountant.   In view of these  findings, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public 
interest that Chu be temporarily suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission. 
   
       IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Chu           be, and hereby is, temporarily suspended from 

                                               2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
appearing or practicing before the Commission.  This Order will be effective upon service on the 
Respondent. 
 
       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Chu             may, within thirty days after service of this Order, 
file a petition with the Commission to lift the temporary suspension.  If the Commission receives 
no petition within thirty days after service of the Order, the suspension     will become permanent 
pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(ii). 
  
        If a petition is received within thirty days after service of this Order, the Commission will, 
within thirty days after the filing of the petition,  either lift the temporary suspension, or set the 
matter down for hearing at a time and place to be designated by the Commission, or both.            If a 
hearing is ordered, following the hearing, the Commission may lift the suspension, censure the 
petitioner, or disqualify the petitioner from appearing or practicing before the Commission for a 
period of time, or permanently, pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(iii). 
 
       This Order shall be served upon  Chu personally or by certified mail at h er last known 
address or as otherwise authorized by the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                     Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                                                     Secretary 
 
 

                                                   3  
