---------------------Page 1---------------------

   
   
                                  UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

                                               before the 

                         SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 62589 / July 29, 2010 
        
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  3160 / July 29, 2010 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING                                                                                                                    
FILE NO.  3-13983 
 
                                                         
                                                        ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
In the Matter of                                        ADMINISTRATIVE  PROCEEDINGS 
                                                        PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
   LARRY E. HULSE, CPA,                                 COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                                        MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                                        REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
   Respondent. 
 
 
 
                                         I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission ( “Commission”) deems it appropriate and in 
the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant 
to Rule 102(e)(3)(i)1
                     of the Commission’s Rules of Practice against Larry E. Hulse 
(“Respondent” or “Hulse”). 
 
                                               II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him, the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to 

                                                 
1
  Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and             
without preliminary hearing, may, by order, … suspend from appearing or practicing before it any  … accountant …                                              
who has been by name … permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her                            
misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any     
provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations thereunder.  
  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below. 

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  

              1.      Hulse, age 54, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to 
practice in the State of Maryland.  Hulse became the Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) of Sunrise 
Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. (“Sunrise” or the “Company”) in March                2000.  On August 4, 2005, 
Sunrise announced that it had replaced Hulse as CFO and Hulse became chief executive of 
Sunrise’s captive insurance company.  On December 20, 2007, Sunrise announced the separation 
of Hulse from the Company.   

              2.      Sunrise is a Delaware Corporation headquartered in McLean, Virginia.  Its  
securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Exchange Act”), and the Company’s common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange 
under the symbol SRZ.  Sunrise is a provider of residential communities and services for the 
elderly.  Sunrise has a fiscal year end of December 31. 

              3.      On July 23, 2010, the Commission filed a complaint against Hulse and 
others in Securities and Exchange Commission v. Sunrise Senior Living, Inc., et al. Civil Action 
No.1:10-CV-01247 (D.D.C.).  On July 27, 2010 the court entered an order permanently 
enjoining Hulse, by consent, from future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the 
Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 
13a-14 and 13b2-1 thereunder and from aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 
thereunder.  Hule was also ordered by consent to pay $83,333 in disgorgement of ill-gotten gains 
plus $31,660 in prejudgment interest and a $50,000 civil monetary penalty. 

              4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Hulse, in 
violation of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, oversaw improper adjustments to 
Sunrise’s reserve for self-insured health and dental benefits and its accrual for corporate bonuses, 
thereby misrepresenting Sunrise’s earnings.  The complaint alleges that as a result of his actions, 
Sunrise filed materially false and misleading financial statements for Sunrise’s 2003 and 2004 
fiscal years on Forms 10-K and in Sunrise’s quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q for the first two 
quarters of 2005.  The complaint further alleges that Hulse signed false SEC filings and Sarbanes 
Oxley certifications.  

                                              IV.  

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest 
to impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.  
 
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 

                                               2
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       A.      Hulse is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
       B.      After three years from the date of this Order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as:  
 
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission. Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or   
 
               2.     an independent accountant. Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that:  
 
 
                      (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight   Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective;  
 
                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms  
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision;  
 
                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and  
 
                      (d) Respondent acknowledges his       responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                3
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
        C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy. However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits. The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission.  
 
        By the Commission.  
        
 
 
       Elizabeth M. Murphy 
       Secretary                                                     

                                                     4
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                           Service List  
 
       Rule 141 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or another 
duly authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order Instituting Public  
Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), on the Respondent. 
 
       The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to 
notice:  
 
Honorable Brenda P. Murray                              
Chief Administrative Law Judge                       
Securities and Exchange Commission            
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-2557 
 
Christopher Conte, Esq.                                    
Division of Enforcement                                    
Securities and Exchange Commission            
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-5553B                    
      
Mr. Larry E. Hulse 
c/o Michael D. Trager, Esq. 
Arnold & Porter LLP 
555 Twelfth Street, N.W. 
Washington, DC 20004 
 
Michael D. Trager, Esq.  
Arnold & Porter LLP 
555 Twelfth Street, N.W. 
Washington, DC 20004 
(Counsel for Larry E. Hulse) 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                5
 
