---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 UNITED                                   STATES OF AMERICA 

 before                                             the 

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 61383 / January 20, 2010 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3105 / January 20, 2010 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13754 
                                               
                                              :         
       In the Matter of                       :       ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                              :       ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
                                              :       PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e)                 
           THEODORE P. NONCEK, CPA:                   OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES   
                                              :       OF PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS,  
                                              :       AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL 
          Respondent.                         :       SANCTIONS  
                                                         : 
 ___________________________________ :                  
                                                               
                                                 I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
Theodore P. Noncek, CPA (“Respondent” or “Noncek”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice.  1 
                                    
                                                   

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest an d without preliminary hearing, may, by order, . . .  
       suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has been by name:                      
 
               (A) permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her                                  
               misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the     
               violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations thereunder.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               II.  
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent  
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 
102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial  
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III.  
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
                          1. Noncek, age 51, was Vice-President and Controller of Bally Total Fitness 
Holding Corporation (“Bally”) from  2001 to February 2005, when he was terminated.  Prior to his 
employment at Bally, Noncek was an auditor with Ernst & Young LLP.  At all relevant times, 
Noncek was a certified public accountant. 
        
              2.      Bally purported to be the largest, and only nationwide, commercial operator  
of fitness centers.  At all relevant times, Bally's common stock was registered with the Commission 
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and traded on 
the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”).  The NYSE delisted Bally's common stock on June 8, 
2007.  After filing for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, on September 17, 
2007, Bally emerged as a privately held reorganized entity.   
        
              3.      On December 17, 2009, the Commission filed a complaint against Noncek 
in SEC v. Theodore P. Noncek , 09-CV-2387 (CKK)(D.D.C.).  On December 22, 2009, the court  
entered an order permanently enjoining Noncek, by consent, from violating Sections 17(a)(2) and 
(3) of the Securities Act of 1933, and from aidi ng and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 
thereunder.  
        
              4.      The Commission’s complaint alleges, among other things, that during the 
relevant time period, Noncek violated various provisions of the federal securities laws.  The 
complaint also alleges that Noncek, with others, was responsible  for Bally’s materially false and 
misleading statements about its financial condition in filings with the Commission and in other 
public statements. These materially false and misleading statements portrayed Bally's financial 
condition (its net worth) and its performance (its income) as being materially better than they 
actually were during the relevant period.  
                                                 

                                               2
  
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Noncek’s Offer. 
        
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  
 
       A.      Respondent is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
       B.      After two years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the  
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the  
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
                                1. a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
      
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                            (a) Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight     Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                       (b)    Respondent, or the registered   public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms  
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                (c)           Respondent has resolved all di  sciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                       (d)    Respondent acknowledges      his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 
      
       C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume  
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
                                                 3
  
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth                                                                                M. Murphy
       Secretary                                                                          

                                                                     4
  
 
