---------------------Page 1---------------------

 UNITED                                 STATES OF AMERICA 

 Before                                           the 

 SECURITIES                          AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 64289A / April 8, 2011 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3269A / April 8, 2011 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-14339 
 
                                                      
In the Matter of                                    CORRECTED 
                                                    ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
            Kempisty & Company, CPAs,               DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT 
       P.C., Philip C. Kempisty, CPA                TO SECTION 21C OF THE 
       and John Anthony Rubino, CPA,                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 
                                                    1934 AND PUBLIC  ADMINISTRATIVE 
Respondents.                                        PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
                                                     SECTION 4C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                                     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND RULE 
                                                    102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S  
                                                    RULES OF PRACTICE, AND NOTICE 
                                                    OF HEARING  
                                                     
 
                                               I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 
21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and that public administrative 
proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 4C(2) and (3)1
                                                                           of the Exchange Act 
and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) and (iii)2 
                               of the Commission’s Rules of Practice against Kempisty and 

                                                 
1 
       Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:    
The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the privilege of  
appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . (2) to be lacking in character or   
integrity, or to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully violated, or 
willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of  the securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
2 
       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) and (iii) provide, in relevant part, that:   
The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before the  
Commission  . . . to any person who is found . . . (ii) to be lacking in character or integrity or to have engaged in    
unethical or improper professional conduct; or  . . . (iii) to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the 
violation of any provision of the Federal securities  laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.  
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Company, CPAs, P.C., Philip C. Kempisty and John Anthony Rubino (collectively, 
“Respondents”).    
                                            Summary  
 
       These proceedings arise out of quarterly reviews and an audit performed by Kempisty & 
Company, CPAs, P.C. (“Kempisty & Company”), of the financial statements of its client, 
Kentucky Energy, Inc. (“Kentucky Energy”),   3
                                               for the year ended December 31, 2005.  In these  
financial statements, Kentucky Energy improperly accounted for warrants and convertible notes it  
had issued to third parties.  Kempisty & Company rendered an unqualified report stating that, in 
the firm’s opinion, the financial statements presented fairly the financial position of the company in  
conformity with 4
                  generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).  In fact, the financial 
statements were not presented in conformity with GAAP and the resulting errors were material.  
Moreover, the respondents failed to comply with Public Company Accounting Oversight Board 
(“PCAOB”) auditing standards (“AU”)    5
                                         in carrying out the relevant audits and reviews.   
 
                                                II.  
 
       After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that: 
 
A. RESPONDENTS             
 
       Kempisty & Company, CPAs, P.C. (“Kempisty & Company”), is an audit firm with 
offices in New York City.  It is a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board.  Kempisty & Company was the independent auditor for Kentucky 
Energy at all relevant times from 2003 until the company dismissed it on February 13, 2009.   
        
       Philip C. Kempisty, CPA, 61 (“Kempisty”), is the founding partner and majority 
shareholder of Kempisty & Company.  He has been licensed as a CPA in the state of New York  
since 1974. 
        
       John Anthony Rubino, CPA, 67 (“Rubino”), has been a partner/member in Kempisty & 
Company since 1989.  He is licensed as a CPA in the states of New York and Nevada.  Rubino 
worked for a series of CPA firms in the New York City area before joining Kempisty & Company 
in approximately 1980.   

                                                 
3 
       The company was named Quest Minerals and Mining Corp. during the relevant time.     
4 
       The Kempisty report did contain an explanatory paragraph describing substantial doubt about the entity’s  
ability to continue as a going concern and an emphasis of  matter paragraph describing that potential adverse rulings  
in ongoing litigation could result in a loss of the company’s operating assets. 
5 
       “AU” refers to the specific sections of the codification of the Am  erican Institute of Certified Public 
Accountants (“AICPA”) professional standards, known as the Statements on Auditing Standards, as issued by the  
Auditing Standards Board of the AICPA.  These standards have been adopted by the PCAOB following passage of   
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOx”).  References in this order are to the standards in effect at the time of the 
relevant conduct.  
                                                 2
  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
B. FACTS        
 
Issuance of convertible notes and warrants by Kentucky Energy  
       
      1.       Kentucky Energy’s 2005 financial statements, like those for the preceding year, 
were prepared by a consultant to the company.  This consultant’s father was the Vice President, 
Secretary and a director of Kentucky Energy.  Kempisty and Rubino had no specific knowledge 
of the consultant’s education or experience in accounting but were aware that he was not a CPA.  
       
      2.       Beginning in 2004 and continuing into 2005, Kentucky En   ergy obtained a series of  
loans from third parties evidenced by notes convertible into common stock. 6
                                                                              As an additional 
incentive to the lenders, Kentucky Energy issued warrants along with each note.  Kentucky 
Energy’s consultant needed to account for warrants for the first time in preparing the company’s 
financial statements for inclusion in its Form  10-KSB for the year ended December 31, 2004.   
Rubino had never previously dealt with the issue of how to account for warrants or a beneficial  
conversion feature of a convertible note, both of which are derivatives.   
       
Improper accounting for warrants and beneficial conversion feature 
        
       3.      Rubino told the consultant that he would need to value the warrants using the  
Black-Scholes option pricing model.  Accordingly, the consultant found a Black-Scholes 
calculator on the internet.  This calculator called for him to fill in variables for the warrants’ 
“equity price,” “strike price,” “volatility,” “riskless interest rate,” and “time to maturity,” and 
would then generate a Black-Scholes valuation.  For “volatility” and “interest rate,” however, the 
consultant simply inserted the generic numbers provided as an example by the website, rather 
than calculate the actual volatility of Kentucky Energy stock and determine the real riskless 
interest rate.  In fact, Kentucky Energy’s stock price was far more volatile than that listed in the 
website example. 
        
       4.      Using this method, the consultant arrived at a value for the warrants issued during 
the last quarter of 2004.  He recorded that value as an expense on the company’s statement of 
operations and sent his draft financial  statements to Kempisty & Company.   
        
       5.      Rubino, however, contacted the consultant and told him that he should have 
recorded the warrant valuation as an asset on the company’s balance sheet, rather than as an 
expense on its statement of operations, and that he should then have amortized that amount over 
the life of the underlying convertible notes.  Not only was this accounting treatment incorrect, but 
both Rubino and the consultant ignored the necessity to provide for the beneficial conversion 
feature of the notes. 
        
       6.      In fact, accounting for the warrants in accordance with GAAP required that the 
proper inputs be used in the Black-Scholes option pricing model.  Kentucky Energy should have 
                                                 
6 
       One series of notes issued during 2005 was not convertible and one note did not have warrants attached,                               
however.  
                                                 3
  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

allocated the loan proceeds first to the notes and the warrants; and then, from the portion 
allocated to the notes, reallocated that to the notes and the beneficial conversion feature of the 
notes.  The amount of proceeds allocable to the warrants and the beneficial conversion feature 
would be accounted for as paid-in-capital and as a discount to the face amount of the note.  The 
note should have been recorded net of this discount on the balance sheet and the discount should 
have been amortized to interest expense in the statement of operations over the life of the notes.  
        
       7.      Rubino testified that he did not know whether or not the consultant was a CPA, 
what his accounting background was, or whether he was familiar with GAAP.  Even after he 
decided that the consultant’s first set of financial statements was incorrectly prepared, Rubino took 
no further steps to verify the consultant’s competence.   
        
GAAP failures  
        
       8.      For the first quarter of 2005, using the same methodology esta blished in 2004, the  
consultant arrived at a value of $15,694,422 for the warrants, and that amount less amortization of 
$1,881,139, or $13,813,283 was recorded as an asset on the company’s balance sheet.  In the 
subsequent quarters of 2005, the consultant continued to calculate the warrant valuation improperly 
and to record it as an asset which, for each of the first two quarters, amounted to over 60% of 
Kentucky Energy’s total assets.  On the company’s statements of operations, the warrant 
amortization expense increased correspondingly, and on its 2005 year-end statement of operations  
amounted to 70% of Kentucky Energy’s net loss.  Throughout this period, the consultant continued 
to fail to consider the effect of the beneficial conversion feature of the promissory notes.  The 
combined valuation of the warrants and the beneficial conversion features should not have 
exceeded the proceeds the company had received from the notes, which amounted to $1,875,000 at 
the end of the first quarter and $3,105,000 at the  end of 2005, and they should not have been 
recorded as an asset. 
        
       9.      For its year ended December 31, 2005, as a result of its improper accounting for the 
warrants and convertible notes, Kentucky Energy recorded the warrant asset in the amount of 
$3,097,903 on its balance sheet, reflecting the ensuing quarters’ amortization as an expense on its 
statements of operations.  In so doing, the company overstated total assets by 43% and overstated 
its net loss by 197%.  It also materially overstated paid-in capital, retained deficit, shareholders’ 
equity and expenses.  This improper accounting was material to balance sheets and statements of  
operations contained in its quarterly filings for 2005 as well.  For example, its assets were 
overstated by approximately $13.8 million, or 213%, in the financial statements contained in its 
Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2005 and its net loss was overstated by approximately 174% for  
the second quarter of 2005. 
   
Audit and Reviews 
        
       10.     Kempisty & Company, Kempisty and Rubino conducted quarterly reviews and a 
year-end audit of Kentucky Energy’s financial statements for the 2005 year.  In the report filed 
with the Form 10-KSB filed by the company on May 9, 2006, Kempisty and Co. stated that the 
financial statement presented fairly the financial position of the company at December 31, 2005.  

                                                4
  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

On these engagements, Rubino was the engagement partner and Kempisty was the concurring 
review partner.  They were the only auditors who worked on this engagement, and in fact were 
the only partners and auditors in the firm at the time. 
        
PCAOB auditing standards failures by Rubino as the engagement partner 
        
       Lack of training and proficiency. 
        
       11.    Rubino lacked the necessary training and proficiency as an auditor to properly 
interpret the professional guidance under GAAP having to do with accounting for warrants and 
convertible notes.  The workpapers reflect no analysis to support treating the warrants as assets on 
Kentucky Energy’s balance sheet.  Nevertheless, he sought no outside advice on these issues.  In 
fact, Rubino did not realize that in accounting for the warrants he was dealing with derivative 
instruments requiring a careful analysis for proper accounting.   
        
       12.    PCAOB auditing standards require that the audit be performed by "a person or 
persons having adequate technical training and proficiency as an auditor."  AU § 210.01.  PCAOB 
Auditing Standards further require that “[t]he auditor with final responsibility for the engagement 
should know, at a minimum, the relevant professional accounting and auditing standards . . . .”  AU 
§ 230.06. 
        
       Failure to exercise due professional care and skepticism 

       and to obtain sufficient competent  evidential matter. 

        
       13.    Rubino also failed to obtain and sufficiently examine, read and understand all of 
the underlying documents evidencing the note/warrant transactions.  The workpapers did not 
contain copies of all the relevant agreements underlying the convertible note financings.  There 
is no evidence that Rubino evaluated this documentation to understand how the transactions 
should be accounted for under GAAP. 
        
       14.    Rubino knew that Kentucky Energy’s  consultant had limited knowledge of 
accounting and GAAP, yet he failed to review in sufficient detail the Black-Scholes assumptions 
and analysis the consultant had used, therefore failing to discover that he had merely used the 
generic volatility and interest rate numbers off the website rather than obtain the correct numbers 
for Kentucky Energy.   
 
       15.    PCAOB auditing standards require that "[d]ue professional care is to be exercised 
in the planning and performance of the audit and the preparation of the report."  AU § 230.01. 
Among other things, due professional care requires that an auditor exercise professional 
skepticism, defined as "an attitude that includes a questioning mind and a critical assessment of  
audit evidence."  AU § 230.07. Gathering and objectively evaluating audit evidence requires the  
auditor to consider the competency and sufficiency of the evidence.  AU § 230.08.  In exercising 
professional skepticism, the auditor should not be satisfied with less than persuasive evidence 
because of a belief that management is honest.  AU § 230.09. 
         

                                               5
  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       16.     PCAOB auditing standards also require that "[s]ufficient competent evidential 
matter is to be obtained through inspection, observation, inquiries, and confirmations to afford a 
reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the financial statements under audit."  AU § 326.01.  To 
be competent, evidence, regardless of its form, must be both valid and relevant.  AU § 326.21.  In 
addition, the auditor should "recognize the possibility that the financial statements may not be 
fairly presented in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles ..." and should 
"consider relevant evidential matter regardless of whether it appears to corroborate or contradict 
the assertions in the financial statements."  AU § 326.25.  Management representations "are part of 
the evidential matter the independent auditor obtains, but they are not a substitute for the 
application of those auditing procedures necessary to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion 
regarding the financial statements under audit."  AU § 333.02. 
        
       Failure to comply with relevant PCAOB auditing standards regarding auditing of 
derivatives 
 
       17.     In fact, PCAOB auditing standards provide specific guidance to auditors in  
planning and performing auditing procedures for assertions about derivative instruments that are 
made in an entity’s financial statements.  AU§ 332.  This guidance states that the auditor may 
need special skills or knowledge to plan and perform auditing procedures for certain assertions 
about derivatives and securities.  AU§ 332.05. 
        
       18.     Rubino failed to, among other things: 
        
           •	   Understand the application of generally accepted accounting principles for 
               assertions about derivatives (AU§ 332.05) 
           •	   Understand the determination of fair value of derivatives, including the 
               reasonableness of key assumptions (AU§ 332.05 and AU§ 332.40) 
           •	   Alter its risk assessment and audit procedures based on the entity’s inexperience 
               with a derivative (AU§ 332.08) 
           •	   Obtain evidence supporting management’s assertion about fair value of the 
               derivative (AU§ 332.35) and 
           •	   Evaluate whether the presentation and disclosure of derivatives are in conformity 
               with generally accepted accounting principles (AU§ 332.49). 
 
Thus, Rubino failed to fulfill  his responsibilities under PCAOB auditing standards for auditing 
those instruments.   
   
PCAOB auditing standards review failures by Rubino as the engagement partner 
 
       19.     In addition to the audit failures, Rubino failed to comply with the specific 
standards applicable to interim reviews of Kentucky Energy’s 2005 quarterly financial 
statements.  These standards, set forth in AU § 722, provide guidance on the nature, timing and 
extent of the procedures to be performed by an independent accountant when conducting a 
review of interim financial information.   
                
                                                6
  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

       20.      The objective of a review of interim financial information is to provide the 
accountant with a basis for communicating whether he or she is aware of any material 
modifications that should be made to the interim financial information for it to conform with 
GAAP.   AU § 722.07.  The standards specificall  y require the accountant to perform certain 
procedures when conducting a review of interim financial information, including, but not limited 
to inquiring of management about unusual or complex situations that may have an effect on the 
interim financial information, and matters about which questions have arisen in the course of 
applying the review procedures and significant journal entries and other adjustments.  AU § 
722.18.   
                
       21.     The unusual or complex situations, referred to in the above paragraph, specifically 
include the use of derivative instruments and unique terms for debt that could affect 
classification.  AU § 722.55 (Appendix B).  Rubino, however, did not give adequate 
consideration to the analysis and classification of the derivative instruments recorded in the 
financial statements. 
                
       22.     Finally, the same standards relating to adequate technical training and proficiency, 
due professional care and professional skepticism apply to reviews as well as audits.  AU § 
722.01.   Therefore, Rubino’s audit failures for Kentucky Energy’s year ended 2005 apply 
equally to the quarterly reviews.      
 
 PCAOB auditing standards failures by Kempisty as the concurring review partner  
       23.     Kempisty, as the concurring review partner, was responsible for performing an 
objective review of significant auditing, accounting, and financial reporting matters that came to 
his attention, and was an integral part of the resolution of matters prior to the issuance of the firm's 
audit report.  SEC Practice Section (“SECPS”)  §1000.39 (Appendix E).  7
                                                                         On the basis of that 
review, Kempisty was required to conclude that no matters came to his attention that caused him to 
believe that the financial statements of Kentucky Energy were not in conformity with GAAP in all 
material respects, and that the firm's audit was performed in accordance with the standards of the  
PCAOB. 
       24.     Kempisty was required, among other things, to review documentation of the 
resolution of significant accounting, auditing and financial reporting matters.  His review of the  
financial statements and management documentation should have alerted him to the mistakes in 
valuing and classifying the warrant.  
       25.     Kempisty had additional specific responsibilities with respect to the concurring 
review of Kentucky Energy’s interim financial statements.  For a review conducted on interim  
financial information on financial statements in an SEC client’s quarterly Form 10-Q or 10-QSB 
filing, a member firm's policies and procedures should require discussion with the concurring 
partner reviewer, prior to the completion of the review, about any matters identified in the review  
that involve a significant risk of material misstatement of the financial statements.  Any such  
involvement should be documented.  SECPS §1000.39 (Appendix E).   
                                                 
7 
                         This references concurring partner review standards set by the AICPA which were adopted by the PCAOB   
following passage of SOx.  Kempisty & Company was a member of the SEC Practice Section of the AICPA from    
1991until the formation of the PCAOB, making it subject to these standards.  
                                                 7
  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

       26.    Although testimony indicates that Kempisty did discuss the warrant/convertible 
note accounting issue with Rubino, the workpapers for the interim reviews do not contain any 
documentation of such discussions nor of matters identified in the review that involve a significant 
risk of material misstatement of the financial statements.   
       27.    Finally, as a general matter, Kempisty as concurring reviewer was required to have 
“sufficient relevant technical expertise and experience” to perform his duties.  SECPS §1000.39 
(Appendix E).  In this matter he was therefore required to have technical expertise and experience  
in the area of accounting for derivatives, including warrants and convertible notes.  The standards 
also require that a concurring reviewer seek assistance from other individuals to supplement his 
knowledge when necessary.   
       28.    As concurring reviewer for both the interim reviews and year-end audit, Kempisty  
lacked the expertise and experience necessary to understand that the instruments involved in the 
transactions were derivatives.  He also failed to seek outside professional assistance to understand 
how to properly account for such items.  
Misstatement in Audit Report 
       29.    In this matter, Kempisty & Company, Kempisty and Rubino’s audit report falsely 
states that they conducted their audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, and that in 
their opinion the financial statements of Kentucky Energy were presented fairly, in all material 
respects, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of  
America.  In fact, they were not. 
 
C. VIOLATIONS           
        
       1.     As a result of the conduct described above, Kempisty & Company, Kempisty and 
Rubino willfully aided and abetted and caused Kentucky Energy’s violations of Sections 13(a) of  
the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and13a-13 thereunder. 
 
       2.     As a result of the conduct described above, Kempisty & Company, Kempisty and 
Rubino engaged in improper professional conduct pursuant to Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange 
Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, and willfully aided and abetted 
and caused Kentucky Energy’s violation of the federal securities laws, pursuant to Section  
4C(a)(3) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(i ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
                                              III. 
 
       In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement, the Commission deems it 
necessary and appropriate that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be  
instituted, to determine  
        
       A.     Whether the allegations set forth in Section II are true and, in connection therewith, 
to afford Respondents an opportunity to establish defenses to such allegations; 
        

                                               8
  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

       B.     Whether, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondents should be 
ordered to cease and desist from committing or causing any violation and any future violation of  
Sections 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and13a-13 thereunder; and 
        
       C.     Whether, pursuant to Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, Respondents should be censured or denied, temporarily or 
permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as accountants. 
   
                                              IV. 
 
       IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the 
questions set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened at a time and place to be fixed, and 
before an Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 
of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.110. 
  
       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents shall file an Answer to the allegations 
contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as provided by Rule 
220 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220.  
 
       If any Respondent fails to file the directed answer, or fails to appear at a hearing after 
being duly notified, that Respondent may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be 
determined against it or him upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be 
deemed to be true as provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of the Commission's 
Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R.  §§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f) and 201.310. 
 
       This Order shall be served forthwith upon each Respondent personally or by certified 
mail. 
 
       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an initial 
decision no later than 300 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to Rule 360(a)(2) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  
 
       In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission 
engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually 
related proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter, except 

                                               9
  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

as witness or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice.  Since this proceeding is not “rule  
making” within the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it is not 
deemed subject to the provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any final 
Commission action. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
      Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                               Secretary  
 

                                                 10
  
