---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
 Before                                        the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 62262 / June 10, 2010 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3144 / June 10, 2010 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-13935 
 
                                               
In the Matter of                             ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                             ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS AND 
       L. REX ANDERSEN, CPA,                 IMPOSING TEMPORARY SUSPENSION 
                                             PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e)(3) OF THE 
             Respondent.                     COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE 
                                                                  
 
                                            I. 
 
              The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public admi nistrative proceedings be, and here by are, instituted pursuant to 
Rule 102(e)(3)1
               of the Commission’s Rules of Practice against L. Rex Andersen (“Respondent” or 
“Andersen”).   
 
                                            II. 
 
      The Commission finds that: 
       
      A.     RESPONDENT 
 
             1.     Andersen, age 80, is and  has been a certified pub lic accountant (“CPA”) 
licensed to practice in the State of Nevada and was previously licensed in Arizona and California.  

                                                 
1
             Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission, with due regard to the public  interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any c ourt of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

From approximately 1992 through 2002, he was a partner at Andersen Andersen & Strong, L.C., a 
public accounting firm.  Presently,  he is an accountant at Madsen  & Associates CPA’s Inc. in 
Murray, Utah, a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight 
Board, where he performs audits of public and private companies. 
   
 B.           CIVIL INJUNCTION 
   
              2.           On May 4, 2010, the U.S. District Court for the District of Nevada entered a 
final judgment against Andersen,  permanently enjoining  him from future violations, direct or 
indirect, of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 10b-
5 thereunder and Rule 2-02 of Regulation S-X, and aiding and abetting violations of Section 13(a) 
of the Exchange Act and Rules       12b-20 and 13a-1 thereunder.      Securities and Exchange 
Commission v. Exotics.com, Inc., et al.   , Civil Action Number 2:05-cv-00531-PMP-GWF.  
Andersen also was ordered to pay disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and a civil money penalty 
totaling $126,219.04.  
        
              3.          The Commission’s complaint alleged th at Andersen performed audits of 
the 1999 and 2000 year-end financ     ial statements of Hardrock    Mines, Inc. that were not 
conducted in accordance with generally accepted  auditing standards (“GAAS”), and he caused 
his firm to issue audit reports falsely stating that the financial statements were presented in 
conformity with generally accepted accounting pr  inciples (“GAAP”).  Hardrock Mines (later 
known as Exotics.com, Inc.) was an issuer of         securities that were registered with the 
Commission and approved for quotation on the OT  C Bulletin Board.  The complaint further 
alleged that Andersen did not act as an independ ent auditor during the audits because he himself 
had prepared most of the client’s books and r  ecords and its financial  statements.  Moreover, 
Andersen created the client’s books  and records in reliance on doc uments that he knew, or was 
reckless in not knowing, were fraudulent.  The complaint also alleged that the fraudulent audit 
reports provided by Andersen were incorporated  in public filings made by Hardrock Mines and 
Exotics.com, including a Form 10-SB registration statement and two Form 10-KSB annual 
reports. 
 
                                              III. 
        
       Based upon the foregoing, the Commission finds that a court of competent jurisdiction has 
permanently enjoined Andersen,  a CPA, from violating the Federal securities laws within the 
meaning of Rule 102(e)(3)(i)(A) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  In view of these findings, 
the Commission deems it appropriat e and in the public interest   that Andersen be temporarily 
suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission. 
   
              IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Andersen be, and hereby is, temporarily suspended from 
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an  accountant.  This Or der shall be effective 
upon service on the Respondent. 
 
              IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Andersen may  within thirty days af ter service of this 
Order file a petition with the Co mmission to lift the temporary su spension.  If the Commission 

                                               2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

within thirty days after service of the Order receives no petition, the suspension shall become                                                             
permanent pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(ii). 
  
          If a petition is received within thirty days after service of this Order, the Commission shall, 
within thirty days after the filing of the petition,   either lift the temporary suspension, or set the 
matter down for hearing at  a time and place to be designated  by the Commission, or both.  If a 
hearing is ordered, following the hearing, the Co  mmission may lift the suspension, censure the 
petitioner, or disqualify the petitioner from appe aring or practicing before the Commission for a 
period of time, or permanently, pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(iii). 
 
          This Order shall be served upon Andersen personally or by certified mail at his last known 
address. 
           
 By the Commission. 
 
 
 
 
       Elizabeth M. Murphy 
       Secretary 
 

                                                                 3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
                                               Service List 
 
              Rule 141 of the Commission's Rules of Practice provides that the Secretary, or another duly 
authorized officer of the Commission, shall serve a copy of the Order Instituting Public 
Administrative Proceedings and Imposing Temporary Suspension Pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice ("Order") on the Respondent and his legal agent. 
 
              The attached Order has been sent to the following parties and other persons entitled to 
notice: 
 
Honorable Brenda P. Murray                               
Chief Administrative Law Judge                         
Securities and Exchange Commission  
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, DC 20549-2557                  
                                                    
Silvestre A. Fontes, Esq.                                        
Boston Regional Office                                          
Securities and Exchange Commission                
33 Arch Street, 23rd Floor                        
Boston, MA 02110                                     
                                                       
Mr. L. Rex Andersen                               
c/o O. Robert Meredith, Esq.  
1111 E. Brickyard Rd., Suite 206 
Salt Lake City, UT  84106                      
                                                       
O. Robert Meredith, Esq.  
1111 E. Brickyard Rd., Suite 206 
Salt Lake City, UT  84106        
(Counsel for L. Rex Andersen) 
 
 
  
 
 

                                                     4 
