---------------------Page 1---------------------

                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                           Before the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 75859 / September 9, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3689 / September 9, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16797 
 
                                                      
                                                     ORDER INSTITUTING  PUBLIC 
In the Matter of                                     ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE -AND-
                                                     DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
       Sean C. Henaghan, CPA,                        SECTIONS 4C AND 21C OF THE 
       John E. Rainis, CPA,                          SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, 
       Leland E. Graul, CPA,                         AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
       James J. Gerace, CPA,  and                    COMMISSION ’
       Wendy M. Hambleton, CPA,                
                                                                                                   
Respondent s.                                                                  
 
 
        
                                                I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Sections 
  1
4C  and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of 
                                     2
the Commission’s Rules  of Practice    against Sean C. Henaghan, CPA      (“Henaghan”), John  E. 

                                                 
1
 Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that: 

       The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, 
       to any person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in 
       any way, if that person is found . . . (2) . . .  to have engaged in unethical or 
       improper professional conduct  . 
2
 Rule 102(e)(1) provides, in relevant part:  

               The Commission may censure a person     or deny, temporarily or permanently, the 
               privilege of appearing or practicing before it in any way to any person   who is 
               found . . .  

                                              * * *  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Rainis, CPA (“Rainis”), Leland E. Graul, CPA (“Graul”), and James J. Gerace, CPA (“Gerace”), 
and  pursuant  to  Section  21C  of  the  Exchange  Act  against  Wendy  M.  Hambleton,  CPA 
(“Hambleton”) (Henaghan, Rainis, Graul, Gerace, and Hambleton are referred to collectively as  
“Respondents”).  
                                                   
                                                II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) that the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, which is admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondents 
consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative and Cease-and-Desist 
Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and Rule 
102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (the “Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                                III. 
                                                   
                                                                                  3
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offers, the Commission finds     that:  
 
A.     SUMMARY 
        
                                                                                                   4
       1.      This matter involves improper professional conduct in BDO USA, LLP’s (“BDO”)  
audits of General Employment Enterprises, Inc. (“GEE” or the “Company”), a staffing services 
                                                                                                                                                             
               (ii) to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct. 

                                               * * * 

               (iv) with respect to persons licensed to practice as accountants, “improper 
               professional conduct” under Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) means:  

                                               * * * 

               (B) either of the following two types of negligent conduct:  

                       (1) A single instance of highly unreasonable conduct that results in a 
                       violation of applicable professional standards in circumstances in which an 
                       accountant knows, or should know, that heightened scrutiny is warranted. 

                       (2) Repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a 
                       violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of 
                       competence to practice before the Commission. 

3
 The findings herein a re made pursuant to Re  spondents ’ Offers of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                                   
                                                   

                                                 2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

company whose stock trades on the NYSE MKT.  During BDO’s 2009 audit of GEE’s financial 
statements for its fiscal year ended September 30, 2009, Respondents learned that $2.3 million 
(comprising approximately half of GEE’s assets and substantially all of its cash) was unaccounted 
for when GEE’s chief financial officer (the “GEE CFO”) advised BDO, in November 2009, that 
(a) GEE’s purported 90-day non-renewable certificate of deposit (“CD”) at a New York bank had 
not been repaid by the bank after the stated maturity date in mid-October, (b) GEE was missing 
documentation supporting the CD, and (c) a bank employee had told GEE’s CFO that the bank had 
no record of a CD.  Thereafter, BDO received multiple conflicting stories from GEE management 
and board members concerning both the status of the CD and a series of transfers totaling $2.3 
million made to GEE by three entities unaffiliated with the bank, one of which BDO had been told 
was owned by GEE’s Chairman and majority shareholder.  After BDO raised questions about these 
deposits, GEE’s chief executive officer claimed the deposits were the proceeds of an agreement to 
assign the CD to a purported unrelated party.   

       2.      Henaghan, BDO’s engagement partner, and Rainis, BDO’s concurring partner, 
consulted with senior BDO partners, including Gerace, the assigned BDO regional technical 
director, Graul, BDO’s national director of accounting and risk management partner, and 
Hambleton, BDO’s national SEC practice director.  The consultation resulted in BDO issuing a 
five-page letter, dated December 21, 2009, in which BDO advised GEE of its belief that BDO had 
not been provided sufficient audit evidence to formally conclude on the matter and demanded that 
GEE’s audit committee commission a full investigation of the matter by an independent firm.  
BDO received conflicting information from various sources as to the existence of the CD and 
never received rational explanations as to why the $2.3 million went missing and why an 
equivalent amount was later received under suspect circumstances.  Only days later, however, after 
GEE’s chief executive officer resigned, Respondents agreed to withdraw BDO’s demand for an 
independent investigation and BDO issued an audit report containing an unqualified opinion on 
GEE’s financial statements.  Those financial statements, included in GEE’s Form 10-K filed on 
January 8, 2010, represented that GEE had a $2.3 million cash equivalent in the form of CD as of 
September 30, 2009, and had entered into an assignment agreement to sell the CD for full face 
value to an unrelated party.   

       3.      Approximately two months after GEE filed its 2009 Form 10-K with BDO’s 
unqualified audit opinion, Respondents learned of a criminal complaint against the New York bank 
president.  The criminal complaint alleged, in connection with a wide-ranging conspiracy 
involving, among others, GEE’s then-chief executive officer and GEE’s then-majority shareholder 
and chairman of the board, that (i) GEE’s purported $2.3 million CD never existed, (ii) the bank 
president signed a false confirmation to BDO, (iii) GEE’s $2.3 million was used to attempt to 
conceal a loan default connected to the broader conspiracy, and (iv) the entities that transferred the 
$2.3 million back to GEE were related to the bank president’s co-conspirators, including GEE’s 
then-majority shareholder and chairman of the board.  The bank president pled guilty in October 

                                                                                                                                                             
4
  BDO, formerly known as BDO Seidman, LLP, is a Delaware limited liability partnership and a 
PCAOB   - registered public accounting firm with its  headquarters in Chicago, Illinois.  BDO 
served as GEE  ’s independent auditor from 2004 through 2012. 

                                                   
                                                   

                                                 3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

2010.  Despite this additional new information, Respondents failed to either perform or confirm 
that others performed appropriate audit procedures to determine whether this new information had 
any impact on GEE’s 2009 financial statements or BDO’s audit report thereon.  In addition, BDO 
failed to adequately consider this information during its subsequent audit when it provided an audit 
report containing an unqualified opinion on GEE’s financial statements included in the Company’s 
2010 Form 10-K.  

       4.      Specifically, among other audit failures during the 2009 and 2010 audits of GEE, 
BDO:  (1) failed to adequately plan, design, and perform audit procedures necessary to determine 
the existence of a disputed asset and the existence of related party transactions; (2) failed to obtain 
sufficient competent evidential matter; (3) failed to exercise professional skepticism and due 
professional care; (4) ignored red flags of fraud, potential illegal acts by GEE’s agents, and 
unidentified related party transactions; (5) placed improper reliance on management 
representations from individuals they did not trust; and (6) failed to appropriately consider the 
discovery of new facts.   

       5.      BDO issued audit reports containing unqualified opinions on the financial 
statements in GEE’s 2009 and 2010 Form 10-Ks, which incorrectly stated that GEE had a cash 
equivalent of $2.3 million as of September 30, 2009, and did not disclose that the $2.3 million was 
returned by entities related to GEE’s chairman of the board.  BDO’s reports, which Respondents 
knew would be filed with GEE’s Form 10-Ks, inaccurately stated that the audits had been 
conducted in accordance with standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight 
Board (“PCAOB”) and that GEE’s financial statements presented fairly, in all material respects, 
the company’s position and results at September 30, 2009, in conformity with generally accepted 
accounting principles in the United States of America (“GAAP”). 

B.     RESPONDENTS 
        
       6.      Henaghan, age 42, is a Certified Public Accountant (“CPA”) licensed to practice in 
Illinois and was licensed in Florida from 2010 through 2012.  Henaghan served as the BDO 
engagement partner on the 2009 and 2010 audits of GEE and had final responsibility for the audits.     

       7.      Rainis, age 57, is a CPA licensed to practice in Illinois.  Rainis served as the BDO 
concurring reviewer on the 2009 and 2010 audits of GEE.   
                
       8.      Graul, age 66, is a CPA licensed to practice in Illinois.  Prior to his retirement, 
Graul served as BDO’s national director of accounting and risk management partner when he was 
consulted during the 2009 and 2010 audits of GEE.   
        
       9.      Gerace, age 54, is a CPA licensed to practice in Illinois.  Gerace served as the 
regional technical director of BDO when he was consulted during the 2009 and 2010 audits of 
GEE.   
        

                                                  
                                                  

                                                4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       10.    Hambleton, age 53, is a CPA licensed to practice in Illinois.  Hambleton served as 
BDO’s national SEC practice director when she was consulted during the 2009 and 2010 audits of 
GEE.   
        
C.     ISSUER AND OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES AND INDIVIDUALS 

       11.    GEE is an Illinois corporation headquartered in Oakbrook Terrace, Illinois that 
provides professional placement services and temporary staffing services in certain industries.  
GEE’s common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the 
Exchange Act and trades on the NYSE MKT stock exchange.  GEE files periodic reports, 
including Forms 10-K and 10-Q, with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange 
Act and related rules thereunder. 

       12.    River Falls Financial Services, LLC (“River Falls Financial”), River Falls 
Investments, LLC f/k/a Oxygen Unlimited II, LLC (“River Falls Investments”), River Falls 
Holdings, LLC (“RFH”), Accredited Investor Resources, LLC f/k/a Oxygen Investment 
Partners, LLC (“AIR”), Oxygen Unlimited, LLC (“Oxygen”), O2HR, LLC (“O2HR”), SDH 
Realty, LLC (“SDH”), WTS Acquisition LLC (“WTS”), H2H Holdings, LLC (“H2H”), and 
PSQ, LLC (“PSQ”) (collectively, the “Affiliated Entities”) are purported holding, investment, 
employment-related, and insurance companies.  During at least 2009 and 2010, Wilbur Anthony 
              5
Huff (“Huff”)  exercised substantial financial and management control over numerous entities, 
including, among others, the Affiliated Entities and their holdings.  Huff installed other business 
partners to perform day-to-day operational functions and/or serve as the listed owners, directors, or 
managers.  As a convicted felon, Huff faced legal and practical barriers to operating business 
entities in his own name, particularly business in regulated industries, including employment-
related, insurance, and banking companies.   
        
       13.    Park Avenue Bank (“PAB” or “the Bank”) was a New York State chartered bank 
until it was closed by the New York State Banking Department on March 12, 2010, and the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation was named Receiver.  The Affiliated Entities primarily 
conducted their banking business through PAB.  Charles J. Antonucci, Sr. (“Antonucci”) served 

                                                 
5
 Huff pled guilty to federal mail fraud charges for obtaining insurance premium finance loans 
under false pretens es in the Western District of Kentucky in 2003.    In 2008, the Commission filed 
charges against Huff related to a scheme to misappropriate assets from  and  to record fake letters of 
c redit  at  Certified Services, Inc. (“Certified”).  SEC v. Huff, 08-CV-60315 (S.D. Fla.).  On October 
22, 2010, the Court entered judgment for the Commission against Huff requiring him to pay more 
than $13 million, among other relief.  Separately, after an October 2012 indictment against him, 
Huff pled guilty on December 23, 2014 to an information, which alleged, among other things, that:  
(1) Huff controlled GEE, in whole or in part, by installing other individuals; (2) Huff participated 
with Antonucci in a conspiracy in which they stole $2.3 million from GEE and Huff later returned 
the $2.3 million to GEE from three companies he controlled; and (3) a large portion of the $2.3 
million received by GEE were funds entrusted to Oxygen by its clients for payment of the clients’ 
employment tax and other obligations.  U.S. v. Huff, 12-CR-750 (S.D.N.Y.). 

                                                  
                                                  

                                                 5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

as the president and CEO of PAB from June 2004 until October 2009.  In October 2010, Antonucci 
pled guilty to multiple criminal charges, including securities fraud, bank bribery, embezzlement, 
and providing a false confirmation to BDO of GEE’s purported CD at PAB.  Separately, Park 
Avenue Insurance was a private insurance company owned by Antonucci that was not affiliated 
with PAB.   

       14.    Stephen B. Pence (“Pence”) served as the chairman of the board of GEE from July 
1, 2009, through November 17, 2010.  Although Pence purported to be the sole member and owner 
of PSQ, whose sole asset was the GEE shares representing a controlling stake in the Company as 
of July 1, 2009, PSQ was one of the Affiliated Entities over which Huff exercised substantial 
financial and management control.  PSQ’s acquisition of GEE stake was funded by AIR and 
Oxygen.  Pence also represented to BDO that he was the 100% owner of River Falls Financial, 
another of the Affiliated Entities.  Huff directed substantial monthly payments to Pence ($25,000) 
from several of the Affiliated Entities to ensure his control over, and ability to influence, GEE’s 
operations.  Pence formerly served as the lieutenant governor of Kentucky from 2003 to 2007 and 
the United States Attorney for the Western District of Kentucky from 2001 to 2003.   

       15.    Ronald E. Heineman (“Heineman”) was appointed as the chief executive officer 
(“CEO”) of GEE on July 1, 2009, in connection with PSQ’s acquisition of a controlling stake in 
GEE.  Heineman served as CEO until his resignation on December 23, 2009, in connection with 
the events described herein.  Huff directed substantial monthly payments to Heineman ($15,000) 
from the Affiliated Entities during this time period.    

       16.    Salvatore J. Zizza (“Zizza”) served as the CEO of GEE from December 23, 2009, 
through December 2012.  Prior to his appointment as CEO, Zizza received monthly payments of 
$20,000 from PSQ, which were funded by several of the Affiliated Entities, for purported 
consulting services, and Zizza frequently attended GEE board meetings as an “invited guest.”  In 
2009, businesses owned or operated by Zizza received loans in excess of $1 million that Huff 
directed from certain of the Affiliated Entities.  
        
       17.    Associate-1 was another of Huff’s business partners and was listed or served at 
various times as a manager of River Falls Investments, Oxygen, and O2HR, and as co-manager of 
River Falls Financial with Heineman.  Associate-1 was also involved in PSQ’s acquisition of a 
controlling stake in GEE and attended several GEE board meetings in 2009.  In addition, from July 
2009 until September 2009, Associate-1 was a signatory on GEE’s bank account at PAB despite 
the fact that Associate-1 was not an official employee, officer, or director of the Company.  
Associate-1 also purported to be the owner of WTS (another of the Affiliated Entities), a holding 
company of On-Site Services, Inc. (“On-Site”) and Ameritemps, Inc. (“Ameritemps”), which 
WTS had acquired in January 2009 with funding from other Affiliated Entities.  Almost 
immediately after PSQ’s acquisition of a controlling stake in GEE, Heineman began presenting 
proposals to GEE’s board for GEE to acquire these companies.  For example, at an August 10, 
2009, GEE board meeting, attended by Pence and Zizza, the board authorized Heineman to enter 
into a letter of intent with WTS to acquire On-Site, and Heineman reported that he would present 
another acquisition candidate, Ameritemps, at the September board meeting.   

                                                 
                                                 

                                                6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

D.     BACKGROUND 

       18.    GEE’s May 18, 2009, definitive proxy statement disclosed that, in January 2009, 
GEE began discussions with representatives of River Falls Financial, including Heineman and 
Pence, concerning the possibility of a tender offer and direct cash investment in GEE.  As 
Henaghan learned later in 2009, Huff was also present for one of the relevant meetings.  The proxy 
statement further disclosed that, on February 11, 2009, River Falls Financial and PSQ, a special 
purpose vehicle purportedly formed by Pence, entered into a non-binding letter of intent with GEE 
for a purchase and tender offer agreement to obtain a controlling stake in GEE.   

       19.    According to GEE’s May 18, 2009, definitive proxy statement, on March 30, 2009, 
after negotiations continued following the February 2009 non-binding letter of intent, Pence signed 
on behalf of PSQ a definitive securities purchase and tender offer agreement (the “Purchase 
Agreement”).  The Purchase Agreement provided that, subject to shareholder approval, PSQ would 
acquire a controlling stake in GEE by (1) purchasing 7,700,000 newly-issued shares of GEE 
common stock in a private placement transaction at a purchase price of $0.25 per share for a total 
purchase price of $1,925,000; (2) commencing a cash tender offer to purchase from the Company’s 
shareholders up to 2,500,000 shares of common stock at a purchase price of $0.60 per share; (3) 
appointing three directors to a five-member board of directors, including Pence becoming the 
chairman of the board; and (4) designating Heineman GEE’s CEO.  On June 22, 2009, a GEE 
press release announced that shareholders approved the Purchase Agreement and the closing of the 
Purchase Agreement was announced on July 1, 2009.  As a result, PSQ acquired more than 65% 
ownership of the Company, Pence became GEE’s chairman and appointed two other directors, and 
Heineman became GEE’s CEO. 

       20.    As part of the July 2009 closing of PSQ’s purchase agreement with GEE, GEE 
opened a checking account at PAB into which PSQ’s escrowed $1,925,000 would be deposited 
upon the closing.  According to PAB records received by Henaghan in 2009, in June 2009, 
Associate-1 coordinated with GEE’s chief financial officer (the “GEE CFO”) to have the GEE 
checking account opened at PAB and the authorized signatories on the account were the GEE 
CFO, Pence, and Associate-1.  Those PAB records also indicated that the GEE CFO, Pence, and 
Associate-1 remained the only authorized signatories on the account until September 2009, at 
which time Associate-1 was removed and Heineman was added.  Following the closing in early 
July 2009, GEE transferred an additional $750,000 from GEE’s accounts at other banks to the 
GEE PAB checking account.  The approximately $2.6 million deposited in the GEE PAB checking 
account constituted substantially all of GEE’s cash and half of its assets.   
        
       21.    According to information received by BDO’s engagement partner, Henaghan, 
GEE’s CFO identified that $2.3 million had been withdrawn from the GEE PAB operating account 
on July 23, 2009, without the GEE CFO’s knowledge.  The GEE CFO reported to Henaghan that 
when he asked about the withdrawn funds, GEE’s CEO Heineman claimed that he had authorized 
GEE to invest $2.3 million into a CD at PAB.  The GEE CFO also informed Henaghan that, 
although he had repeatedly requested documentation concerning the purported CD, such as a 
written approval or account agreement—and cited the lack of documentation as a control 
deficiency—Heineman only provided the GEE CFO with a one-page PDF of a typewritten 

                                                
                                                

                                               7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

“Certificate of Deposit Receipt” for $2.3 million with a single maturity date of October 21, 2009 
and interest rate of two percent.    
        
E.     BDO RECEIVED INCONSISTENT EVIDENCE CONCERNING THE 
       PURPORTED CD AND THE EXISTENCE OF RELATED PARTY 
       TRANSCTIONS 
        
       22.    GEE’s fiscal year ended on September 30, 2009.  As part of its audit of GEE, BDO 
addressed confirmations for GEE’s bank accounts, including the purported CD, to a PAB vice 
president and branch manager.  In October, BDO received a confirmation signed by that vice 
president for the operating account and a confirmation signed by the PAB president Antonucci for 
the purported CD.  BDO concurring partner Rainis noted that it was “unusual” for the PAB 
president to sign the confirmation.  
        
       23.    On October 19, 2009, the GEE CFO provided to audit committee members and 
BDO’s engagement partner, Henaghan, a report of the evaluation of internal control for fiscal year 
2009, which noted the purported PAB CD as an identified control deficiency.  The report noted 
that“[t]he transaction was not executed by the office of the Treasurer, and no written approval or 
account agreement was provided to the accounting department” and that “it did not conform to the 
company’s investment guidelines” because it did not provide sufficient diversification and PAB 
did not meet GEE’s size requirement.  However, the report concluded that the control deficiency 
did not constitute a material weakness.  BDO concurred with this assessment.   
        
       24.    In early November 2009, the GEE CFO noticed that PAB had not remitted the 
proceeds of the purported CD of $2.3 million plus interest into GEE’s operating account upon the 
maturity date, October 21, 2009.  When the GEE CFO contacted PAB, a PAB representative stated 
that the Bank had no record of the purported CD in its system and then refused to investigate the 
matter any further.  On November 18, 2009, the GEE CFO conveyed this information to the BDO 
engagement partner Henaghan.  The GEE CFO also communicated this information to GEE’s 
audit committee chairman (the “AC Chair”). 
        
       25.    Also in November 2009, BDO partners Henaghan, the engagement partner, Graul, 
BDO’s national director of accounting and risk management partner, and Gerace, the assigned 
BDO regional technical director, reviewed background check reports of Heineman and Associate-1 
that identified potential concerns.  As part of BDO’s client retention procedures, BDO had 
procured a background check of Heineman because he was the new CEO of GEE and of 
Associate-1 because he purportedly owned On-Site, a subsidiary of WTS that GEE intended to 
acquire and which BDO agreed to audit, with Henaghan serving as the engagement partner on that 
audit.  Those background checks revealed that: 
        
     A 2009 lawsuit named GEE’s CEO Heineman as a defendant and alleged that he received a 
       fraudulent distribution of in excess of $2 million in cash from a bankrupt company he 
       formally ran. 

                                                
                                                

                                               8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

     Associate-1 served as the chief operating officer of a subsidiary of Certified.  The 
       Commission had alleged in a 2008 complaint that Huff was an “undisclosed control 
       person” who, with others, stole $30 million from Certified.  

     Associate-1 and Heineman were co-managers of River Falls Financial, and participated in 
       negotiating PSQ’s acquisition of GEE shares.   

     Heineman and Associate-1 had several substantial personal tax liens. 

       26.    At a November 23, 2009, audit committee meeting, attended by BDO engagement 
partner Henaghan and concurring partner Rainis, the GEE CFO reported his concerns that GEE 
had little documentation supporting the purported CD, including no written authorization from an 
account signatory and no deposit agreement.  According to the audit committee minutes, 
Heineman claimed that he authorized the purported CD at Pence’s direction, and claimed the lack 
of documentation was due to “the rapid pace of the transactions in which he had been involved, 
coupled with reorganization and personnel changes at Park Avenue Bank.”  Heineman next stated 
that he had anticipated that the CD would be maintained on a continuing renewal basis but he had 
asked Pence to liquidate the purported CD and have the funds transferred into the PAB checking 
account by the end of the week.  The minutes also state that Henaghan “said that the audit was 
substantially completed, pending resolution of the missing funds issue, receipt of legal letters from 
counsel, and the executed management representation letter” and that BDO “would be issuing an 
unqualified opinion on the consolidated financial statements.”    
        
       27.    On November 24, 2009, Henaghan emailed the AC Chair, stating that the GEE 
CFO had “indicated there was an update on the CD and that the funds would be returned in 
installments.  I am not sure if you can provide any further clarity on why this would be.  I wanted 
to check with you before I had another discussion with [Heineman].”  The AC Chair replied that he 
“[could] not provide any clarity” and expressed concern that one of the audit committee members 
(the “AC Member”) “seems to be tied in with this group.”  The AC Member had been appointed 
by Pence in connection with the PSQ transaction in July.   
        
       28.    Henaghan replied to the AC Chair the following day, November 25, 2009, that he 
had spoken to Heineman that morning and Heineman indicated that Pence and the AC Member 
“were taking the lead on this as they have a previous working relationship with the bank.”  
Henaghan also noted that Heineman, however, had “disagreed with the fact that the CD would be 
‘paid back in installments’” and had “indicated that the proceeds of the CD would be in the 
Company’s bank account by Monday.”  
        
       29.    By the following Monday, November 30, 2009, GEE still had not obtained the $2.3 
million in proceeds of the purported CD from PAB.  That day, Pence, Heineman, and Zizza 
attended a GEE board of directors meeting.  Zizza, who had no formal role at GEE at this time, 
attended as an “invited guest.”  The board minutes indicate that the AC Chair explained that the 
Company’s Form 10-K had not yet been filed because BDO’s “final” opinion was predicated on 
the satisfactory accounting for the PAB CD and an explanation for where GEE’s funds had been 
since the CD matured on October 21.  During this November 30, 2009, board meeting, the AC 
                                                 
                                                 

                                                9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

Member stated he believed that the situation occurred as a result of administrative errors on the 
part of the Bank, and Pence said that the AC Member had agreed to pursue the matter with PAB.  
Neither Pence nor Heineman mentioned anything about GEE selling or assigning the purported CD 
               6
to a third party.   

       30.    By December 3, 2009, Henaghan learned that GEE had received four transfers from 
SDH and Oxygen totaling $1 million.  On December 3, 2009, the AC Member, who had been 
tasked by Pence with contacting PAB about the purported CD, told the AC Chair and BDO 
engagement partner Henaghan that PAB was sending GEE the $2.3 million proceeds of the 
purported CD.  The AC Member also told Henaghan that the Bank had made an “administrative 
error” and would provide a short apology note.    
        
       31.    After consulting with fellow BDO partners Rainis and Gerace, Henaghan sent 
GEE’s AC Chair an email on December 4, 2009, summarizing the open items requiring resolution 
prior to the issuance of BDO’s audit report:  (1) the purported CD; (2) identification of potential 
related parties to Pence; and (3) additional subsequent event procedures.  The email begins by 
noting that after the CD had matured in October 2009, when the GEE CFO had contacted the 
Bank, a PAB representative informed the GEE CFO that there was no record of the purported CD 
and that after some investigation by the AC Member, “in late November it was determined that the 
funds would be returned to GEE in installments.”  The email then notes that GEE had received the 
following wire transfers:  (i) November 24:  $300,000 wire transfer from SDH; (ii) November 25:  
$300,000 wire transfer from Oxygen; (iii) November 27:  $300,000 wire transfer from SDH; and 
(iv) December 1:  $100,000 wire transfer from Oxygen.  Henaghan’s email then noted that he had 
discussed the matter with Heineman and Pence, who both referred him to the AC Member who 
was working directly with PAB on the matter, and that the AC Member left him a voicemail 
“indicating the bank continues to put money against the CD they owe [GEE] and it should be fully 
repaid by the close of business on Monday, Dec. 7” and that the Bank would provide a short 
apology note.  Henaghan’s email continued:    

       [G]iven the highly unusual nature of this issue and the significant amount of time it 
       is taking to recover the funds, it is critical that we understand both the nature of the 
       administrative error as well as the underlying cause of this error....  As I have never 
       encountered such an issue with a bank or CD and any reasonable person (including 
       the PCAOB or SEC) would certainly question such an issue, I need to be in a 
       position to fully explain exactly what occurred…. As such, from an audit 
       perspective I will require the following prior to issuance of the fiscal 2009 financial 
       statements: 

               -Source documents (bank statements, etc.) showing the flow of funds from 
               the closing of the PSQ transaction through the date the funds are fully 

                                                 
6
 BDO engagement partner Henaghan       and concurring partner Rainis  confirmed in the workpaper 
index that they  reviewed all of the minutes for the GEE  board and audit committee meetings 
discussing the purported CD issue.  

                                                  
                                                  

                                                 10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

               transferred to Chase bank in December 2009 (including an understanding of 
               where the CD funds were disbursed upon maturity of the CD in October) 

               -Explanation as to why the funds received in November and December are 
               being wire transferred from entities other than Park Avenue Bank 

               -To corroborate this documentation, we may request to meet with someone 
               at Park Avenue Bank to understand the nature of the administrative error 

               -A written report by management or others to fully explain the 
               circumstances surrounding the matter including steps [GEE] took to gain its 
               understanding of what transpired.... 

       Also, as the $2.3 million is critical to our assessment of the Company’s ability to 
       continue as a going concern, it is important for us to understand this situation so as 
       to gain comfort that the funds will remain available to the Company to fund 
       operations as needed. 
        
       32.    Henaghan’s December 4 email also noted as an open item that he had a 
conversation with Pence that day “to gain an understanding of other investments he has to make 
sure we have appropriately identified any potential related parties and may have a few follow up 
questions regarding that matter.”  One of the items Henaghan had spoken to Pence about was the 
ownership of River Falls Financial, of which Pence had indicated he was the 100% owner.    
        
       33.    Shortly after receiving it, the AC Chair forwarded Henaghan’s email to Heineman, 
Pence, the AC Member, the GEE CFO, and GEE’s board, noting:  “Multiple representatives of 
BDO have told me that they will not sign off on the GEE Audit . . . until they have sufficient 
documentation of what has transpired.  [BDO’s] position is that the Liabilities associated with a 
sign-off far exceed any past or potential future Audit Fees that [they] have received or will receive.  
The high level message is that a letter of apology from Park Avenue Bank will not be sufficient.”  
Henaghan received a copy of this email and replied to all:  “To clarify, [our] primary concern is 
getting an understanding of exactly what has occurred in order to allow us to complete our audit 
procedures.  As I am sure everyone would agree, what has transpired over the last few weeks with 
the funds at [PAB] has been highly unusual.  I know everyone has been working to resolve the 
issue.  However, time continues to pass and [GEE’s] filing deadline will be here before we know it.  
As such, I wanted to clarify the importance of appropriately addressing the issue as quickly as 
possible to allow us to complete the audit.”   
        
       34.    Later in the day on December 4, the AC Chair sent an email to Henaghan and 
Rainis summarizing his call with the AC Member, stating that when he spoke with the AC 
Member “he told me that [PAB] had reported these transaction [sic] to the FDIC and that the 
money sent to the various entities that are now sending GEE the money are sending us the banks 
money rather than sending it back to the bank.”  The AC Chair continued:  “This makes absolutely 
no sense.  It looks like [PAB] is on the verge of failing.  The FDIC and a bankruptcy estate are 

                                                  
                                                  

                                                11 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

going to require [PAB] to collect every cent they can under loans or other arrangements to settle 
with the creditors of the bank before they send money to third parties.”   
        
       35.    The following day, on December 5, 2009, the AC Chair emailed GEE’s board and 
Heineman calling for a special audit committee meeting on December 9 because of “several 
unanswered questions related to $2.3 million of the Company’s cash which supposedly was 
invested in a Certificate of Deposit (‘CD’) at Park Avenue Bank which will need to be answered 
before BDO will complete their Audit Report for the Company’s fiscal year ended September 30, 
2009.”  The AC Chair’s email noted several issues, including that (i) there was no account 
agreement with PAB or regular reporting on the CD; (ii) PAB did not remit the proceeds of the CD 
into GEE’s operating account when it reached its maturity date on October 21, 2009; (iii) PAB 
provided no explanation to the GEE CFO when he attempted to investigate; and (iv) the AC 
Member who took the lead on this matter with PAB “was informed on or about November 21, 
2009 that the funds would be returned to [GEE] in a series of deposits.”  The email also provided a 
chart of seven wire transfers totaling $1.7 million, which included the four noted in Henaghan’s 
December 4 email plus a December 2, 2009, wire transfer from Oxygen for $100,000, a December 
2, 2009, wire transfer from River Falls Financial of $300,000, and a December 3, 2009, wire 
transfer from River Falls Financial also for $300,000.  The address listed for both SDH and River 
Falls Financial on each of their wire transfers in the chart was 11921 Brinley Ave, Louisville, KY.  
BDO’s engagement partner Henaghan received a copy of the AC Chair’s December 5 email and 
forwarded it to Rainis, Gerace, and BDO’s general counsel.   
        
       36.    River Falls Financial was the entity that Henaghan had just been told was 100% 
owned by Pence.  BDO had also learned in conducting background investigations that Associate-1 
and Heineman were co-managers of River Falls Financial.   
        
       37.    On December 4 and December 9, 2009, GEE received two additional wire transfers 
from River Falls Financial for $300,000 each, bringing the total amount received by GEE from 
River Falls Financial to $1.2 million and the total of the nine wire transfers to $2.3 million, the 
same amount that Heineman had purported to invest in a CD.   
        
       38.    On December 8, the AC Chair emailed Henaghan, providing some links he 
suggested Henaghan review before Henaghan had a conversation with the AC Member and any 
representatives of PAB, “particularly the Anthony Huff links” and explained that he “met Anthony 
Huff when we went to New York” to negotiate PSQ’s acquisition.  The email included links to a 
press release announcing the Commission’s lawsuit against Huff, a link to Huff’s website noting 
the address 11921 Brinley Avenue, Louisville, KY in the text of the email, and a link to the 
website for Oxygen noting the identical address.  This is the same address that appeared in the 
wires sent to GEE by River Falls Financial and SDH, as noted in the AC Chair’s December 5 
email described in paragraph 36, above.  Also, Huff’s website at the time contained references to 
River Falls Investments, SDH, Oxygen, and O2HR.   
        
       39.    In addition to the background checks of Heineman and Associate-1 discussed in 
paragraph 26, on November 23 and December 21, Henaghan, Rainis, and Gerace participated in 

                                                 
                                                 

                                                12 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

phone calls with Associate-1.  According to Henaghan’s notes of the calls, they discussed Huff’s 
connections to River Falls Financial and River Falls Investments and the Commission’s lawsuit 
against Huff “alleging fraudulent transfer of assets & non-disclosure of related party transactions.”  
Associate-1 told them that Huff’s wife was the original 100% owner of River Falls Financial 
before it was sold to Pence.  Associate-1 also told them that, through a family trust, Huff had a 
70% ownership interest in River Falls Investments.   
        
       40.    Also on December 8, 2009, the day before the special audit committee meeting, the 
AC Chair received an email from Heineman to the audit committee with several attachments.  
Heineman’s email purported to offer a new explanation for why GEE had received $2.3 million 
from the three entities rather than PAB.  Heineman claimed that he had negotiated an assignment 
agreement with the manager of River Falls Investments (Associate-1), who “offered to purchase” 
the purported CD from GEE at face value.  Heineman also attached to his email an unsigned, draft 
assignment agreement and a letter from Heineman to PAB, dated July 21, 2009, that purportedly 
authorized the $2.3 million CD investment.  Heineman’s email also attached a July 2009 monthly 
statement for GEE’s operating account at PAB, which included the description of the $2.3 million 
withdrawal as a debit on July 23 with a debit memo stating in handwriting:  “To:  Park Avenue 
Insurance, See Attachment Approval, $2,300,000.00.”   
        
       41.    The AC Chair responded to Heineman’s email that day, stating: “Given the chain of 
event[s] you described below, why was GEE not informed immediately when River Falls 
Investments purchased the CD and why are we just now learning that a law firm has been engaged 
to document the assignment of the CD?  We have been asking questions about the CD now for 
nearly a month.”  BDO engagement partner Henaghan received a copy of Heineman’s email with 
attachments and the AC Chair’s reply email.  On a printout of the AC Chair’s reply email, BDO 
engagement partner Henaghan wrote “$ Anthony Huff.”   
        
       42.    Henaghan also exchanged emails with the AC Chair later that day, noting his 
agreement with the AC Chair’s questions to Heineman and that “the sale of the CD would 
constitute a related party transaction which typically should be approved by the board.”  The AC 
Chair replied to Henaghan that he had just spoken to Heineman and Heineman “claims that RFI 
(River Falls Investment) is 100% owned by [Associate-1] and is not related to River Falls 
Financial Services or any of the other entities.”  Henaghan replied, “That is consistent with what [] 
Pence told me in my conversation with him.  The common names are a little strange though.”   
        
       43.    Prior to the December 9, 2009, special audit committee meeting, BDO had learned 
of several indications of fraud relating to the purported CD.  Moreover, during the 2009 audit of 
GEE, BDO became aware of multiple indications that the purported assignment agreement with 
River Falls Investments was a related party transaction, including: 
        
     the common names of River Falls Investments (purportedly owned by a Huff family trust 
       and Associate-1) and River Falls Financial (purportedly owned by Pence, GEE’s 
       chairman); 

                                                 
                                                 

                                                13 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

     River Falls Financial had sent GEE $1.2 million in four installments in connection with the 
       assignment agreement ; 

     Heineman and Associate-1 were co-managers of River Falls Financial; 

     Associate-1 was a signatory for GEE’s operating account at PAB from July to September 
       2009, when the $2.3 million was purportedly invested in a CD; 

     Heineman’s email address was rheineman@riverfallsfinancialgroup.com; 

     The validity of a business purpose for River Falls Investments to purchase the CD at face 
       value was questionable given that (i) PAB stated that it had no record of the purported CD 
       in its system; and (ii) GEE did not have a binding agreement in its possession concerning 
       its purported purchase of the CD with PAB; 

     River Falls Investments was not listed in GEE’s banking records as the originator of the 
       wire transfers that were purported to be in connection with the assignment agreement.  
       GEE received the payments from SDH, River Falls Financial, and Oxygen—all of which 
       were made before a binding agreement with River Falls Investments was executed; and 

     River Falls Financial, River Falls Investments, SDH, Oxygen, and Huff all shared a 
       common address:  11921 Brinley Avenue in Louisville, KY 40234. 

       44.    Prior to the GEE special audit committee meeting scheduled for December 9, 2009, 
Henaghan alerted Rainis, Gerace, and BDO’s Midwest Regional Business Line Leader (the “BDO 
Midwest Leader”) of Heineman’s new explanation concerning the assignment agreement and each 
of them attended the meeting.  According to the audit committee meeting minutes: 
        
     Henaghan expressed concern that BDO still did not have a clear understanding of the 
       purported CD transaction.   

     Henaghan said that BDO needed to understand the nature of the purported administrative 
       errors at PAB that he had been told were responsible for the lack of proper documentation 
       regarding the CD transaction.  Henaghan also explained that BDO required documentation 
       validating the banking transactions, and an explanation as to why there was no existence of 
       an account agreement with the Bank or no record of the CD being at the bank. 

     The BDO Midwest Leader said he believed members of GEE’s senior management 
       appeared hesitant to provide information related to these transactions.   

     Henaghan stated that the assignment agreement did not resolve the outstanding issues as 
       BDO still needed to know what transpired within PAB and make a determination of 
       whether the assignment agreement with River Falls Investments was a related party 
       transaction. 

                                                 
                                                 

                                               14 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

     BDO also advised that although the assignment agreement “may reduce or eliminate the 
       need for going concern disclosure, it would increase the requirement that management 
       provide sufficient disclosure regarding any related party conflicts.”   

       45.    On December 14, 2009, GEE’s outside counsel sent PAB a formal letter requesting 
all documentation and information concerning the purported CD.  BDO received a copy of this 
letter.  PAB’s December 16, 2009, response, also received by BDO, provided only documents 
relating to GEE’s checking account and did not provide any documents or other information about 
the purported CD.  The checking account documentation, however, indicated that only 
Associate-1, the GEE CFO, and Pence were authorized signers on GEE’s account from July to 
September 2009—not Heineman—and the checking account statements reflected a debit memo for 
the transfer of $2.3 million of GEE’s cash to Park Avenue Insurance on July 23, 2009.   

       46.    On Friday, December 18, 2009, BDO received a letter from GEE’s general counsel 
that attached the final assignment agreement, dated December 11, and a letter from Associate-1 
claiming that the $2.3 million sent to GEE by SDH, Oxygen, and River Falls Financial originated 
from River Falls Investments and its “wholly owned subsidiaries or affiliates.”  The letter 
concluded:  “The entirety, sans interest, used by the Company for the purchase of the CD was 
received into the Company’s Chase bank account….  Since time is certainly of the essence to 
complete the audit work for the Form 10-K to be filed by the Company no later than December 31, 
2009, we believe that any open concerns your firm had with respect to the source of the initial 
concerns over the CD are now resolved.”  The letter did not provide any additional information 
concerning what had happened with the purported CD and why Associate-1 and River Falls 
Investments would pay face value for the purported CD which PAB had not honored and had no 
records to support.  

       47.    Following the receipt of the December 18 letter, BDO partners Henaghan, Rainis, 
and Gerace requested consultation with Graul, BDO’s national director of accounting and risk 
management partner, Hambleton, BDO’s national director of SEC practice, and BDO’s general 
counsel.  After discussion of the situation, these BDO partners agreed they should inform GEE that 
the December 18 letter did not fully address the questions BDO had raised and demand that the 
audit committee commission an independent investigation to determine exactly what happened.   

F.     BDO DEMANDED AN INDEPENDENT INVESTIGATION AND, SHORTLY 
       THEREAFTER, WITHDREW THE DEMAND  
        
       48.    On Monday, December 21, 2009, Henaghan sent an email to Graul and Hambleton, 
copying Rainis and Gerace, stating:  “This morning we informed the [AC Chair] that we will 
require an independent investigation of the CD matter in order to conclude the audit of General 
Employment (consistent with our discussions with you on Friday.)  Attached is our proposed 
written communication.”  The five-page draft communication described in detail much of the 
inconsistent evidence BDO had received concerning the purported CD and the purported 
assignment agreement with River Falls Investments and also included a number of proposed 
questions.  Graul responded:   
        

                                                
                                                

                                               15 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

       We do not owe the Board any explanation other than our “audit” of the CD 
       in question is incomplete because we have been unable to obtain sufficient 
       evidence to support the existence and ownership of this asset.  You could 
       say that we have obtained bits and pieces of evidence[] but are not satisfied 
       with the sufficiency of such evidence to support our opinion on the financial 
       statements.  You could also say that because of the unusual circumstances 
       surrounding the evidence provided thus far, we concluded that the Board 
       should undertake a full investigation of the matter.   

       49.    Later that day, Hambleton replied to Graul’s email, asking whether they “should go 
into detail of the issues in the letter.”  Graul responded to Hambleton:  “Short of saying we think 
there is fraud, the point is we have been looking for support for months and don’t have anything 
satisfactory to support a final opinion.  If we give a list of questions, we’ll get answers to those 
questions and still not know what is really going on.  An independent investigation is the only way 
to get to the bottom of this.  The list doesn’t look like it would get us there.” 

       50.    Also on December 21, 2009, BDO partners Henaghan, Rainis, and Gerace 
questioned Associate-1 about the assignment agreement and Huff’s involvement with GEE, River 
Falls Financial, and River Falls Investments.  According to summary notes of the call, Associate-
1’s explanation for why River Falls Financial, purportedly owned by Pence, wired payments of 
$300,000 each to GEE on four days (December 2, 3, 4, and 9), was that the funds were “initially 
inadvertently transferred to the [River Falls Financial] account rather than the GEE account.”  
Associate-1 also informed them that Huff’s wife was the original 100% owner of River Falls 
Financial and that Pence acquired the company in 2009.  The notes also reflect that Associate-1 
conveyed that through a trust Huff has an ownership interest in River Falls Investments.  
Associate-1 further told them that he was familiar with Park Avenue Insurance and he believes it 
“is insolvent at this point.”     

       51.    Ultimately it was determined that the detailed letter would be sent and, early on 
December 22, 2009, Henaghan sent GEE’s AC Chair a five-page letter, dated December 21, 2009, 
in substantially the same form as Henaghan had internally circulated earlier.  Henaghan’s letter 
identified a number of inconsistencies in the audit evidence BDO had received regarding the 
purported CD: 

     BDO had not received “sufficient audit evidence” to support the existence of a CD 
       investment as of September 30, 2009.  The questions raised in regards to the CD at both the 
       November and December audit committee meetings remained unaddressed.   

     BDO had not received an adequate explanation from PAB as to the whereabouts of the $2.3 
       million after July 23, 2009, because the Bank claimed to have no record of a CD in its 
       system.  PAB never “repaid the CD proceeds or provided an adequate explanation 
       regarding the status of the CD.”   

                                                  
                                                  

                                                 16 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

     BDO had “requested (but not been granted) an opportunity to speak directly with [PAB] 
                             7
       regarding this matter.”  

     The July 2009 PAB statement “indicates the amount was transferred to Park Avenue 
       Insurance.  We would like to understand why it appears that the funds were transferred to 
       Park Avenue Insurance and were not invested into a CD. . . .  [M]anagement has provided 
       no explanation for this.  The documentation also appears to indicate that prior to September 
       2009, [Associate-1] was an authorized signor on the Company’s operating account.”  

     Heineman’s statements to BDO:  (1) claiming on November 23 that “the issue would be 
       resolved and the funds deposited in the Company’s bank account within a few days”—
       which did not happen; (2) stating on November 25 that the money would not be “paid back 
       in installments”—which did happen; (3) claiming GEE would have the proceeds by 
       November 30—which did not happen; (4) asserting on December 8 that he negotiated the 
       assignment with Associate-1—but “during [BDO’s] earlier discussions with Mr. Heineman 
       he had represented that he was not involved in the process of resolving the issues related to 
       the CD.”  

     BDO received conflicting reports regarding the return of the CD funds:  (1) the AC 
       Member stated on December 4 that “the bank continues to put money against the CD they 
       owe the Company and it should be fully repaid”; (2) Pence and Heineman referred BDO to 
       the AC Member; and (3) “In all discussions leading up to December 7, 2009, no one ever 
       indicated that the CD had been assigned to [Associate-1].”   

     “At the December 9, 2009 audit committee meeting, general counsel and one audit 
       committee member requested that BDO not be present for the discussion regarding 
       the CD matter.” 

     BDO had not received a clear explanation as to why River Falls Investments would 
       purchase the CD that the Bank has said does not exist, why River Falls Investments 
       would transfer funds to GEE before an assignment agreement had been executed, 
       and whether Associate-1’s intent to sell companies to GEE was related to his 
       agreement to purchase the CD.   

     “Approximately $900,000 of the proceeds recovered by the Company was received 
       from River Falls Financial Services.  [BDO] had previously been informed that 
       River Falls Financial Services was 100% owned by Steve Pence.  However, in a 
       December 18, 2009 telephone conversation with Steve Pence, he was unable to 
       explain why these amounts were transferred from River Falls Financial Services (as 
       the proceeds were for [Associate-1’s] purchase of the CD).” 
        

                                                 
7
  BDO never  contacted PAB or   spoke   to anyone from PAB   after learning that PAB failed to 
repay the CD proceeds  .   

                                                  
                                                  

                                                17 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

       52.    Henaghan’s letter indicated that he included specific facts in the letter “to illustrate 
that it appears that management has not been forthcoming with information surrounding this 
matter.  This fact pattern has caused us to raise the level of scrutiny surrounding this issue.” 
        
       53.    At the end of his letter, Henaghan stated that BDO did not have sufficient audit 
evidence at that time to formally conclude the audit and demanded an independent investigation: 
 
       While BDO recognizes that the issue related to the CD may be the result of 
       potential administrative or other errors at [PAB], we do not believe we have been 
       provided sufficient audit evidence to formally conclude on this matter at this point.  
       As a result of the fact that almost one month has passed since the first audit 
       committee meeting discussing this matter, that it appears management has not been 
       fully forthcoming on how it was resolving the issue, and certain question remain 
       unanswered, we will require the audit committee to commission a full investigation 
       of this matter prior to the completion of our audit for the year ended September 30, 
       2009.  This investigation should be conducted by an independent firm that is 
       acceptable to our firm and should address the following unexplained matters: 

         Why would the Company maintain $2.3 million at Park Avenue Bank in direct 
           violation of its own investment policy? 
         Why was [Associate-1] an authorized signor on the Company’s account at Park 
           Avenue Bank? 
         What happened to the CD? We would like an explanation for all of the facts 
           noted above surrounding the situation. 
         Why did the Company not pursue legal action against the bank and report the 
           situation to the FDIC when the bank failed to reimburse the Company when the 
           CD matured? 
         Why would Mr. Heineman & Mr. Pence represent they were unaware of the 
           status of the CD resolution and why funds were being received from entities 
           other than Park Avenue Bank when it appears they were aware of the 
           assignment agreement with [Associate-1]? 
         Why would [Associate-1] be willing to purchase an asset whose value is in 
           question when he has no relationship to the Company? 
         Why did River Falls Financial Services reimburse the Company for the CD if 
           they did not have any relationship with [Associate-1] and were not a party to the 
           assignment agreement? 
         We would like a clear understanding of the relationships between [Associate-1], 
           Mr. Pence and Mr. Heineman and any entities where they may have joint 
           ownership? 
         What is the relationship between [Associate-1], Mr. Pence, Mr. Heineman and 
           Park Avenue Bank? 

       Please note that the issues listed above represent[] some of the areas of concern 
       based on our current understanding of the facts.  The above items should not be 

                                                  
                                                  

                                                18 
---------------------Page 19---------------------

       considered an all-inclusive list and the investigation should not be limited to the 
       above identified items.  We may identify additional questions and require additional 
       audit evidence based on the results of the investigation.  BDO recommends that this 
       investigation be commissioned as soon as possible. 
 
       54.    On the evening of December 22, 2009, Respondents learned that the audit 
committee meeting that was scheduled for the following day had been cancelled, Zizza, an advisor 
to Pence who had attended GEE board meetings through the fall of 2009, would be taking over as 
CEO, and that Pence and Associate-1 intended to prepare written responses to each of the issues 
identified in the December 21 letter.  In email exchanges that evening and the following morning 
regarding these events, Henaghan, Gerace, Hambleton, and the BDO Midwest Leader agreed that 
BDO should communicate to GEE in writing that BDO “will continue to require an independent 
investigation.”   
        
       55.    Following Zizza’s appointment as GEE’s new CEO, BDO partners Henaghan, 
Rainis, Gerace, and the BDO Midwest Leader spoke to Zizza and the AC Chair on December 24, 
2009.  A senior partner in BDO’s New York office (the “NY Partner”) also attended the call 
because he handled some of Zizza’s other business relationships with BDO, including audit or tax 
work for Zizza’s private company and three public companies for which Zizza served as a board 
member.  Henaghan later wrote a memo describing the December 24 call, stating that Zizza 
“requested that BDO conclude the audit without the need for an independent investigation” 
because of “the change in management and the fact that the Company had recovered full control of 
the $2.3 million in question” and that the AC Chair agreed.  The memo also indicates that both 
Zizza and the AC Chair “acknowledged that some inappropriate actions were taken within the 
Company and that it was likely that even more inappropriate actions were taken at the Bank” and 
that both “felt that with [Heineman’s] removal from the management team, the inappropriate 
actions within the Company would stop.”   
        
       56.    Also on December 24, BDO partners Henaghan, Rainis, and Gerace had a 
telephone conversation with Pence, Zizza, and the AC Chair.  According to a memo Henaghan 
later wrote describing this call, Pence indicated he asked GEE to move its business to PAB because 
of his prior working relationship as an attorney for Antonucci, PAB’s then-President, and 
Associate-1’s association with PAB as a customer.  The memo also indicates that Pence had told 
BDO that the reason he represented he was unaware of the status of the CD resolution and why 
funds were being received from entities other than PAB was because “he was unaware of the 
assignment agreement until after the funds were returned to the Company.”  The memo further 
noted that Associate-1’s explanation for why River Falls Financial transferred funds to GEE was 
because River Falls Financial “also has an operating account” at the same bank and “[t]he funds 
were transferred from one of his companies to [River Falls Financial] in error,” and as such, River 
Falls Financial “then had to transfer the funds to GEE.”      
        
       57.    After these calls with Zizza, Pence, and the AC Chair, Henaghan sent Rainis, Graul, 
Gerace, Hambleton, the NY Partner, the BDO Midwest Leader, and BDO’s general counsel an 
email on December 24, 2009, asking for their availability for a call and stating he was drafting a 

                                                 
                                                 

                                                19 
---------------------Page 20---------------------

memo summarizing current facts.  Graul responded:  “Unless there is something new that hasn’t 
been discussed in the last few calls, what’s the purpose?”  The NY Partner replied:  “The purpose 
is to try to salvage an account where they made [] changes in the management because of the 
alleged wrongdoing.”  Graul responded:  “Did they change the guy that can’t support the $2 
million that supposedly was put into company?  What about the two audit committee members that 
stalled the investigation and the lawyer that wouldn’t let us participate in a board meeting to 
preserve privilege.  There’s something funny going on here.”  The NY Partner replied that he had 
no disagreement with Graul on the last point. 

       58.    BDO’s 2009 Assurance Manual required Henaghan to consult with Graul, 
Hambleton, and Gerace in the circumstances presented here.  The Manual required the engagement 
partner seeking consultation to prepare a memorandum concerning all consultations, which should, 
among other things, define the issues; “identify client source documents/evidence reviewed”; 
summarize the proper accounting treatment; summarize the impact on the financial statement 
presentation and disclosure; and describe any alternative solutions considered and why they were 
rejected.  Finally, BDO’s 2009 Assurance Manual required the memorandum to be sent to all 
consultants, who “should acknowledge their agreement with the memorandum.” 

       59.    Early in the morning on December 28, Henaghan sent a draft memo to Rainis, 
Graul, Gerace, Hambleton, the NY Partner, the BDO Midwest Leader, and BDO’s general counsel.  
The memo summarized BDO’s calls with Zizza, the AC Chair, Pence, and Associate-1, and 
attempted to answer the questions posed in Henaghan’s letter to the AC Chair dated December 21, 
2009.  The memo concluded:  “the engagement team believes it is appropriate to reconsider the 
need for an independent investigation and as such is requesting a consultation on this matter.”   

       60.    That same day, Henaghan, Graul, Gerace, Hambleton, the NY Partner, the BDO 
Midwest Leader, and BDO’s general counsel discussed GEE for approximately one hour.  Despite 
the existence of multiple, unanswered questions, they ultimately agreed to drop the demand for an 
independent investigation if GEE agreed to include commentary on two material weaknesses in 
internal controls, including certain circumstances surrounding the purported CD, in a Form 8-K 
and that Associate-1 would not become part of management, among other things.  A memo later 
written by Henaghan to document the discussion notes as considerations, among other things, that 
Zizza—whom BDO trusted—had replaced Heineman as CEO and that the AC Chair, who had 
initially supported the independent investigation, no longer believed that it was required. 

       61.    Following their call, the NY Partner spoke to Zizza and Henaghan spoke to the AC 
Chair about the statements BDO wanted made in the Form 8-K and Associate-1’s contemplated 
role with GEE.  Henaghan emailed an update to Rainis, Graul, Gerace, Hambleton, the NY 
Partner, the BDO Midwest Leader, and BDO’s general counsel, stating that the AC Chair indicated 
that GEE was contemplating an acquisition that would make Associate-1 an approximate 20% 
shareholder of GEE, but not an officer, director, or part of management.  Graul responded: “I don’t 
like it but won’t object provided [that Associate-1] is not a board member and has no managerial 
responsibilities, even with respect to the business he is selling.  Please make it perfectly clear that 
this is the last accommodation that I am willing to make from a risk management perspective.”   

                                                 
                                                 

                                               20 
---------------------Page 21---------------------

       62.    Also following their December 28 call, Hambleton sent an email to the other BDO 
partners asking whether they were comfortable with the classification of the $2.3 million as cash at 
September 30.  Henaghan responded:  “we have a confirmation from Park Ave Bank & the 
subsequent execution and funding of the assignment agreement as evidence of the existence of the 
CD at 9/30.”  Henaghan did not mention any of the inconsistent evidence that he identified in his 
letter to the AC Chair dated December 21, 2009, and that indicated that no such CD or other cash 
equivalent existed as of September 30, 2009.  Neither Hambleton nor any of the other BDO 
partners responded or commented on these omissions.   

       63.    BDO provided a draft Form 8-K disclosure to GEE, and reviewed and agreed to the 
language ultimately included in GEE’s Form 8-K filed on December 30, 2009.  The Form 8-K 
disclosed Heineman’s resignation, Zizza’s appointment as CEO, and the fact that Zizza was paid 
$20,000 per month since March 2009 to consult for Pence.  The Form 8-K also stated:   
 
       In July 2009, the Registrant purchased a $2.3 million certificate of deposit (“CD”) 
       at a New York bank.  When the CD matured in October 2009, the bank did not 
       timely credit the proceeds of the CD to the Registrant’s account.  Although the 
       Registrant has made a formal inquiry of the bank, to date the Company has not 
       received an adequate explanation for the bank’s non-performance relating to the 
       CD.  In December 2009, the Registrant was reimbursed in full through a non-
       recourse assignment of the CD for face value to an unrelated party, who has other 
       business interests with the bank.  The purchaser of the CD is neither an employee 
       nor a director of the Registrant. 
 
       64.    The Form 8-K also disclosed two material weaknesses:  (1) “the size of the New 
York bank from which the CD was purchased did not meet the minimum requirements of [GEE]’s 
investment policy”; and (2) the Company “authorized an individual that was neither an employer 
nor a director as an authorized signor on the Registrant’s bank account.”  The Form 8-K did not 
indicate that Associate-1 was both the authorized signatory and the purportedly “unrelated party” 
who purchased the purported CD.   
 
       65.    On January 4, 2010, Henaghan sent an email to Rainis, Graul, Gerace, Hambleton, 
the BDO Midwest Leader, and BDO’s general counsel attaching the Form 8-K, the December 21, 
2009, letter to the AC Chair demanding an independent investigation, Heineman’s resignation 
email, and a final memo discussing BDO’s calls with the AC Chair, Pence, Zizza, and Associate-1 
and concluding that BDO should issue its opinion on GEE’s financial statements.  The final memo 
noted that Zizza and the AC Chair “acknowledged that some inappropriate actions were taken 
within the Company and that it was likely that even more inappropriate actions were taken at the 
Bank….  Both men also acknowledged that they felt that with [Heineman’s] removal from the 
management team, the inappropriate actions within the Company would stop.”  The memo noted 
that “without the cooperation of [Heineman] and the Bank – neither of which anyone was likely to 
obtain, it was highly unlikely that the motivations or even all of the actions would ever be learned.”  
BDO did not attempt to contact Heineman following his resignation nor did BDO attempt to 
contact PAB at any time after this issue arose.   
        
                                                 
                                                 

                                                21 
---------------------Page 22---------------------

       66.    The memo also stated that Zizza “represented to BDO that [Associate-1] will not 
become an employee or director of the Company” and concluded:  “To the extent any new adverse 
information related to the transaction comes to our attention we will again consult with BDO’s risk 
management and National SEC groups in regards to continued client retention.”  Rainis, Graul, 
Gerace, and Hambleton each reviewed the memo and concurred with the decision to drop the 
demand for an independent investigation.  BDO’s general counsel also agreed with the approach 
outlined in the memo. 
        
       67.    On January 5, 2010, after Respondents had already decided that GEE’s Form 8-K 
disclosure concerning the purported CD was adequate and informed GEE that BDO would 
withdraw its demand for an investigation and issue an unqualified audit opinion, Hambleton asked 
BDO’s general counsel, Henaghan, Rainis, Graul, Gerace, and the NY Partner:  “I want to make 
sure we believe the company’s response is a sufficient response to a potential illegal act.  Although 
we didn’t specifically say we thought there was a potential illegal act in the [December 21] letter, 
we did include enough issues that would lead someone to that view as does the memo’s statement 
about some ‘inappropriate actions.’”  BDO’s general counsel responded:  “I do believe the 
company’s response was appropriate under the circumstances.” 
        
       68.    On January 8, 2010, GEE filed its Form 10-K, which classified the $2.3 million 
purported CD as a cash equivalent and stated in footnote disclosure to the financial statements: 
        
       In July 2009, the Company purchased a $2,300,000 certificate of deposit (“CD”) at 
       a New York bank.  When the CD matured in October 2009, the bank did not timely 
       credit the proceeds of the CD to the Company’s account.  Although the Company 
       has made a formal inquiry of the bank, to date the Company has not received an 
       adequate explanation for the bank’s non-performance relating to the CD.  In 
       December 2009, the Company was reimbursed in full through a non-recourse 
       assignment of the CD for face value to an unrelated party, who has other business 
       interests with the bank.  The purchaser of the CD is neither an employee nor a 
       director of the Company.   

       69.    GEE’s Form 10-K filed on January 8, 2010 contained an audit report from BDO 
that stated BDO’s audits were conducted “in accordance with the standards of the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States)” and that GEE’s financial statements 
presented fairly, in all material respects, the company’s position and results at September 30, 2009, 
in conformity with GAAP.   
        
G.     IN 2010, BDO LEARNED OF FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS IN A CRIMINAL 
       COMPLAINT AGAINST THE PAB PRESIDENT ALLEGING THAT THE 
       PURPORTED CD DID NOT EXIST 
        
       70.    On January 19, 2010, just days after BDO issued its unqualified opinion and GEE 
filed its 2009 Form 10-K, Henaghan sent an email to Rainis, Graul, Gerace, Hambleton, the BDO 
Midwest Leader, and NY Partner attaching a January 12, 2010, Grand Jury Subpoena, issued to the 

                                                
                                                

                                               22 
---------------------Page 23---------------------

AC Chair seeking his appearance and production of “any and all documents relating to any account 
maintained at Park Avenue Bank.”   
        
       71.    On March 13, 2010, the United States of America filed a 44-page criminal 
Complaint against former PAB president Antonucci (the “Antonucci Complaint”), alleging a 
scheme and conspiracy involving a $6.5 million round-trip transaction in which GEE’s $2.3 
million was diverted as part of the conspiracy.  Huff, Heineman, and Pence are referred to and 
identifiable as designated “co-conspirator[s] not named herein” in certain aspects of that 
conspiracy.  The allegations in the Antonucci Complaint contained several details that indicated 
that GEE did not have a CD with PAB, that River Falls Financial, River Falls Investments, 
Oxygen, SDH, and PSQ were related parties, and that Heineman had authorized the money to be 
transferred to Park Avenue Insurance as part of the conspiracy, and not to purchase a CD: 
        
     “To hide the improper diversion of GEE’s funds from GEE’s auditors and Board of 
       Directors, [Antonucci] and others created a counterfeit certificate of deposit [], falsely 
       representing that GEE’s $2.3 million had been invested in a 90-day certificate of deposit at 
       the Bank.  In fact, and as [Antonucci] well knew, there was no $2.3 million CD.” 

     GEE’s $2.3 million had been transferred to Park Avenue Insurance, which was controlled 
       by Antonucci.  According to the Bank records, Heineman authorized this transfer. 

     Antonucci fraudulently signed the BDO confirmation of the $2.3 million CD, when 
       Antonucci knew it did not exist. 
        
The Antonucci Complaint further identified several “Oxygen-related entities” as participants in the 
conspiracy, including, River Falls Financial (which Pence said he owned), PSQ (Pence’s entity that 
purchased the majority stake in GEE), and Oxygen and SDH—two companies that paid GEE 
purportedly under the assignment agreement with River Falls Investments (which Associate-1 said 
he and a Huff family trust owned).  It further alleged that a group of five associates (including Huff 
and Pence) were listed on some of the accounts of the Oxygen-related entities, which shared a 
common address in Louisville, Kentucky.   
        
       72.    On April 27, 2010, Henaghan sent an email attaching the Antonucci Complaint to 
Rainis, Graul, Gerace, Hambleton, the BDO Midwest Leader, and BDO’s general counsel.  
Henaghan’s email also attached a March 10, 2010 Grand Jury Subpoena issued to GEE, requesting 
(i) documents relating to Huff, Pence, Heineman, the purported CD, SDH, Oxygen, O2HR, and 
River Falls Financial and (ii) documents reflecting any payments to Heineman, Pence, Associate-1, 
or the AC Member.  Henaghan further attached a client retention memo addressed to Graul, 
Hambleton, Gerace, the BDO Midwest Leader, and BDO’s general counsel.  The memo stated: 
“As I believe everyone is aware, in March 2010, Charles Antonucci, the president of Park Avenue 
Bank was arrested related to allegations of criminal acts in his role as bank president, including 
signing a counterfeit CD and our confirmation when he had in fact diverted the funds for his own 
personal use.”  The memo also noted that Pence was an unnamed co-conspirator.  The memo 
concluded that the engagement team recommended that BDO continue its relationship with GEE 
because, among other factors, “Pence has not been formally charged yet with any criminal wrong-
                                                 
                                                 

                                                23 
---------------------Page 24---------------------

doing.”  However, the memo did not address what impact the Antonucci Complaint’s allegations 
might have on the representations contained in GEE’s financial statements (issued two months 
before the complaint) concerning the purported CD. 
        
       73.    On April 28, 2010, Graul responded to Henaghan’s email requesting that he obtain 
additional information concerning certain allegations in connection with client retention concerns.  
Specifically, Graul indicated that Gerace had confirmed to him that “[w]hen the missing company 
funds were ‘dribbling’ in from other sources” those sources included entities linked to the 
conspiracy alleged in the Antonucci Complaint.  Graul asked Henaghan to determine (i) whether 
any related party transactions might involve the entities mentioned in the complaint; (ii) who 
authorized the funds to be paid to GEE from the “Oxygen-related entities” River Falls Financial, 
SDH, and Oxygen; and (iii) whether the AC Chair and Zizza are comfortable working with Pence 
because “the preponderance of the accusations seem pretty bad for Mr. Pence.”  Hambleton 
responded to all, stating:  “I agree with [Graul].  It seems there are more potential connections 
here.”  However, neither Graul, Hambleton, Gerace, nor Rainis ever followed up with Henaghan to 
learn whether he had identified those “potential connections.”  Nevertheless, Graul and Gerace 
subsequently approved the retention of GEE as a client.   
        
       74.    In a May 25, 2010, email, Henaghan told Zizza that he would like to discuss certain 
issues regarding the Antonucci Complaint.  Henaghan wrote that he wanted to discuss the 
allegations that “Pence purchased a 25% interest in Bedford Consulting from Antonucci for $6.5 
million in what the complaint describes as an ‘artifice designed to cover up the true source of the 
$6.5 million.’”  Henaghan also wrote:  “The Complaint indicates that River Falls is owned by 
Pence, [Associate-1], and Heineman.  All previous information disclosed to us by Heineman and 
Pence indicated that Pence owned 100% of River Falls.”  He further noted that the Complaint 
indicated that PSQ borrowed money from River Falls to buy the GEE shares.  Henaghan’s email to 
Zizza did not address the allegations in the Antonucci Complaint denying the existence of the 
purported CD or indicating related party issues concerning the funds received by the “Oxygen-
related entities.”   
        
       75.    On June 1, 2010, in connection with the allegations contained in the Antonucci 
Complaint, an Assistant United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York interviewed 
Henaghan in detail about BDO’s 2009 audit, including the information BDO received about the 
ownership structures of River Falls Financial, River Falls Investments, WTS, On-Site, Oxygen, 
and AIR. 
        
       76.    Other than Henaghan’s single discussion with Pence (who denied the allegations) 
and further communications with Zizza (who stated that he still trusted Pence), BDO did not 
perform any additional procedures specific to the allegations in the Antonucci Complaint 
concerning GEE, its chairman and former CEO, or the purported CD.  BDO’s workpapers do not 
include any information about what BDO did to investigate the allegation that PAB records 
indicated that Heineman authorized the transfer of $2.3 million to Park Avenue Insurance.  BDO’s 
workpapers also do not include any analysis of the impact on GEE’s financial statements if 
Heineman had conspired with Antonucci to steal GEE’s $2.3 million, by authorizing the transfer of 

                                                 
                                                 

                                                24 
---------------------Page 25---------------------

the money to Antonucci’s company, Park Avenue Insurance, as alleged in the Antonucci 
Complaint.  The workpapers do not include an analysis of whether the assignment agreement with 
River Falls Investments, in which GEE received $2.3 million from SDH, Oxygen, or River Falls 
Financial, was a related party transaction.  In fact, Henaghan did not document any answers he 
received pursuant to his discussions with Pence or Zizza.  Moreover, the client retention memo 
approved by Graul and Gerace and “matters for reviewer concern” memo reviewed by Henaghan 
and Rainis, which were retained in the workpapers for the 2010 audit, make no reference to the 
Antonucci Complaint or guilty plea.   
        
       77.    In October 2010, Antonucci pled guilty to multiple criminal charges in a criminal 
information, including securities fraud, bank bribery, and embezzlement of bank funds.  As part of 
his guilty plea, Antonucci admitted that he and his co-conspirators caused GEE to use $2.3 million 
of its funds to make PAB whole on a loan PAB made to a company controlled by his co-
conspirators that had gone bankrupt, that the purported CD had never existed, and that he had 
signed a false confirmation that the bank had issued a CD to GEE that he then sent to BDO.  BDO 
learned of this guilty plea shortly thereafter. 
        
       78.    Henaghan, Rainis, and Gerace learned, through GEE’s November 2010 Form 8-K 
filing and publicly available information, that Pence purportedly sold PSQ to a person associated 
with Huff (“Associate-2”).  After Associate-2 became the majority owner of GEE, a BDO senior 
manager on the GEE audit noted that Google showed that Associate-2 was connected to O2HR, 
Huff, and Associate-1.  According to the Form 8-K, Associate-2 paid nothing for PSQ; he just 
assumed promissory notes issued by Pence to AIR for approximately $3 million, which funded 
PSQ’s purchase of the majority of GEE shares in July 2009.  Associate-1 had previously informed 
Henaghan in a December 21, 2009 email that AIR had “investments received and invested in” 
River Falls Investments, the entity that purchased the purported CD from GEE.   
        
       79.    Despite all of these additional indications of affiliation among AIR, River Falls 
Investments, River Falls Financial, Pence, Associate-1, and Huff, BDO did not perform additional 
audit procedures in 2010 to determine whether the purported purchase by River Falls Investments 
of the purported CD from GEE (i) was fairly characterized in GEE’s financial statements or (ii) 
should have been identified as a related party transaction in GEE’s financial statements.  Instead, 
Henaghan and Rainis relied on GEE management and director representations that there were no 
undisclosed related party transactions.  BDO also relied on Associate-1’s representations although, 
as Graul acknowledged to Gerace and Henaghan on August 10, 2010:  “Anything and everything 
that involves [Associate-1] should be scrutinized carefully . . . [Associate-1] is not to be trusted and 
everyone on the engagement should be made aware of this.”  Nevertheless, Henaghan, as 
engagement partner, Rainis, as concurring partner, and Gerace, as the assigned regional technical 
director, each agreed in those capacities that BDO could issue an unqualified audit opinion.  
 
       80.    GEE’s Form 10-K filed on December 28, 2010, for its fiscal year ended September 
30, 2010, classified the $2.3 million CD as a cash equivalent as of September 30, 2009, included a 
similar disclosure as the disclosure in the Form 10-K filed in January 2010:   

                                                 
                                                 

                                                25 
---------------------Page 26---------------------

       In November 2009, the Company discovered that it did not receive the proceeds 
       from a bank for a $2,300,000 certificate of deposit that was scheduled to mature 
       in October 2009.  Although the Company made a formal inquiry of the bank, it 
       did not receive an adequate explanation for the bank’s non-performance related to 
       the deposit.  In December 2009, the Company entered into an agreement to assign 
       its interests in the certificate of deposit, without recourse, to an unrelated party 
       that has other business interests with the bank, and the Company was reimbursed 
       for the face value of the deposit. 
        
       81.    GEE’s Form 10-K filed on December 28, 2010, as amended on April 15, 2011, 
contained an audit report from BDO that stated BDO’s audits were conducted in accordance with 
PCAOB standards and that GEE’s financial statements presented fairly, in all material respects, 
the company’s position and results at September 30, 2010 and 2009, in conformity with GAAP.   
        
H.     VIOLATIONS 

                 RULE 102(e) AND SECTION 4C OF THE EXCHANGE ACT 

       82.    BDO’s 2009 and 2010 audits were deficient and not performed in accordance 
                         8
with PCAOB standards.       Section 4C(b) and Rule 102(e)(1)(iv) define improper professional 
conduct with respect to persons licensed to practice as  accountants.  Pursuant to these provisions, 
“improper professional conduct” includes two types of negligent conduct:  (1) a single instance 
of highly unreasonable conduct that results in a violation of professional standards in 
circumstances in which heightened scrutiny is warranted; or (2) repeated instances of 
unreasonable conduct, each resulting in violations of professional standards, that indicate a lack 
of competence. 
 
               Failed to exercise due professional care and an attitude of professional 
               skepticism (AU § 230) 
                
       83.    PCAOB standards require auditors to exercise due professional care in the 
planning and performance of the audit and the preparation of the report.  (AU § 230.01)  
Auditors must maintain an attitude of professional skepticism, which includes “a questioning 
mind and a critical assessment of audit evidence.”  (AU § 230.07)  In addition, the auditor should 
“consider the competency and sufficiency of the evidence.  Since evidence is gathered and 
evaluated throughout the audit, professional skepticism should be exercised throughout the audit 

                                                 
8
  References to auditing standards in this Order are to PCAOB standards in effect at the time the 
audit work was performed.     

                                                   
                                                   

                                                  26 
---------------------Page 27---------------------

process.”  (AU § 230.08)  The Commission and courts have held that related party transactions 
                            9
require heightened scrutiny.     

       84.    As set forth above, Henaghan, Rainis, Graul, and Gerace knew or should have 
known facts that cast substantial doubt on the existence of the purported CD given, among other 
things, (1) significant integrity issues with Heineman, the person who claimed to have authorized 
the investment, and Associate-1, the person with whom Heineman purportedly “negotiated” the 
assignment agreement; (2) PAB had told GEE that it had no record of the purported CD; and (3) 
PAB had provided GEE and BDO with documentation showing the $2.3 million actually had been 
transferred to Park Avenue Insurance on July 23, 2009.   
        
       85.    Henaghan, Rainis, Graul, and Gerace also knew or should have known that the 
circumstances presented by the purported $2.3 million CD that was not honored by PAB, the 
subsequent receipt by GEE of $2.3 million from River Falls Financial, SDH, and Oxygen, and the 
purported assignment agreement with River Falls Investments warranted heightened scrutiny.  
Notwithstanding the many red flags concerning the purported CD and the assignment agreement 
discussed above, BDO issued audit reports in both 2009 and 2010 containing unqualified opinions 
that were filed with GEE’s financial statements in the Form 10-Ks.  In those reports, BDO 
inaccurately stated that the audit had been conducted in accordance with PCAOB standards and 
that GEE’s financial statements presented fairly, in all material respects, the company’s position 
and results in conformity with GAAP.   
        
       86.    As a result of their above-described conduct, Henaghan, Rainis, Graul, and Gerace 
failed to exercise due professional care and an attitude of professional skepticism in BDO’s 2009 
and 2010 audits of GEE.   

               Failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter concerning the 
               purported CD (AU §§ 326 and 333) 

       87.    PCAOB standards require auditors to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter 
to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion with respect to the financial statements under audit.  To 
be “competent,” evidence “must be both valid and relevant.”  (AU § 326.21)  “The amount and 
kinds of evidential matter required to support an informed opinion are matters for the auditor to 
determine in the exercise of his or her professional judgment after a careful study of the 
circumstance in the particular case.”  (AU § 326.22)  This includes evaluating the reliability of the 
         10
evidence,   and  weighing all of the evidence obtained.  The validity and sufficiency of required 
evidence depends on the circumstances and the auditors  ’ judgment, but should be “persuasive” 
though it need not be “convincing.”  (AU § 326.22)   
        

                                                 
9
 See McCurdy v. SEC, 396 F.3d 1258, 1261 (D.C. Cir. 2005) (citing Howard v. SEC, 376 F.3d 
1136, 1149 (D.C. Cir. 2004)) (noting that related party transactions “are viewed with extreme 
skepticism in all areas of finance”).    
10
  AU § 330.33: “the auditor should consider (a) the reliability of the confirmations….” 

                                                   
                                                   

                                                 27 
---------------------Page 28---------------------

       88.    PCAOB standards also provide that management representations “are not a 
substitute for the application of th[e] auditing procedures necessary to afford a reasonable basis 
for an opinion regarding the financial statements under audit,” that “the auditor obtains written 
representations from management to complement other auditing procedures,” and that “[i]n 
exercising professional skepticism, the auditor should not be satisfied with less than persuasive 
                                                                                           11
evidence because of a belief that management is honest.”  (AU §§ 333.02, 333.03, 230.09)        

       89.    As a result of his above-described conduct, Henaghan failed to obtain sufficient 
evidence supporting assertions in GEE’s 2009 and 2010 Form 10-K financial statements that the 
purported CD existed and was a cash equivalent as of September 30, 2009, and that GEE entered 
                                                     12
into an assignment agreement with an unrelated party.    
                                                                     
               Failed to determine whether fraud or potential illegal acts may have impacted 
               GEE’s fiscal year 2009 and 2010 financial statements (AU §§ 316, 317) 

       90.    Under AU § 316.01, an auditor must plan and perform an audit to obtain 
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, 
whether caused by error or fraud.  The auditors must brainstorm “how and where they believe 
the entity’s financial statements might be susceptible to material misstatement due to fraud, how 
management could perpetrate and conceal fraudulent financial reporting, and how assets of the 
entity could be misappropriated.”  (AU § 316.14)  AU § 316.06 states that there are “[t]wo types 
of misstatements relevant to the auditor’s consideration of fraud—misstatements arising from 
fraudulent financial reporting and misstatements arising from misappropriation of assets.”  It 
explains that financial reporting may be accomplished by falsification of supporting 
documentation, or misrepresentations of events, transactions, or other significant information.  It 
further instructs that fraudulent financial reporting “need not be the result of a grand plan or 
conspiracy” and may instead “be that management representatives rationalize the appropriateness 
of a material misstatement … as a temporary misstatement of financial statement … expected to 
be corrected later.”  It instructs that that misappropriation of assets may be accompanied by 
“false or misleading records or documents, possibly created by circumventing controls.”  AU § 
316.09 also notes that management engaged in fraud will take steps to conceal the fraud from 
auditors.  AU § 316.10 further states that fraud may be concealed through collusion among 
management and third parties.  For these reasons, AU § 316.13 requires auditors to exercise 
professional skepticism when considering the risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 

                                                 
11
  AU § 508.20 also provided that “[c]ertain circumstances may require a qualified opinion … 
[when] “[t]here is a lack of sufficient competent evidential matter or there are restrictions on the 
scope of the audit that have led the auditor to conclude that he or she cannot express an 
unqualified opinion….”   
12
   In addition, AS   § 3.12   required BDO to “document significant audit findings or issues, actions 
taken to address them (including additional evidence obtained), and the basis for the conclusions 
reached.”  Henaghan failed to comply with this documentation requirement with respect to each 
of the major auditing issues encountered during the 2009 and 2010 audits.   

                                                  
                                                  

                                                28 
---------------------Page 29---------------------

       91.    AU § 316.68 lists conditions that may be identified during the fieldwork that are 
indicators of potential fraud, including (i) unsupported or unauthorized balances or transactions; 
(ii) missing documents; (iii) unusual discrepancies between the entity’s records and confirmation 
replies; (iv) inconsistent, vague or implausible responses from management or employees; and 
(v) denial of access to records, facilities, certain employees, customers, vendors or others from 
whom audit evidence might be sought.   

       92.    AU § 317.10 notes that auditors may become aware of possible illegal acts during 
the course of their audit:  “When the auditor becomes aware of information concerning a 
possible illegal act, the auditor should obtain an understanding of the nature of the act, the 
circumstances in which it occurred and sufficient other information to evaluate the effect on the 
financial statements.”   

       93.    As a result of his above-described conduct, Henaghan failed to adhere to these 
PCAOB standards during BDO’s 2009 or 2010 audits of GEE.   

               Failed to obtain sufficient audit evidence to determine whether the assignment 
               agreement was a related party transaction (AU §§ 326 and 334) 

       94.    PCAOB standards require that “[an] auditor should view related party transactions 
within the framework of existing [accounting] pronouncements, placing primary emphasis on the 
adequacy of disclosure.  In addition, the auditor should be aware that the substance of a 
particular transaction could be significantly different from its form and that the financial 
statements should recognize the substance of particular transactions rather than merely their legal 
form.”  (AU § 334.02)   

       95.    PCAOB standards require an auditor to obtain sufficient competent evidential 
matter to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the financial statements under audit. 
(AU § 326.01)  In selecting particular substantive tests to achieve the audit objectives, an auditor 
considers, among other things, the risk of material misstatement of the financial statements.  (AU § 
326.11)  With respect to related party transactions, PCAOB standards require that after an auditor 
identifies related party transactions, he or she should apply the procedures considered necessary to 
obtain satisfaction concerning their purpose, nature, and extent and their effect on the financial 
statements.  (AU § 334.09)  For each related party transaction for which disclosure is required, 
PCAOB standards require that the auditor satisfy himself that the transaction is adequately 
disclosed in the financial statements.  (AU § 334.11)   
        
       96.    The failure to disclose the assignment agreement as a related party transaction 
caused the financial statements to be misleading.  Financial Accounting Standards Board 
Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 850, Related Party Disclosures required that 
the following must be disclosed concerning related party transactions: (a) the nature of the 
relationship involved; (b) a description of the transaction; (c) the dollar amount of the transaction; 
and (d) amounts due from or to related parties and, if not otherwise apparent, the terms and manner 
of settlement.  Related party transactions cannot be presumed to have been conducted at arm’s-
length.  GAAP requires these disclosures so the reader can be alerted to their existence, so as to 

                                                  
                                                  

                                                 29 
---------------------Page 30---------------------

help the reader of the financial statements detect and explain possible differences in financial 
                                                                                         13
statements of a company that engaged in related party transactions to those that did not.     Such 
disclosure helps the reader evaluate the substance of the related party transaction.  
                                 
       97.     As a result of his above-described conduct, Henaghan failed to exercise the 
requisite level of care, failed to perform sufficient procedures to identify related party 
transactions, failed to obtain sufficient audit evidence to determine whether the assignment 
agreement was a related party transaction during BDO’s 2009 or 2010 audits of GEE, and failed 
to follow up on evidence indicating that assertions regarding the purported CD and assignment 
agreement were unsubstantiated.  Respondents also failed to ensure the issuance of an accurate 
audit report in 2009 and 2010, which misrepresented that GEE’s financial statements were 
presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with GAAP.   

               Failed to Investigate Newly Discovered Facts in 2010 (AU § 561) 

       98.    AU § 561.04 states that when an auditor becomes aware of information that he 
would have investigated if it had come to his attention during the course of the audit, he must 
determine if the information is reliable and whether the facts existed at the date of his report.  If the 
information is reliable and existed at the date of the report, the auditor must determine if his report 
would have been affected and people relying on the financial statements would find it important.  
(AU § 561.05.) 
        
       99.    As a result of his above-described conduct, Henaghan failed to adhere to this 
PCAOB Standard after learning of, among other things, the Antonucci Complaint in March 2010 
and subsequent guilty plea in October 2010, as it concerned GEE’s 2009 financial statements.   

                   Rainis’s Failure to Comply with Concurring Review Standard 
                                                   
       100.   The concurring partner reviewer’s responsibility is to perform an objective review 
of significant auditing, accounting, and financial reporting matters and to conclude, based on all the 
relevant facts and circumstances of which the concurring partner reviewer has knowledge, that no 
matters that have come to his or her attention would cause the concurring partner reviewer to 
believe that the client’s financial statements covered by the firm’s audit report are not in 
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in all material respects or that the audit 
was not performed in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.  SEC Practice 
Section §1000.39 (Appendix E). 
        
       101.   As a result of his above-described conduct, Rainis failed to adhere to this standard 
during BDO’s 2009 or 2010 audits of GEE. 
        

                                                 
13
   ASC    850 - 10 - 05 - 2 .  

                                                   
                                                   

                                                  30 
---------------------Page 31---------------------

                                            Finding 
                                                 
       102.   As a result of the conduct described above, the Commission finds that Henaghan, 
Rainis, Graul, and Gerace engaged in improper professional conduct within the meaning of 
Sections 4C(a)(2), 4C(b)(2)(A), and 4C(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 102(e)(1)(ii), 
102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(1), and 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  The conduct 
by Henaghan, Rainis, Graul, and Gerace in the 2009 and 2010 audits of GEE involved repeated 
instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in violations of PCAOB standards and indicating 
a lack of competence, and also satisfies the standard of highly unreasonable conduct resulting in 
violations of PCAOB standards in circumstances in which heightened scrutiny was warranted.  
                                                 
          CAUSING VIOLATIONS OF SECTION 10A OF THE EXCHANGE ACT 
        
       103.   Section 10A(a)(1) of the Exchange Act requires each audit conducted of an issuer 
by a registered public accounting firm to include “procedures designed to provide reasonable 
assurance of detecting illegal acts that would have a direct and material effect on the 
determination of financial statement amounts.”  Section 10A(a)(2) of the Exchange Act requires 
each audit conducted of an issuer by a registered public accounting firm to include “procedures 
designed to identify related party transactions that are material to the financial statements or 
otherwise require disclosure therein.”  Section 10A(b)(1) requires a registered public accounting 
firm to, in accordance with PCAOB standards, “determine whether it is likely that an illegal act 
has occurred” if the firm “detects or otherwise becomes aware of information indicating that an 
illegal act (whether or not perceived to have a material effect on the financial statements of the 
issuer) has or may have occurred.”  No showing of scienter is necessary to establish a violation 
of Section 10A.  See SEC v. Solucorp Indus., Ltd., 197 F. Supp. 2d. 4, 10-11 (S.D.N.Y. 2002). 
        
       104.   In connection with the 2009 and 2010 GEE audits, BDO violated Section 
10A(a)(1) of the Exchange Act by failing to plan, design, and carry out audit procedures to 
provide reasonable assurance of detecting illegal acts that would have a direct and material effect 
on the determination of financial statements amounts.  As a result of Respondents’ conduct 
described above, Respondents were each a cause of BDO’s violations in circumstances in which 
each knew or should have known that their respective acts and omissions would contribute to 
BDO’s violations. 
        
       105.   In connection with the 2009 and 2010 GEE audits, BDO violated Section 
10A(a)(2) of the Exchange Act by failing to plan, design, and carry out audit procedures to 
identify GEE’s material related party transactions that required disclosure in the financial 
statements.  As a result of Respondents’ conduct described above, Respondents were each a 
cause of BDO’s violations in circumstances in which each knew or should have known that their 
respective acts and omissions would contribute to BDO’s violations. 
        
       106.   In connection with the 2009 and 2010 GEE audits, BDO violated Section 
10A(b)(1) of the Exchange Act by failing to determine whether it was likely that an illegal act 
had occurred after BDO was made aware of information indicating that an illegal act may have 

                                                 
                                                 

                                               31 
---------------------Page 32---------------------

occurred.  As a result of Respondents’ conduct described above, Respondents were each a cause 
of BDO’s violations in circumstances in which each knew or should have known that their 
respective acts and omissions would contribute to BDO’s violations. 
        
       107.   As a result of the conduct described above, the Commission finds that 
Respondents were each a cause of BDO’s violations of Sections 10A(a)(1), (a)(2), and (b)(1) of 
the Exchange Act.   
        
                      CAUSING VIOLATIONS OF SECTION 13(a) OF  
                 THE EXCHANGE ACT AND RULE 13a-1 THEREUNDER 
        
       108.   Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 thereunder require that every 
issuer of a security registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act file with the 
Commission annual reports (i.e., Form 10-K) as the Commission may require, and mandate that 
periodic reports contain such further material information as may be necessary to make the 
required statements not misleading.  The obligation to file such reports embodies the requirement 
that they be true and correct. 
 
       109.   GEE’s annual reports on Form 10-K for fiscal years 2009 and 2010 included audit 
reports from BDO that stated BDO’s audits were conducted “in accordance with the standards of 
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States)” and that GEE’s financial 
statements presented fairly, in all material respects, the company’s position and results.  These 
statements were materially misleading.  As a result of Respondents’ above-described conduct, 
BDO’s 2009 and 2010 audits were not conducted in accordance with PCAOB standards and the 
financial statements included in GEE’s 2009 and 2010 Form 10-Ks were materially misstated 
because, among other things, they incorrectly represented GEE had a $2.3 million CD and 
classified it as a cash equivalent as of September 30, 2009, and did not disclose the assignment 
agreement as a related party transaction, contrary to GAAP.  At a minimum, each of the 
Respondents knew or should have known that their acts or omissions would contribute to GEE’s 
filing of inaccurate 2009 and 2010 Form 10-Ks.   
        
       110.   As a result of the conduct described above, the Commission finds that 
Respondents were a cause of GEE’s violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 
13a-1 thereunder. 
        
                                             IV. 
 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest 
to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.     Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Henaghan, Rainis, Graul, Gerace, 
and Hambleton shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future 

                                                
                                                

                                               32 
---------------------Page 33---------------------

violations and any future violations of Sections 10A and 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 
13a-1 thereunder. 
        
       B.     Henaghan is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant. 

              1.     After three years from the date of this Order, Henaghan may request 
       that the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application 
       (attention:  Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before 
       the Commission as: 

                  a.  a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
                      of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the 
                      Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                      Henaghan’s work in his practice before the Commission will be reviewed 
                      either by the independent audit committee of the public company for which 
                      he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before 
                      the Commission in this capacity; and/or 

                  b.  an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
                      Commission that: 

                      (1) Henaghan, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
                          registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 
                          of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective;   

                      (2) Henaghan, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
                          associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB and that inspection did 
                          not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in his or the firm’s 
                          quality control system that would indicate that Henaghan will not 
                          receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (3) Henaghan, has resolved all disciplinary issues with the PCAOB, and has 
                          complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the 
                          PCAOB (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and  

                      (4) Henaghan acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Henaghan 
                          appears or practices before the Commission as an independent 
                          accountant, to comply with all requirements of the Commission and the 
                          PCAOB, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to 
                          registration, inspections, engagement quality review, and quality control 
                          standards. 

              2.     The Commission will consider an application by Henaghan to resume 
       appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his CPA license is current 
       and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable boards of 
                                                 
                                                 

                                                33 
---------------------Page 34---------------------

       accountancy.  However, if CPA licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
       Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
       Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
       above, any other matters relating to Henaghan’s character, integrity, professional 
       conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

       C.     Rainis is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant. 

               1.      After two years from the date of this Order, Rainis may request that 
       the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention:  
       Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the 
       Commission as: 

                  a.  a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
                      of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the 
                      Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                      Rainis’s work in his practice before the Commission will be reviewed either 
                      by the independent audit committee of the public company for which he 
                      works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before 
                      the Commission in this capacity; and/or 

                  b.  an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
                      Commission that: 

                      (1) Rainis, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
                          registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 
                          of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective;   

                      (2) Rainis, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
                          associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB and that inspection did 
                          not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in his or the firm’s 
                          quality control system that would indicate that Rainis will not receive 
                          appropriate supervision; 

                      (3) Rainis, has resolved all disciplinary issues with the PCAOB, and has 
                          complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the 
                          PCAOB (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and  

                      (4) Rainis acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Rainis appears or 
                          practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
                          comply with all requirements of the Commission and the PCAOB, 
                          including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, 
                          inspections, engagement quality review, and quality control standards. 

                                                  
                                                  

                                                34 
---------------------Page 35---------------------

               2.     The Commission will consider an application by Rainis to resume 
       appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his CPA license is current 
       and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable boards of 
       accountancy.  However, if CPA licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
       Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
       Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
       above, any other matters relating to Rainis’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or 
       qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

       D.     Gerace is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission 
as an accountant. 

               1.     After one year from the date of this Order, Gerace may request that 
       the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention:  
       Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the 
       Commission as: 

                  a.  a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
                      of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the 
                      Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                      Gerace’s work in his practice before the Commission will be reviewed 
                      either by the independent audit committee of the public company for which 
                      he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before 
                      the Commission in this capacity; and/or 

                  b.  an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
                      Commission that: 

                      (1) Gerace, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
                          registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 
                          of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective;   

                      (2) Gerace, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
                          associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB and that inspection did 
                          not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in his or the firm’s 
                          quality control system that would indicate that Gerace will not receive 
                          appropriate supervision; 

                      (3) Gerace, has resolved all disciplinary issues with the PCAOB, and has 
                          complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the 
                          PCAOB (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and  

                      (4) Gerace acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Gerace appears or 
                          practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
                          comply with all requirements of the Commission and the PCAOB, 

                                                 
                                                 

                                                35 
---------------------Page 36---------------------

                          including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, 
                          inspections, engagement quality review, and quality control standards. 

               2.     The Commission will consider an application by Gerace to resume 
       appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his CPA license is current 
       and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable boards of 
       accountancy.  However, if CPA licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
       Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
       Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
       above, any other matters relating to Gerace’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or 
       qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

       E.     Graul is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant. 

               1.      After one year from the date of this Order, Graul may request that the 
       Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention:  
       Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the 
       Commission as: 

                  a.  a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
                      of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the 
                      Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                      Graul’s work in his practice before the Commission will be reviewed either 
                      by the independent audit committee of the public company for which he 
                      works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before 
                      the Commission in this capacity; and/or 

                  b.  an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
                      Commission that: 

                      (1) Graul, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
                          registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 
                          of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective;   

                      (2) Graul, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
                          associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB and that inspection did 
                          not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in his or the firm’s 
                          quality control system that would indicate that Graul will not receive 
                          appropriate supervision; 

                      (3) Graul, has resolved all disciplinary issues with the PCAOB, and has 
                          complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the 
                          PCAOB (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and  

                                                  
                                                  

                                                36 
---------------------Page 37---------------------

                      (4) Graul acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Graul appears or 
                          practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
                          comply with all requirements of the Commission and the PCAOB, 
                          including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, 
                          inspections, engagement quality review, and quality control standards. 

              2.     The Commission will consider an application by Graul to resume 
       appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his CPA license is current 
       and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable boards of 
       accountancy.  However, if CPA licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
       Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
       Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
       above, any other matters relating to Graul’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or 
       qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

       F.     Respondents shall each, within 14 days of the entry of this Order, pay the civil 
money penalties indicated below:   
        
                      (i)   $30,000 for Henaghan;  
                      (ii)  $15,000 for Rainis; 
                      (iii)  $10,000 for Gerace; 
                      (iv)  $10,000 for Graul; and  
                      (v)  $10,000 for Hambleton.   
 
to the Commission  for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury in accordance 
with Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  If timely payment is not made additional interest shall 
accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717.  Payments ordered in this paragraph must be made in one of 
the following ways:   
 
              (1)     Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, 
                      which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon 
                      request;  
               
              (2)     Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
               
              (3)     Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
              Enterprise Services Center 
              Accounts Receivable Branch 
              HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
              6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
              Oklahoma City, OK 73169 

                                                 
                                                 

                                                37 
---------------------Page 38---------------------

 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Henaghan, Rainis, Graul, Gerace, or Hambleton as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file 
number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to 
Timothy Casey, New York Regional Office, Securities and Exchange Commission, 200 Vesey 
Street, New York, NY 10281-1022.     
 
                                                V.      
                                                  
       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. § 523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by 
Respondents, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other 
amounts due by Respondents under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree 
or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by 
Respondents of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set 
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. § 523(a)(19). 

        
        
       By the Commission. 
        
        
 
                                                     Brent J. Fields 
                                                     Secretary 

                                                  
                                                  

                                                 38 
