---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                         before the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  
 SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
 Release No. 78270 / July 8, 2016 
  
 ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
 Release No. 3787 / July 8, 2016 
  
 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
 File No. 3-17330  
  
  
                                               ORDER INSTITUTING  
 In the Matter of                              ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
                                               PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e)       OF THE 
        TONI TONG CHEN,  CPA                   COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                               MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
 Respondent.                                   REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                
                                                
                                                  
                                            I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Toni 
Tong Chen (“Respondent” or “Chen”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1
           
                                              
                                            II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer of 
Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of 
these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or 
her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the 
violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations thereunder. 
  
  
  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to 
the Commission’s jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings 
contained in Section III.2 below, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order 
Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.  

                                               III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
       1.     Chen, age 47, was  a certified public accountant licensed to practice in the State of 
California from 1997 through approximately October 2014. 

       2.     On June 29, 2016, a judgment was entered by consent against Chen, permanently 
enjoining her from future violations of Sections 5 and 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 
(“Securities Act”), Sections 10(b) and 15(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, in the 
civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. CKB168 Holdings Ltd., et al, Civil 
Action Number 13-CV-5584, in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New 
York.  
 
       3.     The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that  from approximately 
May 2012 through at least October 2013, Chen  solicited investments in an entity that was falsely 
portrayed as a profitable multi-level marketing company that sells web -based children’s educational 
courses.  The complaint alleged that, in fact, the company was a fraudulent pyramid scheme.  The 
complaint also alleged that Chen sold unregistered securities and acted as an unregistered broker -
dealer. 
 
                                               IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Chen’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that : 
 
       A.     Chen is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                   Brent J. Fields 
                                                   Secretary 
 

                                                2  
