---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                     

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                        Before the  
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No.  79765 / January 10, 2017 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT   
Release No.  3842 / January 10, 2017 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-14558 

                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                          :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                          :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                          :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Larry Lee Crawford, CPA  
                          :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                          :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                          
        

       On September  21, 2011, Larry Lee Crawford, CPA (“Crawford”) was suspended from 
appearing or practicing before the Commission  as an accountant as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission agai nst him pursuant to Rule 
102(e)(3)(i)  of the Commission's  Rules of Practice.1
                                                   This order is issued in response to 
Crawford’s application  for reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission  as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 

       The Commission  found that Crawford had been permanently enjoined by a United States 
District Court from future violations  of Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”)  and Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1, 13b2-2, and 13a-14 thereunder, and 
from aiding and abetting violations  of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a -13 thereunder.  In its Complaint  in the 
injunctive action, the Commission alleged,  among other things, that Crawford, through his 
conduct as the Chief Financial Officer of Escala Group, Inc.  (“Escala”) violated the antifraud 
and reporting provisions  of the federal securities laws by: (1) failing  to disclose the related-party 
status of the company that owned and published  the Brookman Catalogue, resulting in control of 
that Catalogue,  and failing  to disclose the revenues obtained by virtue of Escala’s former parent 
and its former CEO’s contro l of the prices in the Brookman Catalogue for stamp collections that 
Escala sold to its former parent; (2) falsely representing that Escala sold its former parent 
                                              
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 3322 dated September 21, 2011.  Crawford was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after three years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                  

company several large stamp archives at prices determined by  reference to independent  stamp 
Catalogues and appraisals when in fact Escala’s former CEO set the Catalogue prices and 
influenced and edited the appraisals; and (3) improperly  booking  the sale of certain antiques. 
 
       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public  company to be filed with the Commission, Crawford 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission,  while 
practicing before the Commission  in this capacity.  Crawford is not, at this time, seeking to 
appear or practice before the Commission  as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to 
resume appearing and practicing before the Commission  as an independent accountant, he will 
be required to submit an application  to the Commission  showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original  suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Crawford’s 
suspension from practice before the Commission  as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission  determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original  suspension order. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s  Rules of Practice governs applications  for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission  may reinstate the privilege  to appear and 
practice before the Commission  “for good cause shown.”  2
                                                           This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly  fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information  supplied,  representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Crawford, it appears that he has complied  with the terms of the September 21, 2011 order 
suspending him from appearing or practicing  before the Commission  as an accountant, that no 
information  has come to the attention of the Commission  relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications  to practice before the Commission  that would be a basis 
for adverse action agai nst him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's  Rules of Practice, 
and that Crawford, by undertaking  to have his work reviewed by the independent audit 
committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, in his practice before the Commission  as a preparer or reviewer of financial 
statements required to be filed with the Commission,  has shown good cause for reinstatement.  
Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                              
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this rule may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a hearing; 
however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated by the 
Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R . § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
 

                                               2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                             

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's  Rules of Practice that 
Larry Lee Crawford, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission  as 
an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                           
                                           
                                                        Brent J. Fields  
                                                        Secretary  
                                           

                                             3 
