---------------------Page 1---------------------

                         UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                    Before the 
                 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 72723 / July 30, 2014 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3573 / July 30, 2014 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15992 
 
                                                
In the Matter of                               ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE -
                                               AND-DESIST PRO CEEDINGS 
   MARC SHERMAN                                PURSUANT TO  SECTION  21C OF 
                                               THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE 
Respondent.                                    ACT OF 1934   
                                                 
 
                                                  
                                         I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate 
that cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Marc Sherman 
(“Respondent” or “Sherman”). 
 
                                        II. 
                                           
       After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that: 
                                           
       A.     SUMMARY 
                                           
              1.     During its 2008 fiscal year and continuing up to its filing for 
Chapter 11 bankruptcy on July 2, 2009 (the “relevant period”), QSGI Inc. (“QSGI” or the 
“Company”) was a reseller of and maintenance services provider for used computer 
equipment.  Sherman, who during the relevant period served as QSGI’s Chief Executive 
Officer and Chairman, was aware of deficiencies in and the circumvention of internal 
controls for inventory and the resulting falsification of the Company’s books and records.  
On occasion in 2008 and increasing in frequency in 2009, Sherman improperly accelerated 
the recognition on QSGI’s books and records of accounts receivable and receipt of 
inventory in order to increase the borrowing base available under a revolving credit facility 
with the Company’s chief creditor.  Sherman withheld this information from the 
Company’s external auditors in connection with their audit of the financial statements for 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 and review of the financial statements for the 
quarter ended March 31, 2009, and made affirmative material misrepresentations and 
statements that were materially misleading as a result of his omission of information in 
management representation letters to the auditors about the design, maintenance, and 
operation of internal controls.   Further, Sherman signed a Form 10-K and a Form 10-K/A 
for the 2008 fiscal year, each containing a management’s report on internal control over 
financial reporting (“ICFR”), as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) and Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(c), which falsely represented 
that he, in his capacity as CEO, had participated in assessing the effectiveness of the 
Company’s ICFR.  Sherman also signed certifications required under Section 302 of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act and Rule 13a-14 of the Exchange Act included in filings with the 
Commission falsely representing that he had evaluated ICFR and, based on this evaluation, 
disclosed all significant deficiencies to the auditors.  The certifications were attached to the 
2008 Forms 10-K and 10-K/A, and to the first quarter 2009 Form 10-Q filed with the 
Commission, which Sherman also signed.  
     
       B.     RESPONDENT 
 
              2.      Sherman, age 50 and a resident of West Palm Beach, Florida, 
founded QSGI in 2001.  He has since served as QSGI’s CEO and Chairman of its Board of 
Directors.  After the Company filed for bankruptcy and until at least July 2010, he served as 
Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer.  
               
       C.     RELEVANT ENTITY 
                       
              3.     QSGI, Inc., incorporated in 1967 in Delaware under a different name  
and headquartered during the relevant period in West Palm Beach, Florida, is engaged in the 
business of purchasing, refurbishing, selling, and servicing used computer equipment, parts 
and mainframes.   On May 4, 2011, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of 
Florida, West Palm Beach Division, confirmed QSGI’s plan of reorganization pursuant to 
which, effective June 17, 2011, the corporate shell merged with a private company which 
had been founded by Sherman and others.  The Company’s common stock is registered 
with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and quoted on the 
OTC Link (formerly “Pink Sheets”) operated by OTC Markets Group Inc. 
 
       D.     SHERMAN’S AWARENESS OF DEFICIENCIES IN AND 
              CIRCUMVENTION OF INVENTORY CONTROLS            .                            
 
              4.      During the relevant period, QSGI maintained inventory principally 
at facilities in New Jersey and Minnesota.  The New Jersey inventory, which comprised 
50% of the company’s reported gross inventory and 55% of its reported net inventory, after 
reduction for reserves, as of the close of its fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, was 
comprised of laptops, monitors, and other consumer electronics and components.  The 
Minnesota inventory, which comprised 40% of QSGI’s reported gross inventory and 35% 
of its reported net inventory, after reduction for reserves, as of the close of QSGI’s 2008 
fiscal year, was comprised chiefly of servers, mainframes, and component parts. 

                                           2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                
               5.     For a period of years prior to the Company filing for bankruptcy in 
2009, QSGI experienced recurring inventory control problems.  Throughout the relevant 
period, Company personnel: (1) shipped certain inventory received into its facilities out to 
customers without making the appropriate entries into the Company’s books and records; 
and (2) removed items from physical inventory without relieving the inventory from the 
Company’s books and records.  Company personnel removed component parts from the 
physical inventory for such parts without recording the parts removed and occasionally 
stripped component parts from operating systems without recording the parts removed.  As 
a result, the Company’s books and records incorrectly reflected certain components in 
inventory and operating systems as intact systems.  These component parts were then sold 
by the Company or used for the Company’s maintenance services.     
        
               6.     These internal control problems resulted in the falsification of 
QSGI’s books and records relating to QSGI’s inventory.   
                
               7.     These inventory control problems escalated at the Minnesota facility 
beginning in 2007 for several reasons.  First, a manufacturer’s policy of curtailing resellers’ 
ability to modify machines to customers’ specifications hastened QSGI’s shift from selling 
machines to selling parts and providing repair and maintenance services.  This, in turn, 
exacerbated the problem in Minnesota of personnel removing component parts from 
operating systems without any corresponding adjustment to the Company’s books and 
records.  The units continued to be recorded on the books and records as intact systems.  
Second, key personnel, including accounting personnel, left the Minnesota operations in 
late 2007.  Personnel designated to replace the departed accounting staff lacked an 
accounting background and failed to fully carry out their responsibilities.  Third, while 
QSGI management had undertaken to design, document, and implement internal controls to 
come into compliance with federal securities law requirements, such efforts were not begun 
in earnest in Minnesota until late 2007, after the departure of key personnel.  Prior to that 
point, QSGI senior management had accorded Minnesota personnel a fair amount of 
autonomy, including using an accounting system that differed from the one used in New 
Jersey. 
 
               8.      The Company’s efforts to introduce new controls to the Minnesota 
operations during the 2008 fiscal year largely failed.  More particularly, the Company 
failed to design procedures taking into account the existing control environment, including 
the qualifications and experience level of persons employed to handle accounting.  Training 
of accounting, sales, and warehouse personnel either did not take place or was inadequate.  
As a result, controls the Company attempted to implement in February 2008 were widely 
ignored during the ensuing ten months of the 2008 fiscal year and well into the 2009 fiscal 
year.  For example, sales and warehouse personnel often failed to document their removal 
of items from inventory or, to the extent they did prepare the paperwork, accounting 
personnel often failed to process the paperwork and to adjust inventory in the company’s 
financial reporting system.  The Company’s attempts to monitor compliance on an ongoing 
basis were also inadequate.  Company personnel regularly circumvented controls.   
 

                                            3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

               9.     In periodic filings with the Commission relating to the relevant 
period and certifications included therein pursuant to Rule 13a-14 of the Exchange Act, 
Sherman acknowledged his responsibility for the design and operation of internal controls.   
 
               10.    During the relevant period, Sherman knew of ongoing deficiencies 
in and the circumvention of internal controls relating to inventory.  For example, in the 
final days of the 2008 fiscal year, QSGI senior management, including Sherman, 
communicated openly amongst themselves about the failed implementation, including 
training in, and circumvention of controls introduced to the Minnesota operations earlier in 
the year.  Management agreed that corrective action was needed which, given the timing, 
could not be undertaken until 2009.  Based on further communications, management, 
including Sherman, was aware that the problems continued through the Company filing for 
bankruptcy in July 2009.    
                  
       D.      SHERMAN’S IMPROPER ACCELERATION OF RECOGNITION        
               OF INVENTORY AND ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                          .   
        
               11.    QSGI reported net losses in each fiscal year from 2005 through 
2008.  Under these circumstances, QSGI’s ability to procure operating funds was critical to 
the Company’s survival.  
 
               12.    In mid-2008, QSGI entered into a revolving credit facility with its 
chief creditor.  QSGI’s inventory and accounts receivable factored into the weekly 
calculation of the borrowing base under the revolving credit facility.  A QSGI employee 
calculated the borrowing base and reported it to Sherman and to QSGI’s Chief Financial 
Officer, subsequently redesignated QSGI’s Vice President of Finance and Controller, 
(“PFO”) for their review prior to sending it to the chief creditor.         
                
               13.    On occasion in 2008 and continuing on a more frequent basis up 
until the company filed for bankruptcy in July 2009, the weekly calculations would show 
that QSGI had exceeded its borrowing limit or would not be able to borrow enough to 
continue operations through the upcoming week.  When this occurred, Sherman, either 
directly or indirectly through the PFO, directed the QSGI employee to not report the 
calculations to the creditor pending other items being posted to the books and records so 
that the employee could redo the weekly calculation.   
 
               14.    In order to increase the borrowing base, Sherman directed the 
accelerated recognition of accounts receivable and/or the receipt of product into inventory 
on QSGI’s books and records.   Under generally accepted accounting principles, 
recognition of the accounts receivables and receipt of product into inventory should not 
have occurred until days or up to approximately a week later, when all conditions for 
recognition had been satisfied.   
        
               15.    Once the accounts receivable and/or receipt of inventory were 
improperly recorded on QSGI’s books and records, the QSGI employee would recalculate 
the borrowing base using the new figures 

                                            4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       E.       SHERMAN MISLED QSGI’s EXTERNAL AUDITORS 
 
               16.    At no time during the relevant period did Sherman disclose, or direct 
anyone else to disclose, to QSGI’s external auditors the foregoing inventory and accounts 
receivable issues and the resulting falsification of QSGI’s books and records. 
                
               17.    To the contrary, in management representations letters to the 
auditors, Sherman made affirmative misrepresentations and made statements that were 
misleading as a result of his omitting material facts which were necessary in order to make 
the statements made not misleading.   Sherman affirmatively represented in management 
representation letters he provided to the auditors in connection with their review of 
quarterly financial statements in 2008 that either there were no significant deficiencies or 
that he had disclosed to the auditors all such deficiencies.  At the conclusion of the fiscal 
year, he provided yet another management representation letter in connection with the 
external auditors’ audit of the 2008 fiscal year financial statements in which he 
acknowledged his responsibility for establishing and maintaining ICFR.  Omitted from the 
letter was any reference to the existence, or his disclosure to the auditors, of significant 
deficiencies.  Following on his management representation letters for the first three quarters 
of 2008, however, and in the context of his having acknowledged in the year-end 
management representation letter his responsibility for establishing and maintaining ICFR, 
the omission of any reference to significant deficiencies implied falsely that none existed.  
In the management representation letter relating to the external auditors’ review of the first 
quarter 2009 financial statements, Sherman affirmatively misrepresented that he had 
disclosed to the auditors all significant deficiencies.      
                
               18.    Had Sherman disclosed to the external auditors the deficiencies in 
and the circumvention of inventory controls and the improper acceleration of accounts 
receivable and inventory recognition described above, the auditors would have changed the 
nature, timing, and extent of their procedures in conducting the audit of the financial 
statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 and review of the financial 
statements for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.   
                
       F.      SHERMAN’S FALSE REPRESENTATIONS IN MANAGEMENT’S 
               REPORT ON ICFR AND CONCERNING QSGI’S CRITICAL 
               ACCOUNTING POLICIES                                                                    
                                  ..                              . .... 
               19.    QSGI’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 
included a Company management’s report on ICFR, as required by Section 404 of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act and Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(c).  A management’s report on ICFR 
was also included in a Form 10-K/A for the 2008 fiscal year.  
        
               20.    The management report included in both filings falsely represented 
that QSGI’s management, with the participation of QSGI’s CEO, Sherman, had evaluated 
QSGI’s ICFR as of December 31, 2008 using the criteria set forth by the Committee of 
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control – Integrated 

                                            5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

Framework.  In fact, Sherman, in his capacity as CEO, did not participate in any evaluation 
and was unfamiliar with the referenced framework.   
        
               21.    The discussion on critical accounting policies in QSGI’s Form 10-K 
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 falsely stated that: (1) QSGI “recognize[d] 
revenue when it is realized or realizable and earned”; and (2)  “[m]anagement continually 
monitors its inventory valuation . . . .”  
 
               22.    The discussion on critical accounting policies included in QSGI’s   
Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 falsely stated that, 
“[m]anagement closely monitors and analyzes inventory for potential obsolescence and 
slow-moving items on an item-by-item basis . . . .”   
                
               23.    Sherman knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that these 
statements were materially false and misleading.  During the relevant period, he had 
directed the improper accelerated recognition of accounts receivable, which would have 
had the effect of improperly increasing revenue by a commensurate amount.  He also knew 
that the Company did not closely monitor inventory in the manner described because the 
Company lacked the necessary resources.  
  
               24.    Sherman signed the 2008 Form 10-K in his capacity as Chief 
Executive Officer and Chairman of QSGI’s Board of Directors.  Sherman signed the 2008 
Form 10-K/A in his capacity as Chairman, CEO, CFO and CAO.  He was the sole signing 
officer of the Form 10-K/A.   The 2008 Form 10-K and Form 10-K/A were filed with the 
Commission on March 31, 2009 and July 23, 2010, respectively.   
             
       G.      SHERMAN’S FALSE SARBANES-OXLEY CERTIFICATIONS 
 
               25.    Pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 302 and Exchange Act 
Rule 13a-14, Sherman signed certifications which were attached to QSGI’s 2008 Forms 
10-K and 10-K/A and Form 10-Q for the periods ended December 31, 2008 and March 31, 
2009, respectively.   
        
               26.    Sherman individually certified in each filing that, based on his and 
the other certifying officer’s “most recent evaluation of [ICFR],” they had disclosed to 
QSGI’s external auditors all significant deficiencies, “in the design or operation of [ICFR] 
which are reasonably likely to adversely affect [QSGI’s] ability to record, process, 
summarize and report financial information.”  Omitted from the certification attached to the 
Form 10-K, but included in the certification attached to the Form 10-Q, were Sherman’s 
certifications to the effect that the other certifying officer and he: (1) had been responsible 
for establishing and maintaining ICFR and designing, or supervising others in the design 
of, ICFR; and (2) had designed, or caused to be designed, such ICFR.   
        
               27.    Sherman’s certifications were false because: (1) he had not 
participated in designing, establishing, or maintaining ICFR, and had not evaluated ICFR; 
(2) he and others had on occasion circumvented QSGI’s internal controls in accelerating 

                                            6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

improperly the recognition of accounts receivable and inventory; and (3) the other 
certifying officer and Sherman had not made the referenced disclosures to the external 
auditors.  
                
               28.    Sherman knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that his 
certifications were materially false and misleading.   
                
               29.    As mentioned, Sherman signed the 2008 Form 10-K and Form 10-
K/A, which were filed with the Commission.  Sherman also signed the Form 10-Q for the 
first quarter of 2009 in his capacity as CEO and Chairman of the Board of Directors,   
which was filed with the Commission on May 14, 2009.      
 
       H.      VIOLATIONS 
 
               30.    As a result of the conduct described above, Sherman violated 
Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibits fraudulent 
conduct in connection with the purchase or sale of any security involving: a) the use of any 
device, scheme, or artifice to defraud; b) the making of material misrepresentations or 
omissions; and c) any act, practice, or course of business which operates or would operate 
as a fraud or deceit upon any person.   
        
               31.    As a result of the conduct described above, Sherman caused QSGI’s 
violations of Exchange Act Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B), which require reporting 
issuers to make and keep accurate books and records and devise and maintain effective 
internal accounting controls, respectively. 
        
               32.    As a result of the conduct described above, Sherman violated 
Exchange Act Section 13(b)(5), which prohibits any person from knowingly circumventing 
or knowingly failing to implement a system of internal accounting controls or knowingly 
falsifying any book, record or account subject to Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2).  Sherman 
also violated Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1, which prohibits any person from, directly or 
indirectly, falsifying or causing to be falsified, any book, record or account subject to 
Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2).   
        
               33.    As a result of the conduct described above, Sherman violated 
Exchange Act Rule 13b2-2, which prohibits any director or officer of an issuer from, 
directly or indirectly: (a) making or causing to be made a materially false or misleading 
statement; or (b) omitting or causing another person to omit to state a material fact 
necessary in order to make statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such 
statements were made, not misleading, to an accountant in connection with financial 
statement audits, reviews, or examinations or the preparation or filing of any document or 
report required to be filed with the Commission.   
        
               34.    As a result of the conduct described above, Sherman violated 
Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a), which requires that an issuer’s principal executive officer, or 

                                            7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

person’s performing similar functions, certify each periodic report containing financial 
statements filed by an issuer pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.   
 
                                            III. 
        
       In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement, the Commission 
deems it necessary and appropriate that cease-and-desist proceedings be instituted to 
determine: 
        
       A.      Whether the allegations set forth in Section II hereof are true and, in 
connection therewith, to afford Respondent an opportunity to establish any defenses to such 
allegations;  
        
       B.      Whether, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent should 
be ordered to cease and desist from committing or causing violations of and any future 
violations of Sections 10(b), 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and 
Rules 10b-5, 13a-14, 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder; 
        
       C.      What, if any, remedial action is appropriate against Respondent, including, 
but not limited to, civil penalties pursuant to Section 21B(a) of the Exchange Act; 
        
       D.      Whether, pursuant to Section 21C(f) of the Exchange Act, Respondent 
should be prohibited, conditionally or unconditionally, and permanently or for such period 
of time as it shall determine, from acting as an officer or director of any issuer that has a 
class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act, or that is required 
to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act; and 
        
                                            IV. 
        
       IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the 
questions set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened not earlier than 30 days and not 
later than 60 days from service of this Order at a time and place to be fixed, and before an 
Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the 
Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.110. 
        
       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent shall file an Answer to the allegations 
contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as provided by 
Rule 220 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220.  
        
       If Respondent fails to file the directed answer, or fails to appear at a hearing after 
being duly notified, the Respondent may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be 
determined against him upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be 
deemed to be true as provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of the Commission's 
Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R.  §§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f) and 201.310. 
        

                                             8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

       This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondent personally or by certified 
mail. 
        
       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an 
initial decision no later than 300 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to 
Rule 360(a)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  
        
       In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission 
engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually 
related proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter, 
except as witness or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice.  Since this proceeding is 
not “rule making” within the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it 
is not deemed subject to the provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any 
final Commission action. 
        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                              Jill M. Peterson 
                                                              Assistant Secretary 
  
 

                                              9 
