---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  
 SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
 Release No.  73224 / September 25, 2014 
  
 ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
 Release No. 3587 / September 25, 2014 
  
 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
 File No.  3-16171 
  
                                             
 In the Matter of                           ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                            ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE  -AND-
       MAYER HOFFMAN                        DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
       McCANN, P.C.                         SECTIONS 4C AND 21C OF THE 
                                            SECURITIES EXCHANCE ACT OF 1934 
              Respondent.                   AND RULE 102(e) OF  THE COMMISSION’S 
                                            
                                                      
                                                        
                                                
 
                                           I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice against Mayer Hoffman McCann, P.C. (“Respondent” or “MHM”).   
 
                                          II. 
 
      After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement (“Enforcement”) and the Office of the 
Chief Accountant (“OCA”) allege that: 
       
      A.    SUMMARY 
 
      1.     Mayer Hoffman McCann P.C. (“MHM”) is a public accounting firm associated with 
CBIZ,  Inc.  (“CBIZ”),  a  publicly  traded  company,  through  a  business  model  referred  to  as  an 
alternative practice structure (“APS”).  CBIZ’s APS model with MHM utilizes an administrative 
service agreement (“ASA”) which requires MHM to lease from CBIZ virtually all of the human 
capital, equipment and overhead MHM requires to perform its attest work, in exchange for a majority 
of MHM’s revenue. 
       
---------------------Page 2---------------------

       2.     CBIZ is an associated entity of MHM, and CBIZ and MHM are viewed as a single 
entity for Commission auditor independence purposes. 
        
       3.     MHM has numerous attest clients that file reports with the Commission, including 
Tradebot Systems, Inc. “(Tradebot”), a registered broker-dealer.  Pursuant to Rule 17a-5 promulgated 
under  Section  17(a)  of  the  Exchange  Act,  Tradebot  is  required  to  file  annual  reports  with  the 
Commission containing financial statements audited by an independent public accountant (“Annual 
Reports”). 
        
       4.     MHM audited Tradebot’s Annual Reports from 2004 through 2012.  From 2008 to at 
least 2013, Tradebot invested in CBIZ stock, thereby impairing MHM’s independence with respect 
to its audits of Tradebot’s 2008 through 2012 financial statements.  As a result, Tradebot’s Annual 
Reports do not comply with Rule 17a-5 for those periods. 
        
       5.     In addition to MHM’s independence violations related to the Tradebot audits, MHM’s 
procedures were deficient to prevent such independence violations for all of its broker-dealer and 
investment fund audit clients, and resulted in MHM’s multiple failures to comply with the auditor 
independence rules.   
        
       6.     MHM lacked an appropriate system of quality controls to detect transactions in CBIZ 
stock by its attest clients in order to ensure that those engagements complied with the firm’s legal and 
ethical  requirements.   MHM’s  quality  control  and  audit  procedures  failed  to  meet  adequate 
professional standards with respect to its audits of Tradebot. 
        
       7.     During the audit of its 2012 year, Tradebot was made aware that trading in CBIZ 
stock would impair MHM’s independence.  Tradebot continued to trade in CBIZ stock.  
        
       B.     RESPONDENT 
        
       8.     Mayer    Hoffman    McCann    P.C.,  is    a    Missouri    professional    corporation 
headquartered in Leawood, Kansas, with offices throughout the U.S.  MHM’s Commission-related 
attest practice includes registered broker-dealers, investment funds and publicly traded companies.   
 
       C.     RELATED ENTITIES 
 
       9.     CBIZ,  Inc.,  is  a  Delaware  corporation  headquartered  in  Cleveland,  Ohio,  that 
provides products and services to businesses throughout the U.S.  CBIZ associates with several U.S. 
public accounting firms through its APS model, with MHM being the largest.  CBIZ’s stock is traded 
on the New York Stock Exchange. 
        
       10.    Tradebot Systems, Inc., is a broker dealer registered with the Commission, and is 
located in Kansas City, Missouri. 
        
        
                              

                                                2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       D.     CBIZ AND MHM ASSOCIATION 
 
       11.    In about 1996, CBIZ  began  using  the APS  model  to  expand its revenue base by 
acquiring the non-attest practices of public accounting firms and forming relationships with those 
public accounting firms by means of ASAs.   
        
       12.    From about 1998 to present, CBIZ entered into periodic ASAs with MHM which 
provide, among other things, that virtually all of MHM’s shareholders are salaried employees of 
CBIZ and are leased to MHM along with other CBIZ professional and non-professional staff, office 
space, equipment, and marketing and other services, to enable MHM to perform its attest practice, in 
exchange for approximately 85% of MHM’s revenues. 
 
       E.     SEC STAFF INFORMED CBIZ IT IS SUBJECT TO THE COMMISSION’S 
INDEPENDENCE STANDARDS 
 
       13.    On November 2, 1998, OCA became aware of CBIZ’s use of the APS model and its 
acquisition of non-attest practices of accounting firms.  OCA notified CBIZ of the application of the 
Commission’s independence rules: 
 
       [Y]our  affiliation  with  certain  accounting  firms  …  may  subject  you  to  the 
       application of the independence rules set forth in Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X. 
        
       . . . [A]ny accounting firm and the acquirer (“acquirer”) of that accounting firm that 
       employs any accountants that work on SEC clients of the accounting firm should 
       continue to fully comply with the SEC’s independence requirements.  
        
       14.    On August 13, 1999, OCA sent guidance to CBIZ related to independence disclosures 
provided in a CBIZ Form S-4 filing then under review.  In that letter, OCA stated:  
 
       [T]he Commission and the staff are concerned about the significant public policy 
       issues that are raised in situations where audits of public companies are performed 
       by auditors under an alternative business structure.  . . . [CBIZ] has acquired the 
       non-attest businesses of several accounting firms (“the Attest Firms”) that have 
       audited clients required to file financial statements with the [Commission]. . . .  
 
       . . . [I]n the application of the independence rules, the SEC staff will view [CBIZ] 
       and all Attest Firms as a single entity.  As a result, [CBIZ] must abide by all of the 
       independence rules that the Attest Firm must follow in order for the Attest Firm to 
       be independent of an SEC audit client. . . . 
 
       F.     SEC PROMULGATED REVISED RULE 2-01 IN 2001 
 
       15.    In   2000,   the   Commission   promulgated   an   extensive   revision   of   its   auditor 
independence requirements under Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X.  17 C.F.R. § 210.2-01.  The revised 
rule   was   adopted  in   response   to   “an   increasingly   complex   web   of   business   and   financial 

                                               3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

relationships” of public accounting firms.  Included in the revision was subsection 2-01(c)(1)(iv)(A).  
It provides: 
 
       (iv) Audit clients' financial relationships. An accountant is not independent when:  
        
       (A) Investments by the audit client in the accounting firm. An audit client has, or 
       has agreed to acquire, any direct investment in the accounting firm, such as stocks, 
       bonds, notes, options, or other securities, or the audit client's officers or directors 
       are record or beneficial owners of more than 5% of the equity securities of the 
       accounting firm. 
 
       16.    Rule 2-01(f)(2) of Regulation S-X defines “accounting firm” as “an organization . . . 
that is engaged in the practice of public accounting . . . and all of the organization’s . . . associated 
entities . . . .” 
        
       17.    CBIZ is an associated entity of MHM by virtue of its APS relationship and ASA with 
MHM. 
 
       G.     MHM LEARNED OF TRADEBOT TRADES IN CBIZ STOCK 
 
       18.    Pursuant to Rule 17a-5(d) of the Exchange Act, Tradebot is required to file an annual 
report (“Annual Report”) which contains its audited financial statements.  Rules 17a-5(d), (e) and (f) 
specifically require that the Annual Report be audited by an “independent public accountant” and a 
“public accountant who shall be in fact independent” as defined by Rule 2-01(b) and (c).  From 2004 
through 2012,  Tradebot  engaged MHM to audit its financial statements  included in the  Annual 
Report. 
        
       19.    Commencing in 2008, Tradebot began to regularly trade in CBIZ stock and continued 
to trade in that stock through 2013.   
        
       20.    Prior  to  2012,  Tradebot  was  unaware  of  any  prohibition  against  it  acquiring  any 
interest in the securities of CBIZ.  Prior to the 2012 audit period, MHM had never inquired whether 
Tradebot traded in CBIZ stock. 
        
       21.    In about mid-2012, MHM’s engagement shareholder learned from Tradebot’s CFO 
that Tradebot had traded in CBIZ stock and discussed with Tradebot’s CFO the possibility that such 
trades may impact MHM’s independence. 
        
       22.    In  response,  MHM’s  engagement  shareholder  contacted  MHM’s  national  office 
shareholder  over  independence  and  asked  “whether  or  not  that  was  something  we  need  to  be 
concerned   about   from   an   independence   issue.”      MHM’s   national   office   shareholder   over 
independence indicated he was not sure and forwarded the question to MHM’s national director of 
professional standards, MHM’s president, and members of MHM’s executive committee. 
        
       23.    On September 4, 2012, Tradebot’s CFO emailed MHM’s engagement shareholder 
seeking further guidance on the impact of Tradebot’s trading in CBIZ, asking: “Can you send me the 
link pointing to the independence issue related to trading public stock.”  

                                                4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

        
       24.    On September 6, 2012, MHM’s engagement shareholder responded to Tradebot’s 
CFO’s email, stating: “I do not have anything specific to this situation to send (as it does not exist).  
It is basically an interpretation of the SEC rules.  Our New York office had inquired of a similar 
situation in which the entity holds CBIZ stock and it was determined to be an issue….  Unfortunately 
our chief independence  officer is on a long vacation and I am trying  to get a hold of him  for 
thoughts.” 
 
       H.     MHM   WAS   ENGAGED   FOR   2012   AUDIT   BEFORE   INDEPENDENCE 
ISSUE WAS RESOLVED 
 
       25.    On  October  3,  2012,  before  resolving  whether  MHM  was  independent,  Tradebot 
engaged MHM for the 2012 audit.  In connection with that engagement, MHM did not discuss with 
Tradebot the unresolved independence issue and proceeded to sign the engagement letter. 
        
       26.    MHM’s potential independence conflict should have been resolved prior to signing 
the engagement letter. 
        
       I.     MHM     PROVIDED     ERRONEOUS     INSTRUCTION     TO     TRADEBOT 
REGARDING INDEPENDENCE ISSUE 
        
       27.    On  October  28,  2012,  MHM’s  national  office  shareholder  over  independence 
contacted MHM’s national director of professional standards and MHM’s president regarding the 
Tradebot  independence  issue.    On  October  30,  2012,  MHM’s  national  director  of  professional 
standards provided guidance to MHM’s national office shareholder over independence and MHM’s 
engagement shareholder, citing Rule 2-01(c)(1)(iv)(A) and instructing them that he thought MHM 
would have to resign if Tradebot would be able to acquire more than 5% of the equity securities of 
CBIZ. 
        
       28.    MHM’s national director of professional standards’s guidance to MHM’s national 
office shareholder over independence and MHM’s engagement shareholder did not comply with 
Rule 2-01(c)(1)(iv)(A). 
        
       29.    In October 2012, MHM requested a meeting with the Commission staff (“Staff”) to 
discuss matters relevant to the investigation, including a response to a request by the Staff to know 
whether MHM monitored the holdings of its broker-dealer clients for CBIZ stock, and whether there 
were instances of a broker-dealer client taking a position in CBIZ stock. 
        
       30.    The  Staff  met with MHM on December 4, 2012; MHM’s president attended the 
meeting with MHM’s counsel.  At the meeting, despite MHM’s and MHM’s president’s knowledge 
regarding Tradebot’s trades in CBIZ, MHM failed to inform the Staff of Tradebot’s trades in CBIZ, 
even after specific requests for information regarding possible broker-dealer attest client trades in 
CBIZ stock.  At that meeting the Staff conveyed to MHM that an audit client holding even one share 
of CBIZ would impair MHM’s independence. 
  

                                              5 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       31.    On  December  5,  2012,  one  day  after  MHM’s  meeting  with  the  Staff,  MHM’s 
engagement    shareholder  emailed  Tradebot  concerning  MHM’s    conclusion    regarding  the 
independence question posed in September 2012, stating: 
 
       Following up on the independence issues we discussed earlier this year, below is 
       the SEC rule.  I am assuming Tradebot has not become the beneficial owner of 
       more than 5% of the CBIZ stock at one time, however, I would like to propose 
       perhaps you put a limit on the number of shares to be acquired at any one time. Is 
       that possible??  
        
       Reg. SX §210.2-01(c)(1)(iv)(A)- 
        
       An accountant is not independent when: 
       (A)    Investments by the audit client in the accounting firm.  An audit client has, 
       or has agreed to acquire, any direct investment in the accounting firm, such as 
       stocks, bonds, notes, options, or other securities, or the audit client’s officers or 
       directors are record or beneficial owners of more than 5% of the equity securities 
       of the accounting firm. 
   
       32.    MHM’s engagement shareholder’s instruction to Tradebot was erroneous because the 
5% threshold referenced in the rule does not apply to Tradebot; rather, it only applies to Tradebot’s 
officers and directors. 
        
       33.    Tradebot  responded  to  MHM’s  engagement  shareholder’s  email  by  indicating  it 
would place a 10,000 share limit on trades in CBIZ, an amount that was below 5% of CBIZ’s 
outstanding shares.  
        
       34.    Tradebot continued to trade in CBIZ stock through 2013. 
  
       J.     MHM  LACKED  QUALITY  CONTROL  OR  AUDIT  PROCEDURES  TO 
ENSURE CLIENTS DID NOT TRADE IN CBIZ STOCK 
        
       35.    Until 2013, MHM did not have any quality control or audit procedures to ensure 
clients did not trade in CBIZ stock or to otherwise comply with Rule 2-01(c)(1)(iv)(A).  Until 2013, 
MHM provided no guidance to any audit client, including Tradebot, regarding trading prohibitions in 
CBIZ stock by the audit client.  Further, MHM did not implement any audit procedures during its 
audits of Tradebot, or any other broker-dealer clients, to review the securities they were trading to 
ensure compliance with Rule 2-01(c)(1)(iv)(A). 
        
       K.     MHM  PROVIDED  AUDIT  OPINIONS  FOR  2008  THROUGH  2012  THAT 
REPRESENTED IT WAS INDEPENDENT OF TRADEBOT 
        
       36.    MHM  performed  audits  of  Tradebot’s  financial  statements  for  the  periods  2008 
through 2012 in connection with Tradebot’s Annual Reports filed with the Commission.  MHM 
provided  audit  opinions  for  those  audits  which  indicated,  among  other  things,  that  MHM  was 
independent of Tradebot for those audits, when in fact, MHM was not independent. 
        

                                              6 
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

       L.     MHM’s IMPROPER PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT 
        
       37.    Section 4C(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules 
of Practice allow the Commission to censure, or deny temporarily or permanently, an accounting 
firm’s  privilege  of  practicing  before  it  if  the  firm  is  found  to  have  “engaged  .  .  .  in  improper 
professional conduct.” 
 
       38.    Pursuant  to  Section  4C(2)  and  Rule  102(e)(1)(ii),  improper  professional  conduct 
involves a violation of applicable professional standards through intentional, knowing or reckless 
conduct, and two types of negligent conduct: a single instance of highly unreasonable conduct for 
which heightened scrutiny is warranted; or repeated instances of unreasonable conduct that indicate a 
lack of competence to practice before the Commission. 
        
       39.    “Because of the importance of an accountant’s independence to the integrity of the 
financial reporting system, the Commission has concluded that circumstances that raise questions 
about  an  accountant’s  independence  always  merit  heightened  scrutiny.”  Amendment  to  Rule 
102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Release No. 33-7593 (Oct. 19, 1998), 63 Fed. 
Reg. 57168. 
        
               1.  Relevant Audit Standards 
        
       40.     The term “applicable professional standards” primarily refers to generally accepted 
accounting principles (“GAAP”), generally accepted auditing standards (“GAAS”), the AICPA      Code 
of Professional Conduct, and Commission regulations, but is broad enough to accommodate changes 
in the body of professional guidance routinely used by accountants. 
        
       41.    For   auditors   of   registered   broker-dealers,   such   as   Tradebot,   the   applicable 
                                                                                       1
professional standards related to GAAS are those that have been issued by the AICPA.  
        
       42.    Both Rule 2-01 and GAAS require auditors to maintain strict independence from their 
audit  clients.    AICPA  Auditing  Standards  AU  Section  150.02  requires  that  the  auditor  “maintain 
independence . . . in all matters relating to the audit.”  AICPA Auditing Standards AU Section 220.03 
states “[i]t is of utmost importance to the profession that the general public maintain confidence in 
the independence of auditors.” 
        
       43.    GAAS  requires  that  an  auditor  have  policies  and  procedures  designed  to  prevent 
independence impairment, and client acceptance and continuance procedures that ensure compliance 
with legal requirements, discussed below.   
        
       44.    MHM was negligent in its failure to comply with those professional standards. 
        
                               

                                                 
1
 The AICPA auditing standards are applicable for the audits of broker  - dealers,  Commission 
Guidance Regarding Auditing, Attestation, and Related Practice Standards Related to Brokers and 
Dealers, Release No. 34-62991, Sept. 24, 2010. 
                                                 7 
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

              2.   MHM’S Independence Was Impaired When It Audited Tradebot’s 2008 – 
              2012 Financial Statements  
        
                      a.  Rule 17a-5  
        
       45.    Rule 17a-5 of the Exchange Act requires registered broker dealers to file periodic 
reports with the Commission including, pursuant to Rule 17a-5(d)(1)(i), an annual report “which 
shall be audited by an independent public accountant.”  Rule 17a-5(e)(1)(i) further states: “An audit 
shall be conducted by a public accountant who shall be in fact independent as defined in paragraph 
(f)(3) of this section herein, and shall give an opinion covering the statements filed pursuant to 
paragraph (d)…”   
        
       46.    Rule 17a-5(f)(3) defines independence as “in accordance with the provisions of § 
210.2-01(b) and (c) of this chapter.” 
        
                      b.  Rule 2-01(b) and (c) 
        
       47.    The general standard of auditor independence is described in Rule 2-01(b) and states 
an accountant is not independent if not “capable of exercising objective and impartial judgment on all 
issues encompassed within the accountant’s engagement.”    
        
       48.    Additionally,  Rule  2-01(c)’s  subsections  set  forth  “a  non-exclusive  specification  of 
circumstances inconsistent with” Rule 2-01(b)’s general requirement.  The Commission stated: “As 
to circumstances specifically set forth in our rule, we have set forth a bright-line test: an auditor is not 
independent  if  he  or  she  maintains  the  relationships,  acquires  the  interests,  or  engages  in  the 
transactions   specified   in   the   rule.”   Revision   of   the   Commission’s   Auditor   Independence 
Requirements, Release No. 33-7919, 65 Fed. Reg. 76008 at 76030. 
        
       49.    When  MHM  audited  Tradebot’s  financial  statements  during  the  audit  periods  in 
which Tradebot had acquired direct investments in CBIZ stock, namely 2008 through 2012, MHM’s 
independence was impaired as to those audits. 
        
        
              3.  MHM Violated Other Applicable Professional Standards 
        
       50.    MHM violated professional standards  that  require an accounting  firm to establish 
policies and procedures designed to assure independence, and client engagement procedures that 
ensure compliance with legal requirements and risks associated with the engagement. 
        
                      a.  MHM   Failed   to   Design   Policies   and   Procedures   That   Assured 
                          Independence  
        
       51.    AICPA quality control standards are professional standards under GAAS.  Pursuant 
to AICPA QC Section 10 Paragraph 22, an auditor is required to  have policies and procedures 
“designed to provide with reasonable assurance that the firm … maintain independence . . . .”  
        

                                                8 
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

       52.    In about 2012, MHM had well over a hundred broker dealer and investment fund 
clients, including Tradebot, which regularly trade in the securities of thousands of public companies.  
Despite the risks of audit clients trading in CBIZ securities, MHM did not have any written policies 
or procedures to address the independence issues established by Rule  2-01(c)(1)(iv)(A)  of audit 
clients trading in CBIZ securities.   
        
       53.    Further, MHM did not have any written procedures to inform audit clients of the 
transactional proscriptions of trading in CBIZ securities or any written procedures to follow if audit 
clients traded in CBIZ securities in violation of Rule 2-01(c)(1)(iv)(A).   
        
       54.    Until 2013, MHM’s audit clients were unaware of restrictions on the trading of CBIZ 
securities.   
 
                      b.  MHM Failed To Follow Proper Client Engagement Procedures 
        
       55.    Pursuant  to  AICPA  QC  Section  10  Paragraph  27,  an  auditor  is  required  to  have 
adequate policies and procedures for client continuance that are “designed to provide the firm with 
reasonable assurance that it will … continue … engagements only when the firm can comply with 
legal and relevant ethical requirements.”   
        
       56.    After learning in 2012  of Tradebot’s CBIZ transactions,  MHM failed to  perform 
adequate  client  acceptance  procedures  to  ensure  it  was  independent  when  being  engaged  and 
beginning substantive field work.  Shortly after internal consultation over the independence question 
was  initiated  but  before  MHM’s  national  director  of  professional  standards  had  provided  any 
guidance to the engagement shareholder, MHM proceeded with the  engagement.  By doing so, 
MHM entered into an engagement without determining whether it could continue with the audit.  
        
              4.  MHM Violated AICPA Professional Standards 
  
       57.    Through the conduct described above, MHM violated GAAS provisions AU Sections 
150.02 and 220.03, AICPA QC Section 10 Paragraphs 22 and 27 and thereby negligently engaged in 
improper professional conduct.   
        
       58.    Through   its   repeated   violations   of   applicable   professional   standards,   MHM 
demonstrated a lack of competence to practice before the Commission.  
 
       M.     MHM CAUSED TRADEBOT’S VIOLATION OF SECTION 17(a) AND RULE 
17a-5 
        
       59.     Under  Section  21C  of  the  Exchange  Act,  a  person  is a “cause” of another's 
primary  violation  if  the  person  knew  or  should  have  known  that  its act  or  omission would 
contribute  to  the  primary  violation.   Negligence  is sufficient  to  establish “causing” liability 
under Section  21C  when a person  is alleged  to have caused  a primary  violation  that does  not 
require scienter.   In re KPMG Peat Marwick, Exch. Act. Rei. No. 43862  (Jan. 19, 2001),  aff'd, 
KPMG v. SEC, 289 F.3d    I 09 (D.C. Cir. 2002).   
        

                                                9 
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

       60.     MHM caused Tradebot’s violations of Section 17(a) and Rule 17a-5 by certifying, 
as  independent  public  accountants,  Tradebot’s  financial  statements  contained  in  its  Annual 
Reports, when, in fact, MHM was not independent of Tradebot.   
        
       61.     Further, MHM lacked an adequate system of controls to maintain independence 
and failed to inform Tradebot of the proscription against trading in CBIZ stock.  Those failures 
impaired MHM’s independence and thereby caused Tradebot to file Annual Reports that did not 
contain audits by an independent accountant.  
        
       62.     MHM was negligent in certifying it was independent of Tradebot and having an 
inadequate system of controls and by failing to notify Tradebot of the proscription against trading 
in CBIZ stock. 
        
                                               III. 
        
       In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement and the Office of Chief 
Accountant, the Commission deems it appropriate that public administrative and cease-and-desist 
proceedings be instituted to determine: 
        
       A.      Whether the allegations set forth in Section II hereof are true and, in connection 
therewith,  to  afford  Respondent  MHM  an  opportunity  to  establish  any  defenses  to  such 
allegations;  
        
       B.      What, if any, remedial action is appropriate against Respondent MHM pursuant to 
Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, including, 
but not limited to, censure or denying, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before the Commission; and 
        
       C.      Whether, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act,  Respondent should be 
ordered to cease and desist from committing or causing violations of and any future violations of 
Exchange Act Section 17(a) and Rule 17a-5 thereunder, whether Respondent should be ordered to 
pay a civil penalty pursuant to Section 21B(a) of the Exchange Act, and whether Respondent should 
be ordered to pay disgorgement pursuant to Section 21C(e) of the Exchange Act. 
        
                                               IV. 
        
       IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the questions 
set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened not earlier than 30 days and not later than 60 days 
from service of this Order at a time and place to be fixed, and before an Administrative Law Judge 
to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
17 C.F.R. § 201.110. 
        

       IT  IS  FURTHER  ORDERED  that  Respondent  MHM  shall  file  an  answer  to  the 
allegations  contained  in  this  Order  within  twenty  (20)  days  after  service  of  this  Order,  as 
provided by Rule 220 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220. 
        

                                               10 
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

       If Respondent MHM fails to file the directed answer, or fails to appear at a hearing after 
being  duly  notified,  the  Respondent  may  be  deemed  in  default  and  the  proceedings  may  be 
determined against the Respondent upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may 
be deemed to be true as provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f), and 310 of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. §§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f), and 201.310. 
        
       This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondent as provided for in the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice. 
        
       IT  IS  FURTHER  ORDERED that the  Administrative  Law Judge  shall issue  an initial 
decision no later than 300 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to Rule 360(a)(2) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.360(a)(2). 
        
       In  the  absence  of  an  appropriate  waiver,  no  officer  or  employee  of  the  Commission 
engaged  in  the  performance  of  investigative  or  prosecuting  functions  in  this  or  any  factually 
related proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter, except 
as a witness or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice. Since this proceeding is not a “rule 
making” within the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it is not deemed 
subject to the  provisions of  Section 553 delaying the  effective  date  of  any final  Commission 
action. 
        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
 
                                                    Brent J. Fields 
                                                    Secretary 
 
  
 
 
 

                                                11   
