---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                              before the 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 74208 / February 4, 2015  
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3626 / February 4, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16375 
                                                 
                                                :        
                                                :        
                                                :         
        In the Matter of                        :       ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                :       PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
                STEVEN NEIL, CPA,               :       102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                :       PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                Respondent.                     :       IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                :        
                                                :        
____________________________________ :                    
                                                         
                                                   I. 
 
        The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Steven 
Neil (“Respondent” or “Neil”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
         1
Practice.    
                                                     
                                                  II. 
 
        In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
        The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been   by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of   the rules and regulations 
thereunder.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
               1.     Neil, age 62, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to 
practice in the State of California.  He served as Chief Financial and Administrative Officer of 
Diamond Foods, Inc. (“Diamond”), from 2008 until he was placed on administrative leave in 
February 2012 and terminated from his position in November 2012.  Neil’s California license is 
currently inactive. 
        
               2.     Diamond was, at all relevant times, a Delaware corporation with its principal 
place of business in San Francisco, California.  Diamond was engaged in the business of producing 
and selling packaged foods, including walnuts.  At all relevant times, Diamond’s common stock 
was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (“Exchange Act”), and traded on the NASDAQ National Market. 
 
               3.     On January 9, 2014, the Commission filed a complaint against Neil in SEC 
v. Steven Neil (N.D. Cal. Civil Action No. 14-cv-122).  On February 2, 2015, the court entered an 
order permanently enjoining Neil, by consent, from future violations of Sections 10(b) and 
13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1, 13b2-2, and 13a-14 thereunder, and 
Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933.  Neil was also ordered to pay a $125,000.00 civil 
money penalty, and prohibited for five years from serving as an officer or director of any entity 
having a class of securities registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange 
Act or that is required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. 
 
               4.     According to the Commission's complaint, Neil directed an effort to 
fraudulently underreport money paid to walnut growers by delaying the recording of payments into 
later fiscal periods.  By manipulating walnut costs, Diamond correspondingly reported higher net 
income and inflated earnings to exceed analysts’ estimates for fiscal quarters in 2010 and 2011. 
After Diamond restated its financial results in November 2012 to reflect the true costs of acquiring 
walnuts, the company's stock price slid to just $17 per share from a high of $90 per share in 2011. 
  
                                               IV. 
                                                  
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Neil’s Offer. 
 
 

                                                 2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Neil is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
       B.      After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                      (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
      

                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Brent J. Fields 
                                                    Secretary 
 

                                                4  
