---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                               
                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 79396 / November 23, 2016 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3831 / November 23, 2016 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-15358 

                           
                           : 
                           : 
In the Matter of              ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           : 
                              REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
                           : 
Brian Zucker, CPA             BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           : 
                           : 
                           
        
       On June 14, 2013, Brian Zucker, CPA (“Zucker”) was denied the privilege of appearing 
or practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public administrative 
proceedings instituted by the Commission against Zucker pursuant to Section 4C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission's 
                 1
Rules of Practice.   This order is issued in response to Zucker’s application for reinstatement to 
appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant. 
        
       The Commission’s order related to  violations of the auditor independence rules by 
Rosenberg Rich Baker Berman & Company (“RRBB”), a registered public accounting firm, and 
Zucker, a partner at the firm. Zucker performed Financial and Operations Principal (“FINOP”) 
services for a broker-dealer client, (the “Broker-Dealer”), while RRBB was serving as the 
Broker-Dealer’s auditor.  Zucker also arranged for RRBB to pay a contractor who was serving as 
the Broker-Dealer’s FINOP and directed an RRBB staff accountant to provide FINOP services to 
the Broker-Dealer.  As a consequence of this conduct, Zucker and RRBB engaged in improper 
professional conduct, violated the auditor independence rules, and caused the Broker-Dealer’s 
failure to file an annual report audited by an independent accountant. 
 
       Zucker has met all of the conditions set forth in the original order and, in his capacity as 
an independent accountant, has stated that he will comply with all requirements of the 
Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, including, but not limited to 

                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 3464 dated June 14, 2013.  Zucker was permitted, pursuant 
to the order, to apply for reinstatement after one year upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
control standards.  In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the 
preparation or review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the 
Commission, Zucker attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent 
audit committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, while practicing before the Commission in this capacity.   
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
                                                          2
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”   This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
        On the basis of the information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed 
to by Zucker, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the June 14, 2013 order denying 
him the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 
and that Zucker, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee 
of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in 
his practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to 
be filed with the Commission, and that Zucker, by undertaking to comply with all requirements 
of the Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, including, but not 
limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and 
quality control standards, in his practice before the Commission as an independent accountant 
has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Brian Zucker, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
        
       By the Commission. 
                                               
                                                              
                                                              
                                                             Brent J. Fields  
                                                             Secretary  
 

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this rule may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a hearing; 
however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated by the 
Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
