---------------------Page 1---------------------

                               UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                            Before the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 75667 / August 11, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3677 / August 11, 2015 
 
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940 
Release No. 4167 / August 11, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-16740 
                                                    ORDER INSTITUTING           
                                                    ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
In the Matter of                                    PURSUANT TO SECTION 203(f) OF THE 
                                                    INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940 , 
       VINEET KALUCHA, CA           ,               AND RULE 102(e)  OF THE 
                                                     COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE
Respondent.                                        
                                                                                  
                                                     
 
                                                 I. 
 
        The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Vineet 
Kalucha, CA (“Kalucha” or “Respondent”) pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers 
                                                                                            1
Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) and Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.     
                                                   
                                                 II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (“Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of 
                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or 
her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the 
vio lation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
                                                   
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings and the 
findings contained in Section III.3, below, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of 
this (“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                               III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
       1.      Kalucha, age 51, is a citizen of India and a permanent resident alien of the United 
States residing in Washington, D.C.  Kalucha was the founder, “Managing Partner,” and Chief 
Investment Officer of Aphelion Fund Management, LLC (“Aphelion”), an unregistered investment 
adviser.   
        
       2.      Kalucha is a Chartered Accountant licensed by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India, and has practiced as an accountant at the New Delhi, India office of a global 
accounting firm whose accountants regularly appear and practice before the Commission. 
        
       3.      On July 30, 2015, a final judgment was entered by consent against Kalucha, 
permanently restraining and enjoining him from future violations of Section 10(b) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, and 
Sections 206(1), 206(2) and 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-8 thereunder, in the civil 
action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Vineet Kalucha, et al., Civil Action 
Number 1:14-cv-03247-RMB, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New 
York.  

       4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Kalucha 
fraudulently altered an outside accounting firm’s report, that Kalucha distributed this altered report 
to prospective investors in funds managed by Aphelion, and that Kalucha misused proceeds raised 
from investors in Aphelion to pay for his personal expenses. 

                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.      Pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, Respondent Kalucha is barred from 
association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal 
advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating organization. 
 
       B.      Any reapplication for association by the Respondent Kalucha will be subject to the 
applicable laws and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned 

                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the 
following:  (a) any disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission 
has fully or partially waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the 
conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization 
arbitration award to a customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for 
the Commission order; and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or 
not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order. 
        
       C.      Pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Respondent 
Kalucha is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                      Brent J. Fields 
                                                      Secretary 
 

                                                 3  
