---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 75795 / August 31, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3680 / August 31, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-16773 
 
                                              
                                               ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
      In the Matter of                          ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
                                               PURSUANT TO SECTION 4C OF THE 
      JOHNSON LAMBERT LLP, and                 SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 
      BRADLEY SCOTT DIERICX, CPA               1934 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
      Respondents.                             PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                               IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
 
 
                                           I. 
                                             
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Johnson Lambert LLP (“Johnson 
Lambert”) and Bradley Scott Diericx, CPA (“Diericx”) (collectively, the “Respondents”), pursuant 
to Sections 4C1
              of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of 
the Commission’s Rules of Practice.2
                                  
 

                                                           
1
      Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that: 
             The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, 
             to any person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in 
             any way, if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications 
             to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to have 
             engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully 
             violated, or willfully aided and abetted violations of, any provisions of the 
             securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
              
2
       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in relevant part, that: 
             The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
             appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have 
             engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               II. 
                                                 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 4C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and 
Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                               III. 
                                                 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds 3
                                                                                  that: 
                                                 
A.     SUMMARY 
                                                 
       1.      These proceedings arise out of Johnson Lambert ’s and Diericx’s improper 
professional conduct in their audit s of the financial statements of Maven Assurance Limited 
(“Maven Assurance”) and Maven Life International Limited  (“Maven Life”)  (collectively, the 
“Maven Entities”) for the years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2010.  The audits 
failed to comply with Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (“GAAS”) in many critical 
respects, which resulted in the issuance of audit reports containing unqualified opinions that were 
not supported by sufficient appropriate audit evidence.  Specifically, Johnson Lambert and 
Diericx failed to exercise due professional care, failed to adequately staff the Maven audits, 
failed to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the existence and valuation of the 
Maven Entities’ purported investments in hedge funds and alternative investments managed by 
Nikolai Battoo, and failed to exercise professional skepticism by overlooking red flags and other 
warnings.  Due to these audit failures , Johnson Lambert and Diericx failed to detect that the 
Maven Entities’ purported investments with Battoo either did not exist or had lost virtually all of 
their value.   
        
       2.      Johnson Lambert and Diericx were aware that the Maven Entities’ prior auditor 
had issued a qualified opinion in the prior year due to its inability to obtain sufficient audit 
evidence regarding the existence and valuation of the investments with Battoo, which constituted 
the majority of the Maven Entities’ assets.  They were also aware that the Maven Entities did not 
have processes in place to value the investments with Battoo.  Nevertheless, Johnson Lambert 
assembled an audit engagement team that lacked experience auditing alternativ  e investments, 
and the engagement team failed to perform adequate substantive procedures to address these 
risks.   
                                                 

                                                           
3
       The findings are made pursuant to Respondent   s’ Offers  of Settlement and are not binding 
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

B.     RESPONDENTS 
                                                
       3.     Johnson Lambert LLP is an accounting firm headquartered in Falls Church, 
Virginia.  Johnson Lambert provides services to public companies registered with the Commission 
and has been registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) since 
2003.  Johnson Lamb ert conducted audits of the financial statements of the Maven Entities for the 
years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2010.  
        
       4.     Bradley Diericx (“Diericx”), age 42, is a resident of Wheaton, Illinois and a 
certified public accountant (“CPA”) licensed in the state of Illinois.  From June 2009 to September 
2012, Diericx was a partner at Johnson Lambert and was the engagement partner for Johnson 
Lambert’s audits of the Maven Entities’ financial statements for the years ending December 31, 
2009 and December 31, 2010.   

C.     OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES/PERSONS 
                                                
       5.     Nikolai Simon Battoo was an alternative investment manager who managed assets 
using a variety of vehicles and entities.  From 2004 through 2012, Battoo raised more than $400 
million from investors who directed their funds to his PIWM investment program and several 
hedge funds he controlled.  Battoo acted as investment adviser to investors in his Private 
International Wealth Management (“PIWM”) investment program through two entities that he 
controlled:  BC Capital Group, S.A. (Panama) (“BC Panama”) and BC Capital Group Ltd. (Hong 
Kong) (“BC Hong Kong”) (collectively the “BC Capital entities”).  In September 2012, the 
Commission filed an emergency enforcement action in district court against Battoo and the BC 
Capital entities, alleging that they defrauded investors located worldwide in violation of the 
antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws and acted as unregistered broker-dealers (the 
“SEC Battoo Lawsuit”).  On September 30, 2014, the district court entered a default judgment 
against Battoo and the BC Capital entities, which included permanent injunctions and 
disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and civil penalties totaling $358,129,196.86. 

       6.     Maven Assurance L  td. and Maven Life International Ltd. were insurance 
companies formed under the laws of Anguilla in 2006.  Maven Assurance offered investment 
products in the form of a so-called “captive insurance” program to high-net-worth individuals 
and small business owners.  Maven Life offered variable annuities.  The bulk of the funds that 
investors directed to the Maven Entities were placed with Battoo’s PIWM investment program.  
At the time the Commission  filed the SEC Battoo La wsuit, the Maven Entities’ clients believed 
they had $95 million invested with Battoo’s PIWM.  In reality, Battoo lost or stole nearly all of 
the Maven Entities’ funds.  The Maven Entities, which are now defunct, were never registered 
with the Commission and had no disciplinary history. 

       7.     Alliance Investment Management Limited (“AIM”) is a Bahamas -based company 
that is registered as a broker-dealer with the Securities Commission of the Bahamas.  AIM is a 
wholly-owned subsidiary of Benchmark Bahamas Limited, a publicly traded investment 
company listed on the Bahamas International Securities Exchange.  AIM has never been 
registered in any capacity with the Commission.  On August 8, 2014, the Commission filed 
charges against AIM and its President Julian Brown, alleging that they engaged in fraud and 
aided and abetted Battoo’s fraud.   

                                              3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

D.     FACTS 

                              The Maven Entities’ Background 

       8.     The Maven Entities offered insurance-linked investment options to U.S.-based 
investors, mainly high net worth individuals and profitable small businesses.  Maven Life sold 
variable annuities.  Maven Assurance purported to offer “captive insurance” products in which 
the vast majority of the premium was invested at the direction of the investor.  The Maven 
Entities touted their products as means of obtaining tax -deferred gains.  The Maven Entities were 
based in Anguilla, but run by individuals located in the greater Chicago area. 
        
       9.     In 2006, the Maven Entities entered into investment management agreements with 
BC Hong Kong, an entity managed and controlled by investment manager Nikolai Battoo   .  The 
agreements gave BC Hong Kong discretion to manage the Maven Entities’ assets.  Since 2006, BC 
Hong Kong purported to invest the majority of the Maven Assurance’s  assets into shares of hedge 
funds (some controlled by Battoo) and in Battoo’s PIWM  investment program, a private 
investment program that purported to invest primarily in alternative investments.  Maven Life 
invested in PIWM beginning 2008.   

                    Battoo’s Fraud and its Impact on the Maven Entities 

       10.    Battoo oversaw a massive fraud that caused investors worldwide to lose hundreds 
of millions of dollars.  Battoo touted himself as a highly successful alternative asset manager 
who achieved exceptional risk-adjusted returns.  He concealed major losses in his hedge funds 
and in his PIWM investment program and misappropriated PIWM investors’ assets for personal 
use.     

       11.    In 2008, Battoo’s hedge funds suffered major losses in several areas.  Battoo’s 
hedge funds had made large, leveraged investments in Madoff feeder funds that suffered  total 
losses as a result of the Madoff Ponzi scheme.  In addition, Battoo’s  hedge funds were invested 
heavily in fund-linked certificates whose performance was linked to Phi R Squared, a hedge fund 
managed by Battoo.  Phi R Squared suffered substantial losses in 2008 based on impairments 
caused by the financial crisis.  As a result, the fund  -linked certificates lost approximately 85% of 
their value.  Battoo’s PIWM investment program also suffered substantial losses in 2008 due to 
its high concentration of exposure to Battoo’s hedge funds.  Rather than disclose the losses t o 
existing and prospective PIWM investors, Battoo concealed the losses by reporting fictitious 
strong investment returns in investment reports and marketing materials.  He created fictitious 
account statements and verification reports on the letterhead of AIM, a Bahamas-based broker-
dealer.  AIM  acted as  PIWM’s custodian.  At Battoo’s behest, AIM sent account statements and 
verification reports to investors and their agents.  Battoo exacerbated the PIWM investor losses 
by stealing investor funds to support his extr avagant lifestyle.   

       12.    On September 6, 2012, the Commission filed an emergency injunctive action in 
U.S. district court against Battoo and the entities he controlled.  The Commission’s complaint 
alleged violations of: Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”); Sections 
10(b) and 15(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b -5 thereunder; and Section 206(4) of the 
Investment Advisers Act  of 1940 (“Advisers Act”)  and Rule 206(4) -8 thereunder.  On September 

                                               4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

30, 2014, the district court entered a default judgment permanently enjoining Battoo and his BC 
Capital companies from violating Section 17(a) of the Securities Act; Sections 10(b) and 15(a) of 
the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder; and Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 
206(4)-8 thereunder.  The district court also ordered Battoo and his two BC Capital entities to 
pay disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and penalty, imposed jointly and severally, totaling 
$358,129,196.86.  

       13.    The Maven Entities collectively invested nearly $95 million with Battoo.  The 
Battoo investments represented approximately 78% of the Maven Entities  ’ assets.  From 2006 
until the Commission filed the SEC Battoo Lawsuit in September 2012, the Maven Entities 
believed that Battoo had their assets custodied at AIM.  In fact, the Maven Entities’ AIM 
accounts held a small fraction of the assets reported to the Maven Entities on their account 
statements.  

                                 Audits of the Maven Entities 

       14.    The Maven Entities hired independent auditors to perform annual audits of their 
financial statements.  Audit Firm A audited the Maven Entities’ 2006 financial statements, while 
Audit Firm B audited the Maven Entities’ 2007 and 2008 financial statements.  Audit Firm A 
issued a qualified opinion on Maven Assurance’s 2006 financial statements because the firm did 
not have the necessary information to perform valuation procedures on Maven Assurance’s 
investments in the PIWM program, which constituted approximately 60% of Maven Assurance’s 
assets.  Likewise, Audit Firm B, who conducted the 2007 and 2008 audits of the Maven Entities, 
issued qualified opinions for the 2007 and 2008 Maven Assurance audits due to its inability to 
obtain reliable audit evidence regarding the existence and valuation of the investments with Battoo. 

       15.    The Maven Entities decided to switch auditors yet again for the 2009 audit.  The 
Maven Entities retained Johnson Lambert to audit the Maven Entities’ 2009 financial statements.  

       16.    Diericx served as the engagement partner for the audits.  Diericx lacked 
experience dealing with issues that were prevalent in the audits.  Before Johnson Lambert 
accepted the engagement, Diericx emailed Johnson Lambert’s managing partner and a Johnson 
Lambert tax partner about the engagement.  In the email’s subject line, Diericx simply wrote 
“Help.”  He noted that Maven Assurance’s prior financials had “a qualified opinion and other 
problematic things.”  In the email, Diericx acknowledged that he had never dealt with valuations of 
foreign hedge funds or the “[r]amifications/tax risks on what this thing is.”  He asked for their 
opinion on whether Johnson Lambert should accept the engagement.  The managing partner 
responded, noting that the prior auditor’s qualified opinion was based on its inability to get audited 
financial statements for a hedge fund investment and audit evidence to support the existence and 
value of another investment.  The managing partner said that unless something has changed in 
available evidence, Johnson Lambert would have the same opinion issue.   

       17.    Johnson Lambert accepted the engagement.  It assigned Diericx  as engagement 
partner, despite his lack of experience dealing with the very issues that were the cause of the prior 
auditor’s qualified opinion – that is, the valuation of foreign hedge funds.  To  attempt to 
compensate for Diericx’s inexperience, Johnson Lambert’s partner responsible for quality control 
over accounting and auditing practice sent Diericx a link to the American Institute of Certified 

                                               5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

Public Accountants’ (“AICPA”) Practice Guide to Auditing Alternative Investments  4
                                                                                    and assigned 
engagement quality control reviewers that the firm believed had expertise in audits involving 
alternative investments.   

       18.    In fact, no one on the engagement team had experience dealing with thes e types of 
investments.  No one made the engagement   quality control reviewers aware of the engagement 
team’s lack of experience, the risks associated with the engagement, or the problems with the prior 
audits that led to reports with qualified opinions, nor did anyone instruct the engagement quality 
control reviewers to devote more effort to the review given the circumstances. 

       19.    Diericx completed both the 2009 and 2010 audit   s of the Maven Entities.  Johnson 
Lambert issued audit reports with unqualified opinions for each entity in both years.  The 2009 
and 2010 audit reports for Maven Assurance and Maven Life stated that Johnson Lambert 
audited the Maven Entities’ financial statements in accordance with GAAS   and expressed its 
opinion that the financial statements presented fairly, in all material respects, the financial 
position of the Maven Entities as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2010, in accordance 
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).  The  investments in  Battoo ’s 
alternative investment program constituted approximately 79% of the Maven Entities’ total 
assets according to their  2009 and 2010 financial statements. 

              Johnson Lambert’s and Diericx’s improper professional conduct 

       20.    Contrary to the representations in the audit reports, Johnson Lambert’s audits 
were not conducted in accordance with GAAS.  Johnson Lambert and Diericx deviated from 
GAAS in many critical respects that resulted in the issuance of audit reports with unqualified 
opinions that were not supported by sufficient appropriate audit evidence.    

Johnson Lambert and Diericx  failed to  exercise due professional care and to adequately staff the 
Maven Entity audits. 

       21.    GAAS require s auditors to exercise due professional care in the planning and 
performance of the audit and the preparation of the report.  AU §  230.01-02.5
                                                                               Auditors should 
be assigned to tasks and supervised commensurate with their level of knowledge, skill, and 
ability, so that they can evaluate the audit evidence they are examining.  The auditor with final 
responsibility for the engagement should know, at a minimum, the relevant professional 
accounting and auditing standards, and should be  knowledgeable about the client.  AU § 230.06.  
Auditors must have adequate technical training and proficiency to perform the audit, and the firm 
                                                           
4
       In 2006, the AICPA’s Alternative Investment Task Force developed and issued a practice 
aid for auditors titled “Alternative Investments – Audit Considerations” (“AICPA Alternative 
Investment Aid”).  As noted in the publication, the information in it “is intended to provide 
guidance to auditors” and “may help the auditor understand and apply the Statements on 
Auditing Standards .”  According to Johnson Lambert personnel, they considered this practice aid 
to be the best source of audit guidance on alternative investments.   
 
5
       Citations to “AU” are citations to Statements on Auditing Standards issued by the AICPA 
in effect at the time of the relevant conduct. 

                                                6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

should consider in accepting or continuing the client engagement whether it has sufficient 
personnel with the necessary capabilities and competence.  AU § 210.01;  QC § 10.31.  6
                                                                                         Auditors 
should consider whether special ized skills are needed to perform the audit and seek the 
assistance of a professional possessing such skills.  AU § 311.22. 

       22.     Diericx and Johnson Lambert   lacked an  understanding of applicable U.S. 
professional auditing standards for staffing and planning the Maven audits.  Johnson Lambert  
failed to staff the Maven Entities’ audits with audit  staff with adequate competence and 
experience to perform the audits, and otherwise failed to compensate for the audit staff’s lack of 
competence through other means.  Though alternative investments constituted most of the 
Maven Entities’ assets, Diericx lacked adequate professional training to audit the existence and 
value of such assets.    

       23.     The only steps Johnson Lambert  took to attempt to compensate for Diericx’s lack 
of competence and experience with alternative investments   was to provide Diericx with the 
AICPA Alternative Investment Aid and to appoint engagement quality control reviewers     with 
alternative investment experience.  However, the assigned reviewers were not members o   f the 
engagement team and, consistent with AICPA sta   ndards, they  did not participate in the planning 
or performance of the Maven Entities’ audit s or in the gathering of audit evidence.  QC § 10.94-
95; see also  QC §10.82 (“the engagement partner [is] responsible for the engagement and its 
performance, notwithstanding involvement of the engagement qualit   y control reviewer”).  In 
fact, Johnson Lambert’s policies and procedures prohibited the engagement quality control 
reviewer from participating in the performance of the engagement, and provided that significant 
consultation between the engagement team and the engagement quality control reviewer during 
the audit could necessitate assignment of a new engagement quality control reviewer.  Bec ause 
the engagement quality control reviewers had no substantive involvement in the Maven    Entities’  
audits, they did little to compensate for Diericx’s incompetence and inexperience.  Johnson 
Lambert did not take any steps to assess whether the engagement team was consulting with 
others with the necessary expertise, or to ensure that the engagement quality control reviewers 
devoted more effort to their review in light of Diericx’s lack of experience. 

Johnson Lambert and Diericx  failed to obtain sufficient appropriat e audit evidence to support its 
audit opinion on the Maven Entities’ financial statements. 

       24.     Auditors “must obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence by performing audit 
procedures to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the financial statements under 
audit.”  AU § 326.01.  Johnson Lambert and Diericx failed to plan and perform sufficient 
substantive audit procedures to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence of the existence and 
valuation of the Maven Entities’ investments with Battoo, and otherwise failed to properly evaluate 
the reliability of third-party information concerning those investments. 

       25.     Once an audit team identifies risks of material misstatement at the financial 
statement level, “the auditor should plan and perform substantive procedures to be responsive to 
the related assessment of the risk of material misstatement.”  AU § 318.50.  “The auditor should 
                                                           
6
       Citations to “QC” are citations to Statements on Quality Control Standards issued by the 
AICPA in effect at the time of the relevant conduct. 

                                                7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

design tests of details responsive to the assessed risk with the objective of obtaining sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence to achieve the planned level of assurance at the relevant assertion 
level.”  AU § 318.56.   

       26.     With respect to auditing investments in securities, auditors should use the 
assessed levels of inherent risk and control risk for assertions about the securities to determine 
the nature, timing, and extent of the substantive procedures to be performed to detect material 
misstatements of the financial statement assertions.  AU § 332.19.  Substantive procedures to test 
existence of securities may include confirmation with the issuer of the security, physical 
inspection of the security, and reading or inspecting underlying agreements or other forms of 
supporting documentation.  AU § 332.21.  Auditors    should also obtain evidence supporting 
management’s assertions about the fair value of securities measured or disclosed at fair value.  
AU § 332.35. 7
                When the valuation of inves tments in securities is based on fair value, the auditor 
should test the entity’s fair value measurements and disclosures, which may involve , among 
other things, testing management’s significant assumptions, the valuation model, and the 
underlying data, or developing independent fair value estimates for corroborative purposes .  AU 
§ 328.23.  “In circumstances in which the auditor determines that the nature and extent of 
auditing procedures should include verifying the existence and testing the measurement of 
investments in securities, simply receiving a confirmation from a third party, either in aggregate 
or on a security-by-security basis, does not in and of itself constitute adequate audit evidence 
with respect to the valuation assertion in section 332.”  AU § 9332.02.  Furthermore, receiving 
confirmation from a third party for investments in aggregate does not constitute adequate audit 
evidence with respect to the existence assertion.  Id. 

       27.     Johnson Lambert and Diericx identified certain risk s with respect to the existence 
and value of the Maven Entities’ investments even before they accepted the engagement.  They 
knew that the previous auditor’s inability to obtain audit evidence of the existence and value of 
the Maven Entities’ alternative investments resulted in the issuance of reports with qualified 
opinions.  Nevertheless, they accepted and completed the engagement   s without planning or 
performing sufficient substantive procedures to address the existence assertion and the valuation 
assertion regarding these investments.  

       28.     According to Maven Assurance’s financial statements and account statements     
provided by AIM and PIWM, Maven Assurance purportedly had more than $75 million invested 
in Battoo’s PIWM program during 2009 and 2010, or 78% of its total assets , which consisted 
primarily of hedge funds as well as other  “managed accounts” comprised of alternative 
investments.  Likewise, Maven Life purportedly had more than $5 million invested in PIWM ’s 
alternative investment strategies in 2009 and more than $10 million in 2010, representing more 
than 80% of its total assets.   

       29.     Although the investments in Battoo’s PIWM program constituted the majority of 
the Maven Entities’ assets, Johnson Lambert   and  Diericx never  attempted to contact the 
managers of the underlying hedge fund investments    in PIWM to confirm the Maven Entities’ 
                                                           
7
       Generally accepted accounting principles may require that a security be valued based on 
cost, the investee’s financial results, or fair value.  AU § 332.26.  The Maven Entities’ financial 
statements purported to present investments at fair value. 

                                                8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

interests in the funds or to assess the reasonableness of the valuations in the Maven Entities’ 
financial statements.  Instead, Johnson Lambert and Diericx took at face value confirmations 
received from AIM, the purported custodian of the assets, and PIWM, the investment program 
operated by Battoo.  They did so even though the confirmations provided little information about 
the specific investments purportedly owned by the Maven Entities.    

       30.    Had Johnson Lambert or  Diericx contacted  the hedge funds identified on the AI M 
account statements, they may have discovered that the Maven Entities’ investments in those 
hedge funds did not come close to matching  the investments reflected on the AIM account 
statements.  Indeed, in most cases, the Maven Entities did not own any interest in the hedge 
funds listed on the AIM account statements.  

       31.    The AIM account statements and audit    confirmations  contained  virtually no  
information about the purported investments held  by the Maven Entities in “managed accounts.”  
The confirmations merely identified the name and purported strategy of the account  (e.g., 
“Alliance – PIWM  -I: Multi-Strategy Managed Futures & Commodities”), and the dollar value of  
each managed account.  Johnson Lambert    did not  attempt to determine what the underlying 
investments were that constituted the managed accounts or the value of those investments .  The 
AIM confirmations also included date discrepancies on their face (one AIM portfolio 
confirmation for December 31, 2010 stated that it was “as of 2/9/2010” with “12/31/2010 
prices”), which no one at Johnson Lambert  recognized during the audit s. 

       32.    Rather than perform any additional substant ive testing of the existence and value 
of the Maven Entities’ purported investments listed in the AIM audit confirmations, Johnson 
Lambert and  Diericx relied on representations by Julian Brown, AIM’s P resident, regarding the 
existence and value of the investments.  They did so even though Brown acknowledged that AIM 
did not monitor net asset values of the investments and directed Johnson Lambert to contact 
advisors, sub-custodians, and fund managers with specific questions relating to the 
confirmations.  Johnson Lambert  and  Diericx failed to acknowledge or follow -up on these red 
flags. 

       33.    The failure to perform adequate substantive audit procedures to test the existence 
and value of the majority of the Maven Entities’ assets was particularly problematic in light of 
Johnson Lambert’s and Diericx’s identification of internal control weaknesses in this area.  
Management is responsible for making the fair value measurements and disclosures included in 
the financial statements, which includes establishing an accounting and financial reporting 
process for determining the fair value measurements and disclosures , selecting appropriate 
valuation methods, identifying and adequately supporting any significant assumptions used, 
preparing the valuation, and ensuring that the presentation and disclosure of the fair value 
measurements are in accordance with GAAP.  AU  § 328.04.  In November, 2010, Johnson 
Lambert issued a letter to the Maven Entities’ Board of Directors, which identified “significant 
deficiencies” in the Maven Entities’ internal controls relating to their investments.  Johnson 
Lambert noted that the Maven Entities did not have a process in place to independently evaluate 
the fair value measurement procedures performed by its fund managers.  Yet the auditors  still 
failed to design substantive procedures to test the valuations of the investments provided by third 
parties or the assumptions underlying those valuations.  AU §§ 332.19, 35, 38-39, 41, 43.  
Johnson Lambert and Diericx relied entirely on valuations provided by PIWM and AIM without 

                                               9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

any support for how those valuations were being calculated and without any information from 
underlying hedge fund managers.   

Johnson Lambert and Diericx  failed to exercise professional skepti cism by overlooking “red-
flags.” 

       34.    Due professional care requires an auditor to exercise professional skepticism, 
which “includes a questioning mind and a  critical assessment of audit evidence.”  AU § 230.07.  
In addition, the auditor should “consider the competency and sufficiency of the evidence.  Since 
evidence is gathered and evaluated throughout the audit, professional skepticism should be 
exercised throughout the audit process.”  AU § 230.08.  Auditors should also place emphasis on 
testing material transactions with parties he/she knows are related to the reporting entity.  AU § 
334.07. 

       35.    Johnson Lambert and Diericx failed to exercise such skepticism.  They overlooked 
red flags and other warning s in the course of the Maven audits.  For example, t he audit 
confirmations Johnson Lambert   and Diericx sent to PIWM and AIM (the only  procedure around 
the existence and valuation assertions performed by Johnson Lambert  and  Diericx) were 
addressed to the same P.O. Box in Nassau, Bahamas.  Yet Johnson Lambert and Diericx 
accepted the confirmation results without question at face value and without performing any 
additional procedures related to the information contained in those confirmations.  See AU § 
330.27 (in the confirmation process, “[i]f information about the respondent's . . . objectivity and 
freedom from bias with respect to the audited entity comes to the auditor's attention, the auditor 
should consider the effects of such information on . . . evaluating the results, including 
determining whether other procedures are necessary;” where respondent is custodian of material 
amount of audited entity’s assets, auditor should exercise heightened degree of professional 
skepticism); AU § 330.04 (confirmation process should include “ [e]valuating the information … 
provided by the third party … including the reliability of that information.”). 

       36.    Johnson Lambert’s internal workpapers disclosed that the custodian of the Maven 
Entities’ investments was BC Hong Kong (not AIM), which was controlled by Battoo, and that 
BC Hong Kong used AIM as a “sub-custodian.”  BC Hong Kong and BC Panama were 
controlled by Battoo and closely related to AIM through Julian Brown, President of AIM, who 
was on the Executive Board of BC Panama.   Further, the workpapers reflected that until May 
2009, Maven and BC Hong Kong shared a common director.  These related party relationships 
necessitated heightened professional skepticism and scrutiny by Johnson Lambert and Diericx.  
In fact, Johnson Lambert and Diericx ignored these issues.   

       37.    There were numerous other factors that should have caused Johnson Lambert and 
Diericx to conduct their audits with a heightened degree of professional skepticism and consider 
whether additional procedures or audit evidence was required, including: 

              a.      The Maven Entities’ prior auditor told Diericx that it had issued reports 
                      with qualified opinions, in part, because it was unable to obtain adequate 
                      audit evidence of the existence of or the valuation of the Maven Entities’ 
                      managed accounts allegedly held at AIM.   

                                              10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

               b.     The Maven Entities had no process in place to independently evaluate the 
                      fair value measurement procedures performed by the funds purportedly 
                      holding their assets. 

               c.      The account statements Johnson Lambert received from AIM, the 
                      purported custodian of the Maven Entities’ investments, contained “as of” 
                      dates that did not match the year end date (                        e.g., for the 2010 audit, AIM 
                      sent Johnson Lambert statements for “12/31/2010 prices” but which were 
                      “as of 2/9/2010”).  Johnson Lambert and Diericx made no additional 
                      inquiries regarding the “as of” date discrepancies on the AIM account 
                      statements. 

E.     FINDINGS 

       38.     Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Johnson Lambert and Diericx 
engaged in improper professional conduct pursuant to Section 4C  (a)(2) of the Exchange Act and 
Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 8
                                                             
        
F.     UNDERTAKINGS 
        
       39.     Review of Written Policies and Procedures.  Johnson Lambert shall, within sixty 
(60) days after the entry of this Order, evaluate its existing written policies and procedures and 
shall make such revisions as may be necessary in order to adopt, implement, and enforce written 
policies and procedures to provide reasonable assurance that Johnson Lambert’s audits are 
conducted in compliance with  (a)  the relevant Commission regulations and  (b) audit and attest 
standards relevant to appearing and practicing before the Commission.  Johnson Lambert shall 
review and revise as necessary its written policies and procedures in the following areas:  (i) client 
and engagement acceptance; (ii) the staffing of engagements; (iii) contact with and requests for 
information from  prior auditors; (iv) performing proper risk assessment; (v) obtaining sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence relating to investments in securities ; (vi) testing for valuation and 
existence of investments in securities; (vii) auditing of alternative investments; (viii) third -party 
confirmations; (ix) work paper review and signoff by engagement quality control reviewers; and 
(x) related-party transactions and relationships.  
        
       40.     Retention of an Independent Consultant.  Johnson Lambert  shall retain, within sixty 
(60) days after the entry of this Order, an independent consultant (“Independent Consultant”), not 
unacceptable to the Commission staff.  Johnson Lambert will require the  Independent Consultant 
to review and evaluate the audit and interim review policies and procedures of Johnson Lambert   
regarding (i) client and engagement acceptance; (ii) the staffing of engagements; (iii) contact 
                                                           
8
       Section 4C(b) and Rule 102(e)(1)(iv) define improper professional conduct with respect 
to persons licensed to practice as accountants.  Pursuant to these provisions, “improper 
professional conduct” includes two types of negligent conduct:  (1) a single instance of highly 
unreasonable conduct that results in a violation of professional standards in circumstances where 
heightened scrutiny is warranted; or (2) repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each 
resulting in violations of professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence. 

                                               11 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

with and requests for information from prior auditors; (iv) performing proper risk assessment; (v) 
obtaining sufficient appropriate audit evidence relating to investments in securities ; (vi) testing 
for valuation and existence of investments in securities; (vii) auditing of alternative investments; 
(viii) third-party confirmations; (ix) work paper review and signoff by engagement quality 
control reviewers; and (x) related-party transactions and relationships.  Johnson Lambert will 
require that the Independent Consultant’s review and evaluation assess the foregoing areas to 
determine whether Johnson Lambert   ’s policies and procedures are adequate and sufficient to 
ensure compliance with (a) the relevant Commission regulations and (b) audit and attest 
standards relevant to appearing and practicing before the Commission.  Johnson Lambert   will 
cooperate fully with the Independent Consultant and will provide reasonable access to firm 
personnel, information, and records as the Independent Consultant may reasonably request for 
the Independent Consultant’s reviews and evaluations.  Johnson Lambert will provide the 
Commission staff a copy of the engagement letter detailing the scope of the Independent 
Consultant’s responsibilities. 
        
       41.    Within ninety  (90) days of being retained,  Johnson Lambert will require the 
Independent Consultant to issue a report (“Report”) to Johnson Lambert : (a) summarizing the 
Independent Consultant’s review and evaluation; and (b) making recommendations, where 
appropriate, reasonably designed to ensure that audits conducted by Johnson Lambert  com ply 
with Commission regulations and relevant audit and attest standards.  At Johnson Lambert’s 
direction, the Independent Consultant will provide a copy of the Report to the Commission staff 
when the Report is issued. 
        
       42.    Johnson Lambert will adopt, as soon as practicable, the recommendations of the 
Independent Consultant in the Report.  Provided, however, that within thirty (30) days of issuance 
of the Report, Johnson Lambert  may advise the  Independent Consultant in writing of any 
recommendation that it considers to be unnecessary, unduly burdensome, or impractical.  
Johnson Lambert need not adopt any such recommendation at that time, but instead may propose 
in writing to the Independent Consultant and the Commiss ion staff an alternative policy or 
procedure designed to achieve the same objective or purpose.  Johnson Lambert   and the 
Independent Consultant will engage in good-faith negotiations in an effort to reach agreement on 
any recommendations objected to by Johnson Lambert    . 
        
       43.    In the event that the Independent Consultant and Johnson Lambert   are unable to 
agree on an alternative proposal within thirty (30) days, Johnson Lambert will abide b y the 
determinations of the Independent Consultant. 
        
       44.    Within sixty (60) days of issuance of the Report, Johnson Lambert  will certify to 
the Staff in writing that it has adopted and has implemented or will implement all 
recommendations of the Independent Consultant (“Certification of Compliance”) .   
        
       45.    Johnson Lambert will require  the Independent Consultant to enter into an 
agreement that provides that for the period of engagement and for a period of two years from 
completion of the engagement, the Independent Consultant shall not enter into any employment, 
consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with Johnson Lambert, or 
any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their 

                                               12 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

capacity.  The agreement will also provide that the Independent Consultant will require that any 
firm with which he/she is affiliated or of which he/she is a member, and any person engaged to 
assist the Independent Consultant in performance of his/her duties under this Order shall not, 
without prior written consent of the Commission’s Ch  icago Regional Office, enter into any 
employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with Johnson 
Lambert, or any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting 
in their capacity as such for the period of the engagement and for a period of two years after the 
engagement. 
        
       46.     Johnson Lambert’s Acceptance of New Public Company Audit Clients.  Johns on 
Lambert shall not accept engagements for new clients for public company audits prior to the later 
of one (1) year from the date of entry of this Order, or the date of issuance of the Certification of 
Compliance.  A public company audit is defined as an engagement to audit the financial statements 
of an “issuer” as that term is defined in Section 2(a)(7) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  In 
addition, Johnson Lambert shall not accept audit engagements for new clients pursuant to the 
Exchange Act, the Securities Act, the Advisers Act, or the Investment Company Act of 1940, prior 
to the later of one (1) year from the date of entry of this Order, or the date of issuance of the 
Certification of Compliance. 
        
       47.     Training and Professional Development.  Johnson Lambert  shall establish, 
implement, and enforce policies and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurances that 
Johnson Lambert’s professionals participate in professional development activities in accordance 
with firm guidelines, in subjects that are relevant to their responsibilities, and will contribute to 
their technical training and proficiency as auditor s.  Johnson Lambert  shall require each audit 
professional to undergo a minimum of eight (8) hours of audit-related training on topics 
including, but not limited to: (i) exercising due professional care and professional skepticism; (ii) 
evaluating third party confirmations involving investments in securities ; (iii) audit planning, 
including but not limited to the staffing of engagements, contact with and requests for 
information from prior auditors, and performing proper risk assessment; (iv) obtaining sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence; (v) auditing of alternative investments; (vi) related party transactions 
and relationships; and (vii) adequate audit documentation relating to the above. 
        
       48.     Certification of Compliance.  Johnson Lambert shall certify , in writing, 
compliance with the undertakings set forth above.  The certification shall identify the 
undertakings, provide written evidence of compliance in the form of a narrative, and be 
supported by exhibits sufficient to demonstrate compliance.  The Commission staff may make 
reasonable requests for further evidence of compliance, and Respondent agrees to provide such 
evidence.  The certification and supporting material shall be submitted to Jeffrey A. Shank, 
Assistant Regional Director, Chicago Regional Office, 175 W. Jackson Boulevard, Suite 900, 
Chicago, IL 60604, with a copy to the Office of Chief Counsel of the Enforcement Division, 100 
F Street, N.E., Washington DC 20549, no later than sixty (60) days from the date of the 
completion of the undertaking(s).   
        
       49.     Cooperation with the Commission’s Investigation and Related Litigation .  Johnson 
Lambert (including its partners, principals, officers, agents, and employees) and Diericx shall 
cooperate fully with the Commission in any and all investigations, litigations, administrative and 

                                               13 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

other proceedings commenced by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party relating 
to or arising from the matters described in this Order.  In connection with such investigation, 
litigation, administrative or other proceedings, Respondents agree to the following: (i) to produce, 
without service of a notice or subpoena, any and all documents and other materials and information 
as requested by the Commission; (ii) to appear and testify without service of a notice or subpoena 
in such investigations, interviews, depositions, hearings, and trials, at such times and places as 
reasonably requested by the Commission; and (iii) to respond promptly to all inquiries from the 
Commission.  The foregoing obligations are subject to Johnson Lambert’s and Diericx’s rights:  (i) 
to claim that documents or information requested is subject to attorney-client privilege or attorney 
work product protection; and (ii) to seek entry of a confidentiality order as to (aa) sensitive 
business documents or information, (bb) sensitive personnel documents or information, or (cc) 
confidential information pertaining to clients other than the Maven Entities. 

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Johnson Lambert’s and  Diericx’s Offer.  

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:    

       A.     Johnson Lambert is hereby censured. 

       B.     Johnson Lambert shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in Section III, 
              paragraphs 39 to 49 above  . 

       C.     Diericx is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
              an accountant. 

       D.     After three years from the date of this order, Diericx may request that the 
              Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: 
              Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the 
              Commission as: 

              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
                      review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with 
                      the Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                      Respondent’s work in his/her practice before the Commission will be 
                      reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
                      for which he/she works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as 
                      he/she practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 

              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
                      Commission that: 

                      (a)     Diericx, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, 
                             is registered with the PCAOB   in accordance with the Sarbanes-
                             Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                                               14 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

                      (b)    Diericx, or the registered public a ccounting firm with which he is 
                             associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB    and that inspection 
                             did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the 
                             respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
                             indicate that the respondent will not receive appropriate 
                             supervision; 

                      (c)     Diericx has resolved all disciplinary issues with the PCAOB, and 
                             has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions 
                             imposed by the PCAOB     (other than reinstatement by the 
                             Commission); and 

                      (d)    Diericx acknowledges his  responsibility, as long as Diericx appears 
                             or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, 
                             to comply with all requirements of the Commission and the 
                             PCAOB, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to 
                             registration, inspections, engagement quality control reviewer 
                             procedures and quality control standards.    

       E.     The Commission will consider an application by Diericx to resume appearing or 
              practicing before the Commission provided that his   state C PA license is current 
              and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
              accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
              Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  
              The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters 
              referenced above, any other matters relating to Diericx’s character, integrity, 
              professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
              Commission. 

 
       By the Commission. 

 
 

                                                            Brent J. Fields 
                                                            Secretary 

                                               15 
