---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                              
 
                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 71951 / April 15, 2014 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3550 / April 15, 2014 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-13737  

                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Scott T. Veech, CPA  
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                          
        

       On January 6, 2010, Scott T. Veech, CPA (“Veech”) was suspended from   appearing or 
practicing before the Commission as an accountant as a result of settled public administrative 
proceedings instituted by the Commission against Veech pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the 
Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                 This order is issued in response to Veech’s application for 
reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant responsible for the 
preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed with the Commission. 

       The Commission found that Veech participated in a fraudulent scheme which resulted in 
Merge Healthcare Inc. (“Merge”) filing materially false and misleading financial statements in the 
company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2002, December 31, 
2003 and December 31, 2004, and in the company’s quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the first 
three quarters of fiscal year 2005.  While serving as Merge’s Chief Financial Officer, Veech engaged 
in improper accounting practices that materially increased the company’s annual and quarterly 
revenue in a material departure from generally accepted accounting principles.  These practices 
included, among other things, causing Merge to recognize revenue improperly on transactions in 
which Merge promised specified future software enhancements to customers.  As a result, Veech 
violated Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 and Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the 
Securities Exchange Act (“Exchange Act”) and Rules 10b- 5, 13a-14, 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 
thereunder, and he aided and abetted violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) 
of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder  . 

                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 3096 dated January 6, 2010.  Veech was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after three years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                    

 
       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Veech 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Veech is not, at this time, seeking to appear 
or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to appear 
and practice before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be required to submit 
an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will comply with the terms 
of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Veech’s suspension from practice 
before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in effect until the Commission 
determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard  in accordance with the terms of 
the original suspension order. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    2
                                                             This “good caus e” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Veech , it appears that he has complied with the terms of the January 6, 2010 order suspending   
him from  appearin g or practicing  before the Commission as an accountant, that no information 
has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, professional 
conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis for adverse 
action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, and that 
Veech, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of any 
company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in his 
practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly,  
 
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Scott T. Veech, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                              
                                              
                                             Jill M. Peterson 
                                             Assistant Secretary   
                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be affor ded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R . § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
 

                                                 2 
