---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                               
                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 72005 / April 23, 2014 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3551 / April 23, 2014 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-14044 

                           
                           : 
                           : 
In the Matter of              ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           : 
                              REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
                           : 
Anthony J. Price, CPA         BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           : 
                           : 
                           
        
       On September 13, 2010, Anthony J. Price, CPA (“Price”) was denied the privilege of 
appearing or practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against Price pursuant to Section 4C of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the 
                               1
Commission's Rules of Practice.   This order is issued in response to Price’s application for 
reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant. 
        
       Price was found to have engaged in improper professional conduct with respect to his 
role on KMJ Corbin & Company LLP’s (“KMJ”) audits and reviews of Home Solutions of 
America, Inc.’s financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004 through the quarter 
ended June 30, 2007.  The Commission found that, during the relevant period, Price’s actions 
during the engagements were unreasonable and failed to conform to applicable professional 
standards. Price failed to (i) obtain sufficient competent evidential matter regarding bonuses, 
revenues, and cost of revenues with respect to KMJ’s 2004, 2005, and 2006 audit engagements; 
(ii) comply with PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 3, Audit Documentation; (iii) adequately plan 
the audit and properly supervise assistants in connection with the 2006 engagement; and (iv) 
conduct reviews of interim financial information in accordance with PCAOB standards and 
rules. 
        
        

                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 3185 dated September 13, 2010.  Price was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after two years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

       Price has met all of the conditions set forth in the original order and, in his capacity as an 
independent accountant, has stated that he will comply with all requirements of the Commission 
and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, including, but not limited to all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.  In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the 
preparation or review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the 
Commission, Price attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent 
audit committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, while practicing before the Commission in this capacity.   
        
       Price is currently subject to probation under the California Board of Accountancy that is 
scheduled to end in March 2016. Failure to abide by the terms of his probation could result in the 
revocation of Price’s CPA license pending notice and an opportunity to be heard by the 
California Board of Accountancy. Price has attested that he will notify the Commission if he is 
found to have violated the terms of the probation. He also has attested that he understands that 
the revocation of his CPA license could result in the revocation of his reinstatement to appear 
and practice before the Commission as an accountant. 
        
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
                                                          2
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”   This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
        On the basis of the information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed 
to by Price, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the September 13, 2010 order 
denying him the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, 
that no information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, 
integrity, professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be 
a basis for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of 
Practice, and that Price, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit 
committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, in his practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial 
statements required to be filed with the Commission, and that Price, by undertaking to comply 
with all requirements of the Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, 
including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring 
partner reviews and quality control standards, in his practice before the Commission as an 
independent accountant has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Anthony J. Price, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
        
       By the Commission. 
                                             
                                                           
                                                           
                                                          Jill M. Peterson  
                                                          Assistant Secretary  
 
