---------------------Page 1---------------------

       

                                 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                            Before the 
                         SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

      SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
      Release No. 79828 / January 18, 2017  

      ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
      Release No. 3851 / January 18, 2017 

      ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
      File No. 3-17800 

                                                ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
                                               DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
      In the Matter of 
                                               SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                               EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING 
      Orthofix International N.V. 
                                               FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL 
      Respondent.                              SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-AND-DESIST 
                                               ORDER 

       

                                                 I. 

             The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
      cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the 
      Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Orthofix International N.V. 
      (“Orthofix” or “Respondent”). 

                                                II. 

             In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
      of Settlement (“Offer”) that the Commission has determined to accept.  Respondent admits the 
      facts set forth in Paragraphs 1 through 20 below, acknowledges that its conduct violated the 
      federal securities laws, admits the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of 
      these proceedings, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist 
      Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, 
      and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.    

                                  

 

 

       
---------------------Page 2---------------------

        

                                                      III. 

                                                                                         1
                                                                                          
               On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 

                                                 SUMMARY 

               This matter concerns violations of the books and records and internal controls provisions 
       of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (“FCPA”) by Orthofix International N.V., a 
       medical device company organized under the laws of Curacao and headquartered in Lewisville, 
       Texas, and its Brazilian subsidiary, Orthofix do Brasil LTDA.  From at least 2011 to 2013 
       (hereinafter “the relevant period”), senior personnel at Orthofix Brazil employed at least four 
       schemes, with third-party commercial representatives and distributors, to make improper 
       payments to doctors employed at government-owned hospitals to induce them to use Orthofix’s 
       products, thereby increasing sales.  The improper payments to doctors employed at government 
       hospitals were improperly recorded as legitimate expenses and generated illicit profits to 
       Orthofix of approximately $2,928,000.   

               Orthofix also failed to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls 
       sufficient to provide reasonable assurances to detect and prevent such payments by Orthofix 
       Brazil, despite the fact that Orthofix had been charged by the Commission in 2012 with violating 
       the books and records and internal controls provisions of the FCPA in connection with bribes 
       paid to Mexican officials by its Mexican subsidiary.   

               By engaging in the foregoing conduct, Orthofix violated the books and records and 
       internal controls provisions of the federal securities laws set forth in Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 
       13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. 

                                                RESPONDENT 

               Orthofix International N.V. (“Orthofix,” “Respondent,” or “Company”) is a limited 
       liability company formed under the laws of Curacao and headquartered in Lewisville, Texas.  It 
       is a diversified medical device company that develops and sells surgical and non-surgical 
       medical products to medical professionals in various market sectors, including orthopedics.  It 
       distributes its products both domestically in the United States and internationally in multiple 
       countries.  Orthofix’s common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) 
       of the Exchange Act and currently trades on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol 
       “OFIX.”   

                                                        

       1
         
              The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer and are not binding on any other person or 
                                        
       entity in this or any other proceeding.

                                                        2 
 

 

        
---------------------Page 3---------------------

        

               

                                           RELEVANT ENTITY 

                Orthofix do Brasil LTDA (“Orthofix Brazil”) is a wholly-owned subsidiary of 
       Orthofix headquartered in Sao Paulo, Brazil.  Orthofix Brazil markets and sells extremity 
       fixation products through direct and indirect sales to public and private sector customers.  From 
       2011 to 2013, approximately 12.5 % of Orthofix Brazil’s sales were made to public sector 
       customers, such as government-owned hospitals and associated doctors, and the remaining 
       87.5% to private customers, including non-government-owned hospitals and associated doctors.  
       Orthofix consolidated Orthofix Brazil’s financial statements into its financials. 

                                                   FACTS 

       A.     Prior Commission Enforcement Action Against Orthofix 

              1.     In 2012, the Commission filed a settled civil injunctive action in United States 
       District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging that Orthofix had violated the books and 
       records and internal controls provisions of the FCPA through its Mexican subsidiary, Promeca 
       S.A. de C.V. (“Promeca”).  From at least 2003 to 2010, Promeca made improper payments 
       totaling approximately $317,000 to employees of a government agency in Mexico.  These 
       improper payments, recorded as training and promotional expenses, generated illicit net profits to 
       Orthofix of approximately $4.9 million. 

              2.     Orthofix settled the matter by consenting to the entry of a final judgment that (i) 
       enjoined the company from violating Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, 
       (ii) ordered Orthofix to pay disgorgement and prejudgment interest of approximately $5.2 
       million, and (iii) ordered Orthofix to undertake certain remedial measures concerning its FCPA 
       compliance program, including self-reporting to the staff for a two-year term regarding its 
       remediation efforts.  In a parallel criminal investigation, Orthofix entered into a deferred-
       prosecution agreement in which it admitted, accepted, and acknowledged responsibility for 
       specific conduct related to Promeca’s operations in Mexico, and paid a $ 2,220,000 criminal fine.     

       B.     Background 

              3.     During the relevant period, Orthofix Brazil accounted for approximately 5-7% of 
       Orthofix’s consolidated net sales.  During the relevant period, Orthofix Brazil sold its products 
       through either (i) direct sales to a customer through third-party commercial representative 
       entities who provide assistance and receive a commission, or (ii) indirect sales through a third-
       party distributor that purchased the products from Orthofix Brazil, held the inventory, and resold 
       them to an end customer.   

              4.     During the relevant period, Orthofix Brazil engaged in direct sales with the 
       assistance of third-party commercial representatives who helped to market and sell its products 
       in Brazil.  These commercial representatives also employed sales agents to make sales.  
       Commercial representative sales comprised approximately two-thirds of the sales of the 
                                                       3 
 

 

        
---------------------Page 4---------------------

        

       subsidiary.  In addition, Orthofix Brazil engaged sixteen distributors to conduct indirect sales.  
       Orthofix Brazil sold its products to the distributors who in turn resold the products to health care 
       providers, including private and government-owned hospitals, in various regions in Brazil.  
       Indirect sales through distributors comprised about one-third of the sales of the subsidiary.  

              5.     Orthofix provided budgets, financial targets, and guidance to Orthofix Brazil and 
       approved certain actions and expenditures.  Orthofix also received regular updates from Orthofix 
       Brazil on many details regarding sales opportunities, numbers, and business developments.  
       Orthofix set internal sales targets and management imposed pressure on subsidiaries to meet 
       those targets.  Orthofix’s reporting structure and relationship with its subsidiaries was 
       decentralized during the relevant time period, complicating parent oversight, compliance 
       monitoring, and communication with U.S. executives.  Orthofix lacked adequate training, 
       policies, processes, and corporate culture that would have allowed employees at its subsidiaries 
       to raise compliance concerns to the parent level. 

       C.     Orthofix Brazil Made Improper Payments to Doctors Through Commercial 
              Representatives 

              6.     During the relevant period, Orthofix Brazil entered into agreements with third-
       party commercial representatives to directly sell its products to hospitals and doctors in Brazil, 
       and it paid commissions to those commercial representatives as part of such agreements.  
       Orthofix Brazil’s commercial representatives in turn made improper payments to certain doctors 
       at government owned hospitals in exchange for sales contracts.   

              7.     The scheme involving commercial representatives worked in one of two ways.  In 
       the first scenario, commercial representatives made arrangements to pay doctors a specific 
       amount, usually constituting 20-25% of the sales price, in exchange for using Orthofix products.  
       After doctors performed a procedure using Orthofix’s products, Orthofix Brazil typically billed 
       the hospital for the products used.  Orthofix Brazil then paid a commission of approximately 33-
       43% of the sales price to the commercial representative responsible for the sale, who then used a 
       portion of that commission to make certain agreed upon payments to doctors.   

              8.     In the second scenario, a company related to the commercial representative sent 
       Orthofix Brazil false invoices for services such as marketing that were never provided.  The 
       former general manager of Orthofix Brazil approved these payments and the former finance 
       director of Orthofix Brazil instructed Orthofix Brazil employees to classify the payments as 
       “administrative expenses.”  The services were never rendered and the payments were not 
       administrative expenses but rather provided funds that were intended to be used to make 
       improper payments to certain doctors.  The payments were intentionally improperly recorded as 
       legitimate expenses to hide the true nature of the payments. 

              9.     Certain Orthofix Brazil employees knew that commercial representatives were 
       paying doctors and were involved in the schemes.  The former general manager was responsible 
       for negotiating the arrangements with the commercial representatives, and he instructed the 
       former finance director and other lower level Orthofix Brazil employees to make the commission 

                                                       4 
 

 

        
---------------------Page 5---------------------

        

       payments to commercial representatives.  Payments to commercial representatives were referred 
       to by these employees as “doctors’ commissions.” Orthofix Brazil employees and commercial 
       representatives openly discussed payment percentages, total amounts, and payment instructions 
       for making direct deposits or in-person payments to doctors. 

       D.     Orthofix Brazil Made Improper Payments to Doctors Through Distributors 
               
              10.    Similar to the schemes involving commercial representatives, Orthofix Brazil 
       used third-party distributors in two ways to make improper payments to doctors.  In the first 
       scenario, Orthofix Brazil provided a high discount ranging in certain instances of up to 70% to 
       the distributors, who then used part of the profit generated by that discount to make improper 
       payments to certain doctors.  The high discounts were purportedly meant to allow distributors to 
       make a sufficient profit while also covering their overhead costs.  In reality, part of the discount 
       was often used to make the improper payments to certain doctors at public hospitals.  Employees 
       of the distributors openly discussed the improper payment scheme in emails to certain Orthofix 
       Brazil employees.  For example, in 2011, one distributor emailed an Orthofix Brazil employee 
       that “[t]he agreement with the physicians is to make the payment after using the material,” 
       indicating a promise to pay doctors after they used Orthofix products.  The four distributors that 
       made improper payments to doctors on behalf of Orthofix Brazil openly discussed the improper 
       payments in person with certain Orthofix Brazil employees and demanded higher discounts from 
       the company to facilitate the payments. 

              11.    In the second scenario involving distributors, Orthofix Brazil made payments for 
       services that were never rendered.  These payments were inaccurately described in the 
       company’s books and records as “consulting for sales” payments made to a company related to 
       one of the distributors, when, in fact, the payments to the distributor were made to facilitate 
       improper payments to doctors. 

              12.    The general manager, finance director, and certain other Orthofix Brazil 
       employees no longer associated with Orthofix Brazil knew that distributors were using excessive 
       discounts and making payments on false invoices to pay doctors.  Nevertheless, Orthofix Brazil 
       improperly recorded the payments as legitimate business expenses to hide the true nature of the 
       payments.    

       E.     Orthofix Failed to Maintain Accurate Books and Records 
                       
              13.    Orthofix Brazil improperly recorded certain payments to commercial 
       representatives and discounts to third-party distributors, portions of which were used to make 
       improper payments to doctors, as commissions, discounts, consulting fees, administrative 
       expenses, and other legitimate business expenses in its books and records that were subsequently 
       consolidated into Orthofix’s books and records, rendering them inaccurate. 

       F.     Orthofix Lacked Adequate Internal Accounting Controls 
                       

                                                       5 
 

 

        
---------------------Page 6---------------------

        

               14.    Orthofix failed in a timely manner to devise and maintain an adequate system of 
       internal accounting controls in Brazil, even after the company had been charged previously for 
       internal controls failings in the Commission’s earlier case against it for improper payments in 
       Mexico.  The controls in place during the relevant period were minimal and clearly deficient. 

               15.    The internal accounting controls were deficient with respect to the setting, 
       approval, and payment of commissions and discounts.  Orthofix had no policies or processes in 
       place to standardize or centrally approve and monitor the commissions and discounts that 
       Orthofix Brazil was providing to third parties, which allowed Orthofix Brazil to push through 
       high commissions and discounts that ultimately were used to facilitate improper payments.  The 
       decentralized nature of Orthofix’s business in Brazil allowed Orthofix Brazil to easily evade the 
       policies and controls that Orthofix did have in place when the conduct occurred.  An indirect 
       reporting structure created gaps in supervision that provided the opportunity to orchestrate and 
       execute the bribery schemes without detection.   

               16.    Furthermore, a lack of centralized global accounting and payment controls 
       allowed Orthofix Brazil to record the improper payments as legitimate business expenses.  Given 
       the prior corruption and internal controls issues at its Mexican subsidiary, Orthofix was aware of 
       deficiencies in its controls and the FCPA risks at its subsidiaries’ operations.  Despite these red 
       flags, Orthofix failed to establish better controls and supervision over its subsidiaries in high risk 
       countries.   

                               COOPERATION AND REMEDIAL ACTION  

               17.    Orthofix disclosed the Brazil allegations as part of its ongoing self-reporting 
       obligations undertaken as part of its earlier settlement with the Commission for its conduct 
       related to Mexico discussed above.  Orthofix cooperated with the investigation by, among other 
       things:  (i) conducting a thorough and timely internal investigation; (ii) voluntarily producing 
       documents and other information in a timely manner, identifying significant documents and 
       translating documents from Portuguese; (iii) compiling financial data and analysis; (iv) providing 
       detailed witness interview downloads, Power-Point presentations summarizing its findings, and 
       timelines; and (v) assisting us in our efforts to coordinate witness interviews with current and 
       former Orthofix and Orthofix Brazil employees. 

               18.    Although the Company took remedial steps following the resolution of the 
       Promeca allegations in 2012, Orthofix did not start fully implementing sufficient remedial steps 
       until after the discovery of the Brazil conduct in late 2013.  Though delayed, these efforts have 
       been significant.  Orthofix and Orthofix Brazil now have terminated problematic representatives 
       and distributors; developed and implemented new global accounting policies to provide further 
       structure and guidance to foreign subsidiaries; established an internal audit function and 
       expanded Orthofix’s compliance department; conducted extensive audits of third-party vendors 
       used by subsidiaries; and revised existing trainings and implemented additional compliance 
       training for employees. 

                                                       6 
 

 

        
---------------------Page 7---------------------

        

                                LEGAL STANDARDS AND VIOLATIONS 

              19.    As a result of the conduct described above, Orthofix violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) 
       of the Exchange Act, which requires issuers to make and keep books, records, and accounts 
       which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their transactions and dispositions of the 
       assets of the issuer. 

              20.    In addition, as a result of the conduct described above, Orthofix violated Section 
       13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, which requires issuers to devise and maintain a system of 
       internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (i) transactions are 
       executed in accordance with management’s general or specific authorization; (ii) transactions are 
       recorded as necessary (I) to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with 
       generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such statements, and 
       (II) to maintain accountability for assets; (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance 
       with management’s general or specific authorization; and (iv) the recorded accountability for 
       assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken 
       with respect to any differences.  

                                                     IV. 

              In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
       agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 

              Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 

              A.     Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent cease and desist from 
       committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 
       13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(b)(2)(A) and 78m(b)(2)(B)]. 

              B.     Respondent shall, within thirty days of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement 
       of $2,928,000, prejudgment interest of $263,375, and a civil money penalty in the amount of 
       $2,928,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  If timely payment is not made, 
       additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717.  Payment must be made in one of 
       the following three ways: 

                      1.  Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                         will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request; 

                      2.  Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                         through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofin.htm; or 

                      3.  Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                         States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                         Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to: 

                                                       7 
 

 

        
---------------------Page 8---------------------

        

                          Enterprise Services Center 
                          Accounts Receivable Branch 
                          HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                          6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                          Oklahoma City, OK 73169 

              Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
       Orthofix as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy 
       of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Kara N. Brockmeyer, Division of 
       Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-
       5720. 

              C.     Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall 
       be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To 
       preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor 
       Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any 
       award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil 
       penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a 
       Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order 
       granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount 
       of the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be 
       deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil 
       penalty imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” 
       means a private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more 
       investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the 
       Commission in this proceeding. 

              D.     Respondent shall comply with the following undertakings: 

                      1.  Retain an independent consultant (the “Independent Consultant”) not 
                          unacceptable to the Staff within sixty (60) calendar days after the issuance of 
                          this Order.  Within thirty (30) calendar days after the issuance of this Order, 
                          Respondent shall recommend to the Staff three qualified candidates to serve 
                          as the Independent Consultant.  The Staff shall provide feedback to 
                          Respondent within fifteen (15) calendar days of receiving Respondent’s 
                          recommendations. 

                      2.  The Independent Consultant candidates shall have, at a minimum, the 
                          following qualifications: demonstrated expertise with respect to the FCPA, 
                          including experience counseling on FCPA issues; experience designing and/or 
                          reviewing corporate compliance policies, procedures, and internal controls, 
                          including FCPA-specific policies, procedures, and internal controls; ability to 
                          access and deploy resources as necessary to discharge the Independent 
                          Consultant’s duties as described herein; and independence from Respondent 

                                                       8 
 

 

        
---------------------Page 9---------------------

        

                          to ensure effective and impartial performance of the Independent Consultant’s 
                          duties. 

                      3.  The Independent Consultant should not have provided legal, auditing, or other 
                          services to, or have had any affiliations with, the Respondent during the two 
                          years prior to the issuance of this Order. 

                      4.  Respondent shall retain the Independent Consultant for a period of one (1) 
                          year from the date of the engagement.  Respondent shall exclusively bear all 
                          costs, including compensation and expenses, associated with the retention of 
                          the Independent Consultant.  

                      5.  To ensure the independence of the Independent Consultant, Respondent shall 
                          not have the authority to terminate the Independent Consultant without the 
                          prior written approval of the Staff. 

                      6.  The Independent Consultant’s responsibility is to review and evaluate 
                          Respondent’s internal controls, record-keeping and financial reporting policies 
                          and procedures as they relate to its compliance with the books and records, 
                          internal accounting controls, and anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA (“the 
                          Policies and Procedures”) and to make recommendations designed to 
                          reasonably improve the Policies and Procedures.  This review and evaluation 
                          shall include an assessment of the Policies and Procedures as actually 
                          implemented and how FCPA compliance fits within Respondent’s ethics and 
                          compliance function.  The Independent Consultant shall consider whether the 
                          ethics and compliance function has sufficient resources, authority, and 
                          independence, and provides sufficient training and guidance.   

                      7.  Respondent and the Independent Consultant shall agree that the Independent 
                          Consultant is an independent third-party and not an employee or agent of the 
                          Respondent.  In addition, Respondent and the Independent Consultant agree 
                          that no attorney-client relationship shall be formed between them. 

                      8.  Respondent shall require the Independent Consultant to enter in an agreement 
                          with Respondent providing that, for the period of engagement and for a period 
                          of two years from completion of the engagement, the Independent Consultant 
                          shall not enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or 
                          other professional relationship with Respondent, or any of its present or 
                          former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their 
                          capacity as such.  Any firm with which the Independent Consultant is 
                          affiliated or of which he/she is a member, and any person engaged to assist the 
                          Independent Consultant in performance of his/her duties under this Order shall 
                          not, without prior written consent of the Staff enter into any employment, 
                          consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with 
                          Respondent, or any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers, 

                                                       9 
 

 

        
---------------------Page 10---------------------

        

                          employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such for the period of the 
                          engagement and for a period of two (2) years after the engagement. 

                      9.  Respondent shall require the Independent Consultant to prepare a written 
                          work plan and submit it to Respondent and the Staff for comment within thirty 
                          (30) calendar days of commencing the engagement.  The Respondent’s 
                          comments shall be provided to the Independent Consultant no more than 
                          fifteen (15) calendar days after receipt of the written work plan.  In order to 
                          conduct an effective initial review and to understand fully any deficiencies in  
                          the Policies and Procedures, including how FCPA compliance fits within 
                          Respondent’s ethics and compliance function, the Independent Consultant’s 
                          initial work plan shall include such steps as are reasonably necessary to 
                          develop an understanding of the facts and circumstances surrounding any 
                          violations that may have occurred as reflected in this matter and to assess the 
                          effectiveness of Respondent’s existing Policies and Procedures, and of 
                          Respondent’s ethics and compliance program.  Any dispute between 
                          Respondent and the Independent Consultant with respect to the work plan 
                          shall be decided by the Staff. 

                      10. Respondent shall cooperate fully with the Independent Consultant, and the 
                          Independent Consultant shall have the authority to take such reasonable steps 
                          as, in his or her view, may be necessary to be fully informed about 
                          Respondent’s Policies and Procedures in accordance with the principles set 
                          forth herein and applicable law, including data protection, blocking statutes, 
                          and labor laws and regulations applicable to Respondent.  To that end 
                          Respondent shall provide the Independent Consultant with access to all 
                          information, documents, records, facilities and/or employees, as requested by 
                          the Independent Consultant, that fall within the scope of the Independent 
                          Consultant’s responsibility, except as provided in this paragraph; and provide 
                          guidance on applicable laws (such as relevant data protection, blocking 
                          statutes, and labor laws). 

                      11. In the event the Respondent seeks to withhold from the Independent 
                          Consultant access to information, documents, records, facilities and/or 
                          employees of Respondent that may be subject to a claim of attorney-client 
                          privilege or to the attorney work product doctrine, or where Respondent 
                          reasonably believes production would otherwise be inconsistent with 
                          applicable law or beyond the scope of these undertakings, Respondent shall 
                          work cooperatively with the Independent Consultant.  If the matter cannot be 
                          resolved, at the request of the Independent Consultant, Respondent shall 
                          promptly provide written notice to the Independent Consultant and the Staff.  
                          Such notice shall include a general description of the nature of the 
                          information, documents, records, facilities and/or employees that are being 
                          withheld, as well as the basis for the claim.  To the extent Respondent has 
                          provided information to the Staff in the course of the investigation leading to 

                                                      10 
 

 

        
---------------------Page 11---------------------

        

                          this action pursuant to a non-waiver of privilege agreement, Respondent and 
                          the Independent Consultant may agree to production of such information to 
                          the Independent Consultant pursuant to a similar non-waiver agreement. 

                      12. Respondent shall require the Independent Consultant to issue a written report 
                          (“Report”), within six (6) months after being retained to review Respondent’s 
                          Policies and Procedures: (a) summarizing its review and evaluation, and (b) if 
                          necessary, making recommendations based on its review and evaluation that 
                          are reasonably designed to improve Respondent’s Policies and Procedures.  
                          Respondent shall require that the Independent Consultant provide the Report 
                          to the Board of Directors of Respondent and simultaneously transmit a copy to 
                          the Staff at the following address:  Ansu N. Banerjee, Assistant Regional 
                          Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 444 
                          South Flower Street, Suite 900, Los Angeles, California 90071. 

                      13. Respondent shall adopt all recommendations in the Report within sixty (60) 
                          days of the issuance of the Report; provided, however, that, as to any 
                          recommendations that Respondent considers to be unduly burdensome, 
                          impractical, or costly, Respondent need not adopt the recommendations at that 
                          time, but may submit in writing to the Staff, within thirty (30) days of 
                          receiving the Report, an alternative policy or procedure designed to achieve 
                          the same objective or purpose.  Respondent and the Independent Consultant 
                          shall attempt in good faith to reach an agreement relating to each 
                          recommendation Respondent considers unduly burdensome, impractical, or 
                          costly.  In the event that Respondent and the Independent Consultant are 
                          unable to agree on an alternative proposal within thirty (30) days, Respondent 
                          will abide by the determinations of the Staff.   

                      14. Upon completion of the implementation, the Independent Consultant shall 
                          have thirty (30) calendar days to complete a follow-up review to confirm that 
                          Respondent has implemented the recommendations or agreed-upon 
                          alternatives and continued the application of the Policies and Procedures, and 
                          to deliver a supplemental report to the Board of Directors of Respondent and 
                          the Staff setting forth its conclusions and whether any further improvements 
                          should be implemented.   

                      15. Respondent agrees that the Staff may extend any of the dates set forth above 
                          at its direction. 

                      16. Respondent shall certify, in writing, compliance with the undertaking(s) set 
                          forth above.  The certification shall identify the undertaking(s), provide 
                          written evidence of compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by 
                          exhibits sufficient to demonstrate compliance.  The Staff may make 
                          reasonable requests for further evidence of compliance, and Respondent 
                          agrees to provide such evidence.  Respondent shall submit the certification 

                                                      11 
 

 

        
---------------------Page 12---------------------

        

                          and supporting material to Ansu N. Banerjee, Assistant Regional Director, 
                          Division of Enforcement, with a copy to the Office of Chief Counsel of the 
                          Enforcement Division, no later than sixty (60) days from the date of the 
                          completion of the undertakings.   

                      17. Respondent agrees that these undertakings shall be binding upon any 
                          successor in interest to Respondent or any acquirer of substantially all of 
                          Respondent’s assets and liabilities or business.     

               By the Commission. 

                                                            

                                                           Brent J. Fields 
                                                           Secretary 
        

        

        

        

        

        

                                                       12 
 

 

        
