---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                               UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                             before the 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 74904 / May 7, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3655 / May 7, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16527 
 
                                                        
In the Matter of                                      ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                      ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
GRUBER & COMPANY LLC and                              PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                      COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
EDWARD RANDALL GRUBER (CPA), 
                                                      PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                                      IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
             Respondents. 
                                                                           
 
                                                
 
                                                  I. 
 
        The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Gruber 
& Company LLC (“Gruber & Co.”) and Edward Randall Gruber, CPA (“Gruber”) (collectively 
                                                                                       1
“Respondents”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.       
 
                                                 II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose 
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with     due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by re    ason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over each of them and the subject matter of these proceedings,  
and the findings contained in Section III.4. below, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the 
entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), 
as set forth below. 
 
                                              III. 
                                                 
       On the basis of this Order and the Respondents’ Offer, the Commission finds that: 
        
       1.     Gruber & Company LLC, located during the pertinent period in Lake Saint Louis, 
Missouri, is a Missouri limited liability company and public accounting firm licensed by the 
Missouri State Board of Accountancy, and formerly registered with the Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”).  Gruber & Co. acted as the independent auditor for Gold 
Standard Mining Corporation (“Gold Standard”) from February 14, 2008 to February 4, 2011.  
Gruber & Co. performed public company audits of, and issued an audit report on June 21, 2010 
containing an unqualified opinion on, the consolidated financial statements of Gold Standard for 
the fiscal years ending December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.  Gold Standard filed Gruber & Co.’s 
audit report in its amended Form 8-K with the Commission on October 5, 2010.  In addition, 
Gruber & Co. performed a review of the consolidated financial statements contained in Gold 
Standard’s September 30, 2010 Form 10-Q, which was filed with the Commission on November 
22, 2010.  Gruber & Co. resigned as Gold Standard’s independent auditor on February 4, 2011.  
Gruber & Co. ceased to perform public company audits as of June 27, 2013, when its registration 
with the PCAOB was permanently revoked.  See PCAOB Release No. 105-2013-005 (June 27, 
2013). 
         
       2.     Edward Randall Gruber, age 63, is a Certified Public Accountant (“CPA”) licensed 
to practice in Missouri.  During the pertinent period, Gruber was a resident of Lake Saint Louis, 
Missouri.  Gruber is the sole managing member and owner of Gruber & Co.  Gruber served as the 
engagement partner for Gruber & Co.’s audits of Gold Standard’s consolidated financial 
statements for the fiscal years ending December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, and review of Gold 
Standard’s September 30, 2010 financial statements.  As the engagement partner on the audits of 
Gold Standard’s financial statements, Gruber was responsible for supervising the engagements and 
causing Gruber & Co. to issue the audit reports for Gruber & Co.  On June 27, 2013, Gruber was 
permanently barred from being an associated person of a registered public accounting firm, as that 
term is defined in Section 2(a)(9) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended.  See PCAOB 
Release No. 105-2013-005 (June 27, 2013).  
 
       3.     Gold Standard was a Nevada corporation whose principal office was located in 
Beverly Hills, California during the pertinent period.  At times relevant to this Order, Gold 
Standard’s securities were registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and quoted on the over-the-counter bulletin 
board under the symbol “GSTP”.   
        

                                               2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       4.     On February 4 and 12, 2015, final judgments were entered against Gruber and 
Gruber & Co. respectively permanently enjoining them from future violations of Sections 10(b) 
and 10A(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 adopted thereunder; and from aiding and abetting 
violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-11, and 13a-13 adopted 
thereunder, in the civil action entitled SEC v. Gold Standard Mining Corp., et al., Civil Action 
Number 2:12-cv-5662-JCB-CW in the United States District Court for the Central District of 
California.   
        
       5.     The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that during 2009 Gold 
Standard reported that it had acquired a Russian gold mining company, and filed unaudited, 
consolidated financial statements which increased its assets to more than $1.3 billion, but failed to 
disclose material information that the acquisition had not been completed because the change in 
ownership was not registered with, or approved by Russian regulatory authorities.  The complaint 
alleged that Gruber & Co. violated, and Gruber aided and abetted violations of, Section 10(b) of 
the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 when Gruber & Co. made false and misleading statements in its 
audit report filed with Gold Standard’s amended Form 8-K on October 5, 2010.   Gruber, the 
engagement partner on the audit, caused Gruber & Co. to issue the false and misleading audit 
report that stated: Gruber & Co. had conducted the audit of Gold Standard’s consolidated financial 
statements in accordance with PCAOB standards, when in fact it did not; and the consolidated 
financial statements fairly presented the financial position of Gold Standard and its subsidiaries, 
when they did not.  The complaint alleged that during the audit Gruber raised questions about 
whether Gold Standard had consummated its purchase of the Russian gold mining company by 
properly registering the acquisition with Russian regulatory authorities, but failed to obtain 
sufficient competent evidential matter to determine whether the registration ever occurred.  In 
addition, the complaint alleged that Gruber & Co. and Gruber failed to design audit procedures to 
provide reasonable assurance of detecting illegal acts that would have a direct and material effect 
on the determination of financial statement amounts in violation of Section 10A(a) of the 
Exchange Act.  Furthermore, the complaint alleged that Gruber & Co. and Gruber aided and 
abetted Gold Standard’s violations of the reporting requirements of  Section 13(a) of the Exchange 
Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-11, and 13a-13 by submitting the false and misleading audit report for 
inclusion in Gold Standard’s amended Form 8-K filed on October 5, 2010, and performing a 
deficient review of the financial statements in the September 30, 2010 Form 10-Q, which 
contained estimated financial statements not prepared in conformance with generally accepted 
accounting principles.     
        
                                               IV. 
 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondents’ Offer. 
   
        
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
        
       A.     Gruber  & Company LLC  is suspended from  appearing or practicing before the 
               Commission as an accountant; and 

                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                    
       B.     Gruber is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
               accountant. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     Brent J. Fields 
                                                     Secretary 
 
 

                                                 4  
