---------------------Page 1---------------------

                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                          Before the 
                        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  
   SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
   Release No. 77745 / April 29, 2016 
    
   INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940 
   Release No. 4380 / April 29, 2016 
    
   ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
   Release No. 3772 / April 29, 2016 
    
   ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
   File No.  3-17238 
  

                                                     ORDER INSTITUTING 

 In the Matter of                                    ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-

                                                     AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS 

                                                    PURSUANT TO SECTION 4C OF THE 

        SANTOS, POSTAL &                            SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 

        COMPANY, P.C. and                           1934, SECTION 203(k) OF THE 

        JOSEPH A. SCOLARO, CPA,              INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 

                                                     1940, AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 

                                                    COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                    PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, 
 Respondents. 
                                                    AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL 
                                                    SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-AND-
                                                    DESIST ORDER 
  

                                                
                                              I. 
  
        The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
 administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 
   1 
 4C  of  the  Securities   Exchange Act  of  1934 (“Exchange Act”), Section 203(k) of the Investment 
 Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”), and Rule 102(e)(1) of the Commission’s  Rules of 

                                                            
 1
        Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that: 
  
        The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the 
        privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in  any way, if that person is found . . . 
        (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications  to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character 
        or integrity, or to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have 
        willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the  securities 
        laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
         

                                              1 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

         2
Practice,  against   Santos, Postal &  Company, P.C.  (“SPC”) and Joseph A. Scolaro, CPA (“Scolaro” 
and collectively, “Respondents”). 
 
                                                    II. 
 
        In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V as to Respondent 
Scolaro, Respondents consent  to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-
Desist Proceedings Pursuant to  Section 4C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Section 203(k) 
of the Investment Advisers Act  of 1940, and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
Making Findings, and Imposing  Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as 
set forth below. 
 
                                                   III. 
                                                      
                                                                                        3 
        On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds          that:  
         
                                                Summary 
 
        This matter involves repeated failures by SPC, an accounting firm, and Joseph A. 
Scolaro, an SPC partner, in connection with SPC’s examinations of client funds and securities of 
which a registered investment adviser  has custody (the “Examinations”) pursuant to Section 
                                                                                       4
206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-2 thereunder (the “Custody Rule”).              In particular, 
Respondents engaged in improper professional conduct         under Section 4C of the Exchange Act 
and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii)   and (iii)   of the Commission’s Rules of Practice when completing their 
2010 and 2011 Examinations.  In addition, Respondents twice filed reports on Forms ADV-E 
that contained untrue statements of material facts regarding the Examinations, thereby violating 
Section 207 of the Advisers Act.    
 
 
 
                                                           
2
        Rule 102(e)(1) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
        The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
        practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have  engaged in unethical or improper 
        professional conduct; or to have willfully violated . . . any provision of the Federal securities laws 
        or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
         
3
        The  findings   herein  are  made  pursuant   to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not  binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
 
4
        Rule 206(4)-2 was amended on December 30, 2009, effective March 12, 2010.  See Custody of Funds or 
Securities of Clients by Investment Advisers, Advisers Act Rel. No. 2968 (Dec. 30, 2009).  The relevant conduct 
described herein occurred after this amendment. 

                                                    2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                         Respondents 
  
       1.     Santos, Postal & Company, P.C.  (“SPC”) is a Rockville, Maryland based 
certified public accounting and management consulting firm established in 1971 that has 
approximately 40 professional staff, including five partners.  SPC primarily provides accounting, 
tax and auditing services to individuals and private entities and has been registered with the 
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board since 2010.  Other than SFX, SPC did not provide 
services to any SEC-registered clients.  SPC has never been subject to any disciplinary or 
regulatory proceedings.     

       2.     Joseph A. Scolaro (“Scolaro”), age 52, resides in Highland, Maryland.  Scolaro 
has been a certified public accountant licensed in Maryland since 1989.  During the relevant 
period, Scolaro owned 25% of SPC and has been an SPC partner since 2004.  Scolaro was the 
only engagement partner for services provided to SFX.  Scolaro has never been subject to any 
disciplinary or regulatory proceedings.  

                                   Other Relevant Entities 

       3.     SFX Financial Advisory Management Enterprises, Inc. (“SFX”) is a Delaware 
corporation organized on March 25, 1992, and headquartered in Washington, D.C.  SFX became 
registered with the Commission as an investment adviser on September 21, 1992, but withdrew 
its registration on September 12, 2012 due to its failure to maintain eligibility for registration 
based on the amount of assets under management.  SFX is currently registered in the District of 
Columbia.  Live Nation Worldwide, Inc., which is owned by Live Nation Entertainment, Inc. 
(“Live Nation”) (NYSE: LYV), wholly-owns SFX.  SFX assesses its clients fixed fees and fees 
based on assets under management.  In its most-recent Form ADV filing in March 2015, SFX 
disclosed that it managed $14 million on a discretionary basis.  On June 15, 2015, the 
Commission issued an order finding (among other things) that SFX willfully violated Sections 
206(2) and 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rules 206(4)-2 and 206(4)-7 thereunder, and failed to 
supervise Brian J. Ourand within the meaning of Section 203(e)(6) of the Advisers Act.  See SFX 
Financial Advisory Enterprises, Inc., et al., Advisers Act Rel. No. 4116 (June 15, 2015). 

       4.     Brian J. Ourand (“Ourand”), age 53, is a resident of Chicago, Illinois.  In 1986, 
 Ourand began working at Professional Services Inc., which SFX acquired in 1999.  From June 
 2003 to March 2007, Ourand served as SFX’s Vice President.  Ourand served as SFX’s 
 President from March 2007 through August 2011.  In August 2011, SFX terminated Ourand for 
 misappropriating client funds.  On June 15, 2015, the Commission instituted an administrative 
 and cease-and-desist proceeding against Ourand alleging violations of Sections 206(1) and 
 206(2) of the Advisers Act.  See Brian J. Ourand, Advisers Act Rel. No. 4115 (June 15, 2015). 

                                         Background 
 
       5.     SFX specializes in providing advisory and financial management services to high 
net-worth individuals.  Clients entered into agreements with SFX to receive, among other 
services, investment advisory and bill-paying services.  SFX had the power to withdraw from 
and deposit client assets to both bank and brokerage accounts as part of its bill paying authority.  

                                              3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                                   5
Consequently, SFX had custody over client assets.      In particular, at least two individuals at SFX  
had the authority to withdraw money from client accounts   , including Ourand .     Our and   was  also 
identified in SFX’s Form ADV as a control person.   

       6.      In 2004, SFX first engaged SPC to perform Examinations.  SPC continued to 
conduct those Examinations until SFX withdrew its Commission registration in 2012.   

       7.      From 2006 through 2011, Ourand misappropriated funds from client accounts.  
During this time, Ourand wrote unauthorized checks from client bank accounts payable to “cash” 
or himself, and wired unauthorized amounts to himself for his own personal use.  He also wired 
money using client credit cards for unauthorized amounts to others for their personal use. 

       8.      In October 2011, SFX informed Scolaro that Ourand had been terminated for 
misappropriating client funds and that SFX had reimbursed the affected clients.   

                         SPC’s Engagement and Examination Reports 

       9.      From 2010 to 2011, SPC completed three reports for SFX, which were filed with 
the Commission on Forms ADV-E.  In connection with its 2010 Examination, SPC completed 
two reports filed on Forms ADV-E: on November 22, 2010, SPC filed a Form ADV-E with the 
results of its 2010 Examination (the “2010 Report”), and on March 1, 2011, SPC filed a revised 
report (the “2010 Revised Report”).  In connection with its 2011 Examination, SPC completed a 
report filed with the Commission on Form ADV-E on February 8, 2012 (the “2011 Report”).      

       10.    In the 2010 Report, SPC stated that it had “examined . . . management’s assertion 
. . . that SFX . . . complied with certain provisions of rules 204-2(b) and 206(4)-2 of the 
Investment Advisers Act . . .”  SPC further stated that “Our examination was conducted in 
accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public 
Accountants . . .” and then enumerated various tests SPC purportedly performed.  SPC also 
stated that “We believe that our examination provides a reasonable basis for our opinion . . . In 
our opinion . . . Management’s assertion that SFX . . . complied with the requirements of 
subparagraphs (1), (2), (3) and (4) of Rule 206(4)-2(a) . . . is fairly stated in all material 
respects.”  The 2010 Revised Report and 2011 Report contained similar language.  Scolaro 
signed each report on SPC’s behalf. 

       11.    Two of SPC’s reports regarding its Examinations of SFX contained untrue 
statements of material facts.  First, the 2010 Revised Report represented that SPC had confirmed 
with SFX’s clients contributions to and withdrawals from client accounts, when it had not.  The 
2010 Revised Report also falsely stated that all of the testing procedures were performed for the 
period ended November 11, 2010, when they were actually performed for the period ended July 
31, 2010 (over three months earlier).  Second, the 2011 Report included SPC’s unqualified 
opinion that management’s assertion that SFX complied with the requirements of Advisers Act 
Rule 206(4)-2(a)(1) as of May 31, 2011, relating to a qualified custodian maintaining client 
funds and securities, was fairly stated, in all material respects.  Before filing the 2011 Report, 

                                                           
5
       Under Advisers Act Rule 206(4)-2(d)(2)(ii), an adviser has custody if it has the authority to withdraw client 
assets maintained with a qualified custodian upon the adviser’s instruction to the custodian. 

                                                4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

however, SPC and Scolaro knew that Ourand had misappropriated client funds.  In light of the 
misappropriation, all client funds were not maintained with a qualified custodian as of May 31, 
2011.  

      SPC and Scolaro Engaged in Improper Professional Conduct in Performing the 
                                 Examinations of the Adviser 

       12.    Scolaro’s conduct in performing SFX’s 2010 through 2011 Examinations violated 
the professional standards for certified public accountants set forth in American Institute of 
Certified Public Accountants’ (“AICPA”) standards for attest engagements (AT § 101) and 
compliance attestation (AT § 601).  

       Failure to Exercise Due Professional Care and Professional Skepticism 

       13.    AT § 101.39 provides that “[t]he fifth general standard is – The practitioner must 
exercise due professional care in the planning and performance of the engagement and the 
preparation of the report.”  AT § 101.40 provides that “Due professional care imposes a 
responsibility on each practitioner involved with the engagement to observe each of the 
attestation standards.”  AT § 601.38 provides that “[t]he practitioner should exercise (a) due care 
in planning, performing, and evaluating the results of his or her examination procedures and (b) 
the proper degree of professional skepticism to achieve reasonable assurance that material 
noncompliance will be detected.”  As a result of the failures described herein, for the 2010 and 
2011 Examinations, Scolaro did not exercise due professional care or the proper degree of 
professional skepticism in the planning and performance of the engagements. 

       14.    In planning the 2010 and 2011 Examinations, Scolaro did not adequately consider 
fraud risk factors related to fraudulent reporting or misappropriation of assets, including (a) 
deficiencies in the system of internal controls over compliance, (b) ineffective monitoring of 
management as a result of domination of management by a small group without compensating 
controls, and (c) significant unusual related party transactions.  See AT § 601.33 (requiring the 
consideration of factors similar to those in audit standard AU § 316.85 Consideration of Fraud in 
a Financial Statement Audit).  Scolaro failed to identify any specific attestation risks regarding 
SFX’s compliance with the Custody Rule.  There were, however, significant risks that Scolaro 
should have identified.  For example, at least two dominant individuals with significant influence 
had full signatory power of client bank accounts relating to SFX’s bill-paying services and there 
was inadequate segregation of duties within the bill-paying process, thereby creating inherently 
significant risks of misappropriation from client accounts.  Further, Scolaro failed to identify 
Ourand as a person authorized to disburse funds from client accounts, thereby obstructing his 
ability to fully assess the risks associated with significant unusual related party transactions.  
Even after SFX informed SPC in October 2011 that SFX had terminated Ourand for 
misappropriating client funds, Scolaro did not perform any further assessment of fraud risk 
factors in conducting the 2011 Examination.  

       15.    For the 2010 and 2011 Examinations, Scolaro did not gain an adequate 
understanding of SFX’s internal controls over compliance as they related to SFX’s compliance 
with the Custody Rule.  AT §§ 601.45, 601.46 (providing that an accountant conducting an 
examination is required to perform procedures sufficient to obtain an adequate understanding of 

                                               5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

internal controls over compliance).  For example, Scolaro identified only one person at SFX who 
could authorize payments from or write checks against client accounts – failing to identify 
Ourand as a person with such authority.  Further, Scolaro did not understand that there was 
inadequate segregation of duties within SFX for disbursements from client accounts, with a 
single person at SFX being allowed to authorize a transaction, have custody of documents 
necessary to initiate a transaction (such as blank checks), and record the transaction in the 
accounting system without compensating controls.  Further, Scolaro made no additional effort to 
understand SFX’s internal controls relating to its compliance with the Custody Rule in 
connection with its 2011 Examination procedures despite learning, in October 2011, that SFX 
had terminated Ourand for misappropriating client funds. 

       16.    Another factor to be considered by a practitioner in planning an attest engagement 
is conditions that may require extension or modification of attest procedures.  See AT § 101.45.  
This guidance is supplemented by AT § 101.47, which provides that “. . . as the attest 
engagement progresses, changed conditions may make it necessary to modify planned 
procedures.” 

       17.    Scolaro did not document his consideration as to whether the 2011 Examination 
procedures should be extended or modified after SFX informed Scolaro of Ourand’s 
misappropriation.  Scolaro did not document that the fraud had occurred or perform any 
additional procedures after learning of Ourand’s misappropriation, including (for example) 
evaluating the nature and magnitude of the misappropriation, how Ourand stole client funds, or 
whether the misappropriation should affect the timing and extent of attestation procedures.   

       Failure to Obtain Sufficient Evidence 

       18.    AT § 101.51 provides that “[t]he second standard of fieldwork is – The 
practitioner must obtain sufficient evidence to provide a reasonable basis for the conclusion that 
is expressed in the report.”  AT § 601.48 provides that “The practitioner should apply procedures 
to provide reasonable assurance of detecting material noncompliance.”  As described herein, for 
the 2010 and 2011 Examinations, Scolaro failed to obtain sufficient evidence to provide a 
reasonable basis for the conclusions expressed in the examination reports or to provide 
reasonable assurance of detecting noncompliance because he failed to obtain sufficient evidence 
through effectively designed sampling plans, independent confirmations with clients, or 
alternative procedures that provide relevant and reliable evidence.  

       19.    For the 2010 Examination, Scolaro inadequately planned, performed and 
evaluated samples.  See AT § 601.48 and AU § 350, Audit Sampling.  The sufficiency of audit 
evidence is related to the design and size of an audit sample, among other factors.  See AU 
§ 350.05.  In addition, sample items should be selected in such a way that the sample can be 
expected to be representative of the population, and all items in the population should have an 
opportunity to be selected.  See AU § 350.24.  Further, the practitioner should determine which 
items, if any, should be individually examined and which items, if any, should be subject to 
sampling.  The practitioner should examine those items for which, in his judgment, acceptance of 
some sampling risk is not justified.  See AU § 350.21.   

        

                                               6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

       20.    In 2010, Scolaro used sampling procedures that were inadequate.  In particular, 
when confirmations of account balances were not returned by clients, Scolaro sampled client 
accounts by selecting a single transaction for the entire period for each client (for a total of 26 
sample items) and reviewing supporting documentation.  Moreover, the single transaction 
selected was the first transaction in the account in the calendar year regardless of amount, type 
(credit or debit) or counterparty.  The deficiencies in internal controls over SFX’s bill-paying 
services and the absence of other effective substantive tests to verify account balances directly 
with clients are factors that should have resulted in larger sample sizes.  Further, Scolaro did not 
separately evaluate or examine the significant unusual checks made to Ourand or to cash, which 
a proper degree of professional skepticism should have dictated were high risk transactions.   

       21.    AT § 101.72 provides that “[t]he practitioner should not express an unqualified 
conclusion unless the engagement has been conducted in accordance with the attestation 
standards.  Such standards will not have been complied with if the practitioner has been unable 
to apply all the procedures that he or she considers necessary in the circumstances.”  In its 2010 
Revised Report, SPC provided an unqualified conclusion that SFX’s assertion that it was in 
compliance with the Custody Rule was fairly stated.  Moreover, the unqualified conclusion was 
supported, in part by falsely stating that SPC had confirmed contributions to and withdrawals 
from client accounts when, in fact, these procedures were not performed and SPC had not 
performed adequate alternative procedures to obtain sufficient evidence to provide a reasonable 
basis for these conclusions.  

       22.    AT § 601.63 provides that an examination report on an entity’s assertion about 
compliance should be modified if there is material noncompliance with specified requirements.  
Scolaro should have known that Ourand’s misappropriation was material to users of the reports.  
See AT § 101.67.  Accordingly, Scolaro had a responsibility to disclose in SPC’s reports this 
material noncompliance.  The 2011 Report, however, contained an unqualified opinion and made 
no mention of Ourand’s misappropriation.   

       Failure to Prepare and Maintain Examination Documentation 

       23.    Scolaro failed to prepare and maintain attest documentation sufficient to enable 
reviewers to understand the nature, timing and extent of attest procedures performed and the 
information obtained.  See AT § 101.103.  SPC’s work papers for its 2010 and 2011 
Examinations of SFX did not contain any explanation of why Scolaro used the sampling 
approach that it did or how such approach provided sufficient evidence.  Further, the work 
papers did not document the existence of Ourand’s misappropriation, whether Scolaro obtained 
information to understand the nature and extent of the fraud, or whether Scolaro considered if 
examination procedures should be extended or modified after learning of Ourand’s 
misappropriation.  As a result, Scolaro failed to adequately document his Examinations of SFX 
and significant conclusions reached. 

       Inadequate Training 

       24.    SPC and Scolaro did not assign an engagement team that “[had] adequate 
technical training and proficiency to perform the attestation engagement.”  See AT § 101.19.  See 
also AT § 601.40.  Scolaro and the SPC senior accountant assigned to the engagements lacked 

                                               7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

adequate knowledge and understanding of the Custody Rule, were not aware that the 
Examination was to be conducted in accordance with the provisions of AT §§ 101 and 601, and 
were not familiar with the guidance the Commission issued in 2009.  See Commission Guidance 
Regarding Independent Public Accountant Engagements Performed Pursuant to Rule 206(4)-2 
Under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Advisers Act Rel. No. 2969 (Dec. 30, 2009, effective 
Mar. 12, 2010). 

         SPC Engaged in Improper Professional Conduct by Not Adhering to Professional 
                                  Quality Control Standards 
        
       25.    AT § 101.17 provides that “a firm of practitioners has a responsibility to adopt a 
system of quality control in the conduct of a firm’s attest practice.”  Although SPC established a 
system of quality controls, the design and implementation of the firm’s policies and procedures 
were ineffective, as discussed herein, in providing reasonable assurance that its personnel 
complied with professional standards and applicable regulatory requirements in conducting the 
2010 and 2011 Examinations, or that the reports issued by the firm were appropriate in the 
circumstances.  

                                                              6
       26.    The AICPA Quality Control Standards (“QC”)        provide   that the firm should 
establish policies and procedures requiring that the engagement partner has the appropriate 
competence, capabilities, and authority to perform the role.  See QC §10.33b.  The firm should 
establish policies and procedures to assign appropriate personnel with the necessary competence 
and capabilities to perform engagements in accordance with professional standards and 
applicable legal and regulatory requirements.  See QC §10.34a.  SPC maintained a policy 
wherein a management committee was responsible for ensuring that personnel with the necessary 
competence and capabilities were assigned to engagements.  Nevertheless, SPC assigned the 
Examinations to Scolaro even though he did not have adequate training and proficiency in 
Custody Rule compliance requirements or the appropriate competence to perform the 
engagements.  Accordingly, SPC did not properly monitor compliance with procedures designed 
to ensure that the appropriate personnel with the necessary competence and capabilities were 
assigned to perform the Examinations. 

       27.    Firms should establish criteria against which engagements should be evaluated to 
determine whether an engagement quality control review should be performed.  See QC §10.38.  
Engagement quality control reviews should be performed before release of the engagement 
report to evaluate the significant judgments made by the engagement team and the related 
conclusions reached in forming the overall conclusion on the engagement and in preparing the 
engagement report.  See QC §10.40 - .41.  While SPC maintained policies regarding the 
foregoing, these policies did not apply to attestation engagements, such as the SFX Examination, 
unless unusual circumstances or risks were identified relating to the engagement.  SPC did not 
identify any unusual circumstances or risks relating to the 2010 and 2011 SFX engagements and, 
consequently, the engagements were not subject to quality control reviews.  SPC was negligent 
in failing to identify unusual circumstances or risks relating to the 2011 engagement because it 

                                                           
6
       The AICPA Quality Control Standards (SQCS No. 7) were revised effective January 1, 2012 (SQCS No. 
8).  The revision changed the numbering of some of the standards but did not change or expand SQCS No. 7 in any 
significant respect.  References herein to AICPA Quality Control Standards refer to sections in SQCS No. 8. 

                                                8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

was aware of Ourand’s misappropriation.  SPC’s policy was inadequate and not properly 
implemented given that SPC did not conclude that Ourand’s misappropriation constituted an 
unusual circumstance or risk – thereby not performing a control review – while SPC had direct 
knowledge of fraud.   

       28.    Firms should establish policies and procedures to provide them with reasonable 
assurance that appropriate consultation takes place on difficult or contentious issues.  See QC 
§10.37.  This includes consultations on significant technical, ethical, and other matters.  See QC 
§10.A38.  The nature and scope of consultations should be documented and agreed upon by both 
the individual seeking consultation and the individual consulted.  See QC §10.37c.  SPC’s 
policies require documentation of consultations and specify various situations that may require 
consultations, including situations involving significant issues identified during the client 
acceptance and continuance process.  The discovery of Ourand’s misappropriation during SPC’s 
2011 Examination of SFX was a significant issue, although SPC and Scolaro failed to identify it 
as such, and no consultations were documented in connection with the 2011 Examination.  SPC’s 
policy was not properly implemented given that SPC did not conclude that Ourand’s 
misappropriation was a significant issue – thereby not obtaining a consultation – while it had 
knowledge of this conduct.  

                                            Violations 
 
                                                                                       7
       29.    As a result of the conduct described above, SPC and Scolaro willfully      violated 
Section 207 of the Advisers Act, which makes it “unlawful for any person willfully to make any 
untrue statement of a material fact in any registration application or report filed with the 
Commission . . . or willfully to omit to state in any such application or report any material fact 
which is required to be stated therein.” 

       30.    As a result of the conduct described above, SPC and Scolaro engaged in improper 
professional conduct as defined in Section 4C(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iv) of 
the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 

                                             Findings 

       31.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that SPC and Scolaro engaged in 
 improper professional conduct pursuant to Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 
 102(e)(1)(ii) and (iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 

       32.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that SPC and Scolaro willfully 
 violated Section 207 of the Advisers Act.  

                                                   
                                                   
                                                   

                                                           
7
       A willful violation of the securities laws means merely “‘that the person charged with the duty knows what 
he is doing.’” Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000) (quoting Hughes v. SEC, 174 F.2d 969, 977 
(D.C. Cir. 1949)).  There is no requirement that the actor “‘also be aware that he is violating one of the Rules or 
Acts.’” Id. (quoting Gearhart & Otis, Inc. v. SEC, 348 F.2d 798, 803 (D.C. Cir. 1965)). 

                                                9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

                                               IV. 
 
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
 agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
 
       Accordingly, pursuant to Section 4C of the Exchange Act, Section 203(k) of the Advisers 
Act, and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) and (iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, it is hereby 
ORDERED that: 
 
       A.     Respondents Scolaro and SPC shall cease and desist from committing or causing any 
violations and any future violations of Section 207 of the Advisers Act. 
        
       B.     Respondent Scolaro is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant. 
        
       C.     After five years from the date of this Order, Respondent Scolaro may request that 
the  Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief  Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
 
               1.  a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
                  of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the 
                  Commission. Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                  Respondent Scolaro’s work in his practice before the Commission will be 
                  reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company for 
                  which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices 
                  before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
                
               2.  an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission 
                  that: 
                
                  (a) Respondent Scolaro, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
                      associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting  Oversight 
                      Board (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley  Act of 2002, and 
                      such registration continues to be effective; 
                   
                  (b) Respondent Scolaro, or the registered public accounting firm with  which he 
                      is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that  inspection did not 
                      identify any criticisms of or potential defects in  his or the firm’s quality 
                      control system that would indicate that he  will not receive appropriate 
                      supervision; 
                   
                  (c) Respondent Scolaro has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
                      has complied with all terms and conditions of any  sanctions imposed by the 
                      Board (other than reinstatement by the  Commission); and 
                   
                  (d) Respondent Scolaro acknowledges his responsibility, as long as he  appears 

                                               10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

                      or practices before the Commission as an independent  accountant, to 
                      comply with all requirements of the Commission and  the Board, including, 
                      but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, 
                      concurring partner reviews and quality  control standards. 
 
       D.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent Scolaro to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and 
he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy. 
However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent Scolaro’s 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 
 
       E.     Respondent SPC is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing  before the 
Commission as an accountant. 
        
       F.     After one year from the date of this Order, Respondent SPC may request that the 
Commission consider its reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
 
               1.  a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review,  of 
                  any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the  Commission. 
                  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that  Respondent SPC work in 
                  its practice before the Commission  will be reviewed either by the independent 
                  audit committee of the public  company for which it works or in some other 
                  acceptable manner, as long as  it practices before the Commission in this 
                  capacity; and/or 
                
               2.  an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the  Commission 
                  that: 
 
                  (a) Respondent SPC is registered with the Board in  accordance with the 
                      Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
                   
                  (b) Respondent SPC hired an independent CPA consultant (“consultant”), 
                      who is not unacceptable to the staff of the Commission and is affiliated 
                      with a public accounting firm registered with the Board, that has 
                      conducted a review of SPC’s quality control system and submitted to the 
                      staff of the Commission a report that describes the review conducted and 
                      procedures performed, and represents that the review did not identify any 
                      criticisms of or potential defects in the firm’s quality control system that 
                      would indicate that any of SPC’s employees will not receive appropriate 
                      supervision.  SPC agrees to require the consultant, if and when retained, to 
                      enter into an agreement that provides that for the period of review and for 
                      a period of two years from completion of the review, the consultant shall 

                                               11 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

                      not enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or 
                      other professional relationship with SPC, or any of its present or former 
                      affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity. 
                      The agreement will also provide that the consultant will require that any 
                      firm with which he/she is affiliated or of which he/she is a member, and 
                      any person engaged to assist the consultant in performance of his/her 
                      duties under this Order shall not, without prior written consent of the staff, 
                      enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other 
                      professional relationship with SPC, or any of its present or former 
                      affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity 
                      as such for the period of the review and for a period of two years after the 
                      review; 
 
                  (c) Respondent SPC has resolved all disciplinary issues with  the Board, and has 
                      complied with all terms and conditions of any  sanctions imposed by the 
                      Board (other than reinstatement by the  Commission); and 
                   
                  (d) Respondent SPC acknowledges its responsibility, as long  as it appears or 
                      practices before the Commission as an independent  accountant, to comply 
                      with all requirements of the Commission and  the Board, including, but not 
                      limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring 
                      partner reviews and quality  control standards. 
 
       G.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent SPC to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that its state CPA license is current and 
it has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy. 
However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission 
will consider an application on its other merits. The Commission’s review may include 
consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to 
Respondent SPC’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or 
practice before the Commission. 
 
       H.     Respondent Scolaro shall, within 30 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil 
money penalty in the amount of $15,000 to the  Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer 
to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  
Respondent SPC shall, within 30 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money penalty in the 
amount of $15,000 to the  Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of 
the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  If any payment is not 
made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire outstanding balance of civil 
penalties, plus any additional interest accrued pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717, shall be due and 
payable immediately,  without further application.   
        
       I.      Respondent SPC shall, within 30 days of the entry of this Order, pay 
disgorgement of $25,800, which represents profits gained as a result of the conduct described 
herein, and prejudgment interest of $3,276.76 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for 
transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 

                                                12 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

21F(g)(3). If this payment is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the 
entire outstanding balance of disgorgement and prejudgment interest, plus any additional interest 
accrued pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600, shall be due and payable immediately, without 
further application. 
 
       J.      Payments described herein must be made in one of the following ways: 
 
              (1)    Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                      will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request; 
               
              (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or 
 
              (3)    Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to: 
 
                      Enterprise Services Center  
                      Accounts Receivable Branch  
                      HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                      6500 South MacArthur Boulevard  
                      Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying the 
relevant party as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a 
copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to C. Dabney O’Riordan, 
Associate Regional Director, Securities and Exchange Commission, Los Angeles Regional 
Office, 444 South Flower St., Suite 900, Los Angeles, California 90071. 
        
       K.     Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall 
be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To 
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that in any Related Investor 
Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or reduction 
of any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondents’ payment of a 
civil penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”).  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants 
such a Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that they shall, within 30 days after entry of a final 
order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the 
amount of the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall 
not be deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the 
civil penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor 
Action” means a private damages action brought against any or both of the Respondents by or on 
behalf of one or more investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order 
instituted by the Commission in this proceeding. 
 
 
 

                                               13 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

                                                V. 
                                                  
       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in 
Section 523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and 
admitted by Respondent Scolaro, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, 
civil penalty or other amounts due by Respondent Scolaro under this Order or any other 
judgment, order, consent order, decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with this 
proceeding, is a debt for the violation by Respondent Scolaro of the federal securities laws or any 
regulation or order issued under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy 
Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 
 
        By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                     Brent J. Fields  
                                                     Secretary 

                                               14 
