---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                          Before the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 79137 / October 21, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3817 / October 21, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17640 
 
                                                 ORDER INSTITUTING         PUBLIC  
In the Matter of                                 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
                                                 PURSUANT TO  RULE 102(e) OF THE 
       JULIANNE M. CHANDLER,              COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE,
                                                  
Respondent.                                                                       

                                              I. 

       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Julianne 
                                                                                              1
M. Chandler (“Respondent”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  

                                              II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of  Settlement  (the  “Offer”)  which  the  Commission  has  determined  to  accept.   Solely  for  the 
purpose  of  these  proceedings  and  any  other  proceedings  brought  by  or  on  behalf  of  the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein,  except  as  to  the  Commission’s  jurisdiction  over  her  and  the  subject  matter  of  these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of  the  Commission’s  Rules  of  Practice,  Making  Findings,  and  Imposing  Remedial  Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below. 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by 
order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has been by name 
. . . [p]ermanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in 
an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision 
of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 

       1.     Respondent Chandler is a resident of North Carolina.  She joined Lime Energy Co. 
(“Lime”) in May 2009, where she held positions as Senior Accounting Manager and Business Unit 
Controller before becoming Corporate Controller in August 2011, the position she held until her 
termination from the company in November 2012. 

       2.     Lime is a Delaware corporation that, during the relevant time period, was in the 
business of planning and delivering clean energy solutions to assist clients in achieving their 
energy efficiency and renewable energy goals.  Its headquarters are in Newark, New Jersey.  
During the relevant time period, Lime’s common stock was registered with the Commission 
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and traded 
on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the trading symbol “LIME.”        Its stock is now quoted on 
OTC Link (previously “Pink Sheets”) operated by OTC Markets Group, Inc. 
 
       3.     On October 18, 2016, 2016, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New 
York entered a Final  Judgment  by  consent  against Chandler, permanently  enjoining  her from 
violations  of  Section  17(a)  of  the  Securities  Act  of  1933,  Sections  10(b)  and  13(b)(5)  of  the 
Exchange Act, and Exchange Act Rules 10b-5 and 13b2-1, and aiding and abetting violations of 
Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13.  
SEC v. Lime Energy Co. et al., 1:16-CV-08088-ALC (S.D.N.Y.).  Chandler was ordered to pay a 
civil penalty of $25,000 and barred from serving as an officer or director of a public company for a 
period of five years from entry of the Final Judgment. 

       4.      Among   other   things,   the   Commission’s   Complaint   alleges   that   Chandler 
circumvented  Lime’s  internal  accounting  controls  and  falsified  or  caused  to  be  falsified  the 
company’s  books  and  records  by  facilitating  the  improper  early  recognition  of  revenue  by 
employees in Lime’s Utilities Division.  The Complaint also alleges that Chandler participated in 
the improper recognition of material amounts of revenue by Lime employees in its Public Sector 
and Utilities Divisions.  The Complaint further alleges that Chandler knew at the time that Lime 
was trying to meet certain revenue targets and that the revenue was being recognized by Lime 
employees in order to achieve those revenue goals. 
 
                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Chandler’s Offer.   

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:   

       A.     Chandler is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission 
              as an accountant.   

                                               2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

               B.     After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
       Commission consider her reinstatement by submitting an application (Attention: Office of 
       the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing  or  practicing before the Commission as  an 
       accountant. 

      
       By the Commission.  
 
 
                                                     Brent J. Fields 
                                                     Secretary 

                                                3  
