---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                               
                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 79393 / November 23, 2016 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3828 / November 23, 2016 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-14044 

                          
                           : 
                           : 
In the Matter of             ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           : 
                             REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
                           : 
Kendall G. Merkley, CPA      BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           : 
                           : 
                          
        
       On September 13, 2010, Kendall G. Merkley, CPA (“Merkley”) was denied the privilege 
of appearing or practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against Merkley pursuant to Section 4C 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the 
                              1
Commission's Rules of Practice.   This order is issued in response to Merkley’s application for 
reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant. 
        
       Merkley was found to have engaged in improper professional conduct with respect to his 
conduct as the engagement partner on KMJ Corbin & Company LLP’s (“KMJ”) audits and 
reviews of Home Solutions of America, Inc.’s (“HSOA”) financial statements for the years 
ended December 31, 2004 through December 31, 2006.  The Commission found that, during the 
relevant period, Merkley’s actions during the engagements were unreasonable and failed to 
conform to applicable professional standards.  Merkley failed to (i) obtain sufficient competent 
evidential matter regarding bonuses, revenues, and cost of revenues with respect to KMJ’s 2004, 
2005, and 2006 audit engagements; (ii) comply with PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 3, Audit 
Documentation; (iii) adequately plan the audit and properly supervise assistants in connection 
with the 2006 engagement; and (iv) conduct reviews of interim financial information in 
accordance with PCAOB standards and rules.  In addition, Merkley was a cause of HSOA’s 
violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 
thereunder and caused KMJ’s violation of Regulation S-X Rule 2-02(b)(1). 

                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 3185 dated September 13, 2010.  Merkley was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after three years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

        
        
       Merkley has met all of the conditions set forth in the original order and, in his capacity as 
an independent accountant, has stated that he will comply with all requirements of the 
Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, including, but not limited to 
all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
control standards.  In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the 
preparation or review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the 
Commission, Merkley attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the 
independent audit committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner 
acceptable to the Commission, while practicing before the Commission in this capacity.   
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
                                                          2
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”   This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
        On the basis of the information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed 
to by Merkley, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the September 13, 2010 order 
denying him the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, 
that no information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, 
integrity, professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be 
a basis for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of 
Practice, and that Merkley, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit 
committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, in his practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial 
statements required to be filed with the Commission, and that Merkley, by undertaking to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight 
Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, 
concurring partner reviews and quality control standards, in his practice before the Commission 
as an independent accountant has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is 
accordingly, 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this rule may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a hearing; 
however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated by the 
Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Kendall G. Merkley, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as 
an accountant. 
        
       By the Commission. 
                                            
                                                           
                                                           
                                                          Brent J. Fields  
                                                          Secretary  
 
