---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                        
                                                                                        
                                            
                                                                                        

 
                          UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                      Before the 
                  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 79335 / November 17, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3824 / November 17, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17684 
 
                                            ORDER INSTITUTING  CEASE-AND-
In the Matter of                            DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT 
                                            TO SECTION 21C OF THE 
       JP M ORGAN CHASE &                   SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 
       CO.,                                 1934, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                            IMPOSING  A CEASE-AND-DESIST 
Respondent .                                ORDER  
 
 
        
                                          I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
(“JPMorgan” or “Respondent”). 
                                            
                                          II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, JPMorgan has submitted an 
Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for 
the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s 
jurisdiction over Respondent and the subject matter of these proceedings, and consents to the 
entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order 
(“Order”), as set forth below.    
                                            
                                          III. 
 
                                                                          1
       On the basis of this Order and JPMorgan’s Offer, the Commission finds that:   

                                                  
1
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other 
person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                              

                                               
                                         Summary 
 
       1.      This matter concerns violations of the anti-bribery, books and records, and 
internal controls provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) by JPMorgan.  
Between 2006 and 2013, the firm provided valuable jobs and internships to the relatives and 
friends of certain key executives of its clients, prospective clients, and foreign government 
officials in the Asia-Pacific region (“APAC”) as a personal benefit to the requesting officials 
in order to obtain or retain investment banking business or other benefits for the firm.  Many 
of JPMorgan’s clients were state-owned entities (“SOEs”), and therefore the client executives 
requesting employment for their relatives and friends were foreign government officials 
under the FCPA.  The firm provided these jobs and internships with the intent to corruptly 
influence the foreign government officials making the requests.   
        
       2.      Investment bankers at JPMorgan’s subsidiary in Asia, JPMorgan Securities 
(Asia Pacific) Limited (“JPMorgan APAC”),  created a client referral hiring program to 
leverage the promise of well-paying, career building JPMorgan employment for the relatives 
and friends of senior officials with its clients in order to assist JPMorgan APAC in obtaining 
or retaining business.  A special hiring program (“Client Referral Program”) was created at 
JPMorgan APAC for referred candidates that bypassed the firm’s normal hiring process and 
was made available exclusively to candidates referred by clients, prospective clients, or 
foreign government officials (“Referral Hires”).  Non-referral JPMorgan APAC hires were 
subjected to a rigorous screening process and competed against other candidates for a limited 
number of positions.  Referral Hires did not compete against other candidates based on merit 
and, in most instances, were less qualified than those employees hired through the firm’s non-
referral hiring programs.  Instead, Referral Hires were hired based on direct or potential links 
to investment banking revenue that could be generated from the referring client in exchange 
for the hire.  Referral Hires whose relationships generated sufficient revenue for JPMorgan 
APAC were offered longer-term jobs, while others were given shorter terms of employment 
unless the referring client offered additional business to the firm.  In 2010 and 2011, 
JPMorgan APAC employees created spreadsheets to track the revenue to the firm from 
clients whose candidates were hired through the Client Referral Program.   
        
       3.      Over this seven-year period, JPMorgan hired approximately 200 interns and 
full-time employees at the request of its APAC clients, prospective clients, and foreign 
government officials.  This included nearly 100 candidates referred by foreign government 
officials at more than twenty different Chinese SOEs.  A number of the referral hires resulted 
in business for JPMorgan APAC.  The referring SOEs entered into transactions totaling more 
than $100,000,000 in revenue for JPMorgan APAC or its affiliates during this period.  
JPMorgan also hired referrals from more than 10 different government agencies.  JPMorgan 
APAC bankers leveraged connections with these government agencies to assist other 
JPMorgan APAC clients and the firm itself in navigating complicated regulatory landscapes.  
        
       4.      JPMorgan APAC employees understood that hiring relatives and friends of 
foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business posed the risk 
of violating the FCPA.  Nonetheless, JPMorgan APAC investment bankers and supporting 
personnel often provided inaccurate or incomplete information as part of the legal and 

                                             2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                           

compliance review designed to prevent these violations or withheld key information so that 
the Referral Hires would pass compliance review.  The legal and compliance review of 
Referral Hires became a formality in which JPMorgan APAC investment bankers and 
supporting personnel provided inaccurate or incomplete answers to secure approval for hires 
without revealing the links to business as a result of certain Referral Hires.  Of all the 
candidates that passed through JPMorgan APAC’s Client Referral Program, none were 
rejected by the legal and compliance review.   
        
       5.     JPMorgan failed to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting 
controls around its hiring practices sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that its 
employees were not bribing foreign officials in contravention of company policy.  Likewise, 
JPMorgan APAC employees failed to follow the firm’s internal accounting controls, and 
JPMorgan failed to implement other appropriate accounting controls to detect or prevent the 
Client Referral Program from being used to improperly benefit government officials.  
JPMorgan APAC employees took steps to hide the magnitude and purpose of the Client 
Referral Program from others within the firm, and devised a way to avoid having certain 
Referral Hires in APAC counted within JPMorgan APAC’s internal year-end headcount 
calculations.  For Referral Hires that originated in APAC but were employed outside of 
APAC, JPMorgan APAC employees failed to undertake a compliance review or impose 
conflict of interest restrictions despite knowledge of the FCPA and other risks. 
        
       6.     JPMorgan also violated the books and records provisions of the FCPA.  
JPMorgan APAC personnel created and implemented a system by which inaccurate or 
incomplete questionnaires were submitted, reviewed, and approved by compliance in 
contravention of the internal policy created to prevent improper hiring of Referral Hires.  The 
records reflected that they were hired for legitimate business purposes rather than as hires 
made to improperly benefit JPMorgan APAC investment banking business.  JPMorgan 
APAC’s internal records also inaccurately reflected the true number of client Referral Hires 
in the APAC region by taking steps to disguise the headcount relating to Referral Hires from 
others within the firm.   
        
                                       Respondent 
        
       7.     JPMorgan Chase & Co. is a Delaware corporation with its headquarters in 
New York, New York.  The company’s common stock is registered under Section 12(b) of 
the Exchange Act and listed on the New York Stock Exchange (ticker:  JPM).  JPMorgan and 
its various subsidiaries provide banking and financial services in North America and 
worldwide, including in the APAC region.  Services provided to APAC region clients by 
JPMorgan include investment banking, private banking, asset management, and commercial 
banking services.   
        
                        Other Relevant Entities and Individuals 
                                              
       8.     JPMorgan Securities (Asia Pacific) Ltd. (“JPMorgan APAC”) is a Hong 
Kong registered company and wholly owned and controlled subsidiary of JPMorgan.  
JPMorgan APAC operated as JPMorgan’s investment banking office in Hong Kong and 
coordinated JPMorgan’s investment banking operations in the Asia-Pacific region.  

                                            3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                                                                              

JPMorgan APAC is responsible for JPMorgan’s investment banking and certain other 
business in The People’s Republic of China, Hong Kong, and other countries in the Asia-
Pacific region. 
        
                                          FACTS 

JPMorgan’s Policies Prohibited the Hiring of Client Referrals in Exchange for Business 

       9.      As early as 2001, JPMorgan recognized the FCPA risks in hiring the relatives 
of foreign government officials.  JPMorgan therefore took steps to educate its employees on 
the potential dangers in hiring Referral Hires and the potential FCPA violations that could 
occur if Referral Hires were tied to business for the firm.  JPMorgan’s 2001 FCPA 
Compliance Policy noted that the “[h]iring of family members of foreign officials as 
employees, agents or consultants” was a “red flag… that could result in [an] FCPA 
violation.”  JPMorgan’s 2005 anti-bribery training included an example where “[a]s an 
understood part of the deal, the company will hire…the daughter of a government official 
from that country, for an unpaid summer internship.”  This training noted that the hiring of 
the daughter could be a bribe because the “internship has some value and is a requirement for 
the deal to happen.”   

       10.    In or about September 2007, JPMorgan instituted a new Anti-Corruption 
Policy which provided that “the offer of internships or training for relatives of a public 
official” required legal and compliance pre-clearance.  It also indicated that hiring individuals 
in order to win business was prohibited.  Specifically, the Policy stated that “it is improper for 
a person to offer or give anything to a public official, either directly or through an 
intermediary, in an effort to secure an advantage that would not have been granted if the offer 
or gift had not been made,” noting that “‘value’ can include such things as the offer of 
internships or training for relatives of a public official.”  This policy applied to JPMorgan 
APAC.  In addition, in 2007 JPMorgan APAC instituted training for employees in the region 
specifying that pre-clearance from compliance was required before JPMorgan APAC could 
hire Referral Hires because “[a]n offer of internship to a relative of a non-U.S. public official 
suggests an advantage by causing the official to misuse his or her position.” 

       11.    In approximately June 2011, JPMorgan implemented an updated Anti-
Corruption Policy which also applied to JPMorgan APAC.  Training provided regarding this 
Policy noted that “almost anything can meet the definition of a ‘bribe,’ including… 
internships [and] employment.”  The Policy further stated that “[n]o employee may directly 
or indirectly offer, promise, grant or authorize the giving of money or anything else of value 
to a government official to influence official action or obtain an improper advantage.” 

       12.    During this period, JPMorgan APAC also had an established, highly-selective 
hiring program for undergraduates and graduates to enter JPMorgan APAC’s summer 
internship and analyst/associate employment programs, primarily in Hong Kong.  Hiring was 
done mainly through campus recruiting at prestigious, highly-selective schools in the United 
States and elsewhere, as well as through an on-line application process.  Admission to the 
JPMorgan APAC hiring program was highly competitive, with candidates competing based 
on educational background, prior experience, language, and other skills.  Successful 
applicants usually had a minimum grade point average, a demonstrated affinity for and 

                                             4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                                                                             

interest in financial services work, language skills, and advanced through multiple rounds of 
interviews.  Throughout this period JPMorgan APAC had more applicants than it had 
available positions with the firm.   

          JPMorgan APAC Created a Client Referral Hiring Program in 2006 

       13.    In or around 2006, JPMorgan APAC’s investment banking group created and 
implemented a referral hiring program (referred to colloquially during the relevant time 
period as the “Sons & Daughters Program”) whereby certain internships and short-term, 
entry-level employment opportunities were made available only to Referral Hires in order to 
accommodate frequent requests to hire the relatives and friends of senior executives or 
officials with its clients, prospective clients, and contacts within foreign government 
ministries.  JPMorgan APAC created the “Sons & Daughters” program based on these 
requests from senior executives or officials and a perception of similar actions being taken by 
its competitors.  From the outset, the primary goal of client referral hiring was to generate 
revenue for JPMorgan APAC by extending personal favors to client executives and 
government officials through hiring their relatives and friends.    

       14.    By contrast with the established JPMorgan APAC non-referral hiring 
program, most JPMorgan APAC Referral Hires would not have secured positions with the 
firm but for the client relationship and request.  Referral Hires generally did not meet the 
minimum educational, grade-point average, or background qualifications that JPMorgan 
APAC looked for in its non-referral hiring programs.  Referral Hires were not subjected to 
the rigorous, multi-round interviews that non-Referral Hires had to go through before hiring.  
Likewise, Referral Hires were not evaluated based on merit, but instead were evaluated based 
on JPMorgan APAC’s relationship with and prospects for future revenue from the referring 
clients.  

       15.    During this time it was widely recognized within JPMorgan APAC that 
Referral Hires generally were not subject to the same requirements, workload, and 
expectations as non-referral APAC employees.  Nonetheless, these Referral Hires were given 
the same titles as non-referral employees as well as significant salaries and other benefits.  
JPMorgan APAC employees commented on the lack of capabilities of many Referral Hires, 
with some employees referring to them as “photocopiers.”  Referral Hires were sometimes 
given special consideration regarding work assignments and promotions and protected from 
rigorous work schedules.  For example, in 2008, one senior JPMorgan APAC investment 
banker referred to a Referral Hire as a “protected species requiring [senior management] 
input.  His reporting line to you is accountable but like national service.”   

       16.    JPMorgan APAC investment bankers were made aware of the risks inherent 
in referral hiring under the FCPA and other laws.  In 2006, the head of Junior Resources 
Management (“JRM”) for JPMorgan APAC, a business support team which oversaw the 
hiring and staffing of all interns and junior investment bankers on transactions in the region, 
sent an email to JPMorgan APAC investment bankers regarding “Sons & Daughters” which 
noted that: 

               “As you know, the firm does not condone the hiring of the 
               children or other relatives of clients or potential clients of the 

                                             5 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                                                                                              

               Firm or other people who might be helpful to the Firm for 
               the purpose of securing or potentially securing business for 
               the Firm.  In fact, the firm’s policies expressly forbid this.  
               There are no exceptions.”   

This was further reinforced in 2007 when JPMorgan APAC legal and compliance staff noted 
in a message to employees that for Referral Hires “[t]he firm should not be currently actively 
pitching for any transaction of such client” and “[t]he firm should not be subject to any direct 
regulation of such government authority” making the referral.  In analyzing Referral Hires, 
legal and compliance looked to see that “[t]he candidate should have been through usual 
interview process and feedback from interviewers should be positive.”  However, the Client 
Referral Program frequently did not follow these stated limitations. 

       17.    Based on the recognition of potential FCPA issues in hiring Referral Hires, in 
or about 2006, JPMorgan APAC’s legal and compliance personnel developed a process to 
screen prospective Referral Hires for potential FCPA and other risks including conflicts of 
interest.  As part of this screening process, JPMorgan APAC legal and compliance created a 
“Sons & Daughters” questionnaire to elicit information regarding the potential Referral Hire.  
Under the process as it was intended to work, each requesting banker was required to fill out 
the questionnaire for each specific hire, and then submit that questionnaire to JPMorgan 
APAC legal and compliance staff for review and approval.   

       18.    The “Sons & Daughters” questionnaire sought information in order to screen 
for potential FCPA and other risks from hiring a specific Referral Hire.  The questionnaire 
sought confirmation that the Referral Hire:  (1) went “through the usual application/interview 
process,” (2) had the “necessary qualifications for the position,” and (3) was rated “against 
other applicants for the position.”  The questionnaire also sought information regarding the 
referring client or entity, including whether JPMorgan was “currently working on, or pitching 
for any deal or transaction” with the referring client or potential client, and whether 
“JPMorgan [was] seeking future opportunity to work or develop a relationship with such 
client.”  Finally, the questionnaire sought information from the referring banker on the 
“expected benefit to JPMorgan in employing the candidate.”   

       19.    JPMorgan APAC legal and compliance also imposed restrictions on what 
confidential information Referral Hires were able to access.  As part of the “Sons & 
Daughters” questionnaire review process, JPMorgan APAC legal and compliance made the 
hiring of most Referral Hires conditional on the bankers “walling off” the Referral Hire from 
business directly involving or related to the referring client or entity.  This was designed to 
prevent conflicts of interest and the sharing of sensitive, confidential information regarding 
JPMorgan’s clients, or the competitors of those clients, with the relatives and friends of 
senior officials with those same clients.  In cases in which the referring person was employed 
by a government ministry, Referral Hires were supposed to be walled off from transactions 
involving that ministry.   

       20.    Due to the misconduct of JPMorgan APAC investment bankers and the 
failures of APAC legal and compliance staff, the “Sons & Daughters” questionnaire process 
was an ineffective review that failed to operate as an effective check on potential violations.  
JPMorgan APAC legal and compliance staff did not understand the actual nature and 

                                              6 
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                                                                                             

operation of the Client Referral Program, and did not take adequate steps to fully investigate 
the extent and purpose of the Program during the relevant time period.  This was due in part 
to JPMorgan APAC investment bankers failing to share complete information on the Client 
Referral Program with legal and compliance personnel.  It was also due to a fundamental 
misunderstanding of the Client Referral Program by JPMorgan APAC legal and compliance, 
and a failure to investigate potential issues when they arose.  For example, in 2007 as part of 
the review of Referral Hires, an attorney with JPMorgan’s global legal team conveyed to his 
colleague in JPMorgan APAC that “I thought the Sons & Daughters Program was 
ended….[JPMorgan Global Compliance officers] are telling …[personnel] that this program 
doesn’t work from an FCPA standpoint.  What are your thoughts?”  In response, a JPMorgan 
APAC compliance attorney noted that “‘Sons & Daughters’ is not an active programme to 
solicit connected persons to work for us in the hope of obtaining business.”  Rather, it was 
described as a “filter process” involving a questionnaire and review by the legal staff.  The 
attorney went on to note:  “If we take a Son or Daughter, it is because they have applied for 
an internship like thousands of others, meet objective academic requirements, there are no 
FCPA concerns.  No favours are done.  They get treated like everyone else.”  This JPMorgan 
APAC compliance professional’s understanding was not an accurate description of the Client 
Referral Program at the time.   

                           JPMorgan APAC Control Failures 

       21.    Beginning no later than 2007, JPMorgan APAC investment bankers began 
using the hiring of Referral Hires to assist in obtaining banking business and other advantages 
from senior officials at SOEs, private sector clients, and government agencies.  In order to 
achieve the business objectives of the Client Referral Program, JPMorgan APAC investment 
bankers provided incorrect, misleading, incomplete, or untruthful responses to the “Sons & 
Daughters” questionnaires.  Certain JPMorgan APAC investment bankers used the 
questionnaire to hide the true purpose of the Referral Hire.  Investment banking and legal and 
compliance support personnel frequently assisted the investment bankers with drafting and 
modifying questionnaires that failed to state the true purpose for some Referral Hires.  Draft 
questionnaires that suggested a potential improper benefit from hiring a Referral Hire were 
sometimes edited by bankers and support staff to include responses that would pass scrutiny.  
In addition, JPMorgan APAC support personnel supplied questionnaires with pre-populated 
answers to questions, including for example a standard answer that there was “[N]o expected 
benefit” from hiring a Referral Hire.  The questionnaires were also answered as a matter of 
practice to give the appearance that the Referral Hires went through the non-referral hiring 
process rather than the special Client Referral Program, which was inaccurate.   For these 
reasons, the “Sons & Daughters” questionnaire that was designed to prevent FCPA violations 
was wholly ineffective.  In fact, JPMorgan’s APAC legal and compliance staff did not reject 
a single Referral Hire candidate from 2007 through 2012.   

       22.    JPMorgan APAC legal and compliance personnel did not take adequate steps 
to identify or mitigate the risks of bribery and corruption in approving Referral Hires.  For 
example, in 2006, a JPMorgan APAC paralegal tasked with organizing and submitting 
Referral Hire questionnaires for review informed a JPMorgan APAC attorney that she was 
told by an investment banker that JPMorgan APAC was “now pitching for a … project” from 
a referring client, and that the project “may potentially result from the hiring of [candidate] as 
a summer analyst.  I don’t feel quite comfortable about this and would like to have your 
                                             7 
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

                                                                                              

views.”  The paralegal drafted a memorandum to members of the APAC legal and 
compliance staff, noting that “[w]e will be exposed to a risk of being alleged of bribing [the 
client] for the … project or any other…projects,” especially considering that the candidate 
would not otherwise be hired on her own merits.  The hire was nonetheless approved after 
another JPMorgan APAC investment banker stated that the hire was not in exchange “for 
return of any business from [the client].” 

       23.    JPMorgan APAC support personnel also assisted APAC investment bankers 
in drafting and modifying “Sons & Daughters” questionnaires in order to avoid scrutiny and 
receive compliance approval for specific Referral Hires.  This led to multiple cases of “Sons 
& Daughters” questionnaires being revised to remove references to a specific or implied 
benefit from a client Referral Hire before submitting those questionnaires for final approval.  
For example, in 2010, a JPMorgan APAC investment banker noted in a questionnaire for a 
prospective Referral Hire that JPMorgan was pitching for a role in the client’s forthcoming 
IPO.  Regarding the “expected benefit” from the Referral Hire, he wrote: 

               “It will strengthen our relationship with [client executive] 
               and solidifying [sic] our position as an advisor to him and 
               the IPOs of his companies (expected to be >$500mm in 
               offering size.” 

In response, the JPMorgan APAC paralegal tasked with reviewing and commenting on 
Referral Hire questionnaires noted: 

               “The firm does not condone the hiring of client’s referred 
               person who might be helpful to the firm for the purpose of 
               securing or potentially securing business for the firm.  The 
               above comment is not acceptable from [legal and 
               compliance’s] perspective.    

               Please clarify to what extent the proposed hire will affect our 
               position in our participation of the IPO [sic]?   

               Is hiring of the intern part of any agreement to secure 
               business of the firm?” 

In response to these questions, the investment banker contradicted his prior responses, and 
now replied: (1) “Hiring of this candidate will not benefit the firm”, (2) “It will not affect our 
position”, and (3) “No.”  The JPMorgan APAC attorney reviewing the proposed Referral 
Hire was then told by the paralegal that the investment banker “has confirmed that the 
proposed hire will not affect our position in our participation of the IPO and hiring of the 
candidate is not part of any agreement to secure business of the firm [sic].”  The initial 
answers from the investment bankers were not shared with the JPMorgan APAC attorney, 
and the Referral Hire request was approved. 

       24.    None of the hires made through the Client Referral Program were reviewed or 
assessed alongside normal JPMorgan APAC hires, yet the “Sons & Daughters” 
questionnaires reviewed by legal and compliance noted that the candidates had the “necessary 

                                              8 
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

                                                                                             

qualifications” and were rated well against “other applicants” for the position.  These 
responses were inaccurate, as the Client Referral Program operated separate from JPMorgan 
APAC’s normal hiring program and candidates were hired based on the referring client 
relationship.     

       25.    For Referral Hires that originated in APAC but were employed outside of the 
region, such as New York, JPMorgan APAC bankers typically would not submit 
questionnaires or seek compliance review of the potential hires despite knowledge that such 
questionnaires were part of the controls for hiring Referral Hires.  In such cases, JPMorgan 
APAC’s human resources and legal departments were usually not made aware of the hire.  
Likewise, their counterparts in the jurisdiction in which the Referral Hire was going to work 
(such as New York) were usually unaware of any client referral aspect to the hire.  Further, 
JPMorgan did not always restrict such Referral Hires from working on deals involving the 
referring client because no such instruction came from JPMorgan APAC’s compliance 
department. 

       26.    Beginning in 2009, JPMorgan APAC personnel structured the contracts for 
full-time Referral Hires to withhold the total number of Referral Hires in APAC from other 
parts of the firm and give the appearance of conformity with JPMorgan’s internal, year-end 
global headcount restrictions.  The revised Client Referral Program was designed to give 
offers to Referral Hires from “Jan 15 to Dec 15, thereby avoiding year end count.”  Referral 
Hires were given contracts that would end in mid-December and then a new contract would 
re-start the following January, thus avoiding counting the Referral Hire on JPMorgan 
APAC’s internal, year-end headcount numbers which were reported as of December 31st.  
This allowed JPMorgan APAC to continue to make Referral Hires but not limit the number 
of non-referral junior investment bankers hired by JPMorgan APAC who were capable of 
functioning as junior investment bankers.  In 2010, the JPMorgan APAC employee tasked 
with managing headcount noted he had reached “agreement with [coordinator for Client 
Referral Program] at start of year was [Referral Hires] would NOT cross year end.  we should 
push [coordinator] on that because we specifically agreed to track them this way to create 
additional slots for full time staff [sic].”  The same JPMorgan APAC employee noted that for 
Referral Hires, “[f]rom a budget perspective we keep these [Referral Hires] off balance sheet 
and are supposed to have a maximum of 10 [Client Referral Program] interns at one time on 
contracts that do not cross a year end.”  Another JPMorgan APAC employee discussed 
structuring contracts for Referral Hires so that the contracts would end in December “[i]n 
order to have them NOT counted toward our year end headcount next year...” 

       27.    JPMorgan APAC, including legal and compliance, investment banking, and 
human resources personnel, failed to properly review or stop the Client Referral Program 
until 2013.  At that time, a JPMorgan APAC compliance officer in a newly-created position 
was tasked with reviewing and approving client Referral Hire questionnaires.  In denying a 
request to hire a Referral Hire, he stated that hiring Referral Hires at the request of clients and 
outside of the normal hiring system was impermissible under JPMorgan’s compliance and 
anti-corruption policies.  He further stated that “I’m afraid from an anti bribery [sic] and 
corruption standpoint, we cannot create positions to accommodate client requests….  
Employment within JPMorgan is seen as a significant benefit (in terms of training, 
experience, and improving the resume).”  This effectively ended the Client Referral Program, 
although new Referral Hires continued to work at JPMorgan APAC in the summer of 2013. 
                                             9 
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

                                                                                             

   JPMorgan APAC Investment Bankers Knew That Referral Hires Were Hired to 
                                Obtain or Retain Business 

       28.    JPMorgan APAC investment bankers sought to use the Client Referral 
Program to exchange valuable employment for assistance with obtaining or retaining banking 
business from senior executives with its clients, potential clients, and foreign government 
officials.  This assistance  included the awarding of deals to JPMorgan APAC based in part 
on hiring Referral Hires, non-public information on clients and future deals, influence with 
foreign government officials, introductions and meetings, and other benefits.   

       29.    Over time, senior JPMorgan APAC investment bankers designed a system to 
provide employment to referrals from “decision-makers” or those with the ability to influence 
upcoming investment banking transactions at their clients.  For example, a senior banker 
responsible for overseeing JPMorgan APAC junior banking hiring and staffing, including the 
Referral Hires (“APAC Banker A”), encouraged other bankers to prioritize referral requests 
received from “decision-makers” or those who had the ability to influence an upcoming 
banking deal over less influential individuals.  APAC Banker A acknowledged in 
communications with his colleagues that they should consider whether the hire would bring 
near-term revenue to the firm.  In a 2008 email regarding a Referral Hire request from a 
senior executive with a private sector JPMorgan APAC client in China, APAC Banker A told 
another investment banker seeking his approval for the hire, copying the head of JPMorgan 
APAC investment banking, that: “I am supportive of bringing [the referral candidate] on 
board given what’s at stake… A couple of points to discuss and agree prior to any offer being 
made to [referral candidate]:  how do you get the best quid pro quo from the relationship 
upon confirmation of the offer.”  The banker seeking to make the hire responded “[t]he client 
has communicated clearly the quid pro quo on this hire and the team should start working on 
the [upcoming] IPO asap.”  Although the questionnaire reviewed by compliance relating to 
this hire disclosed that JPMorgan APAC was working on one deal for a company affiliated 
with the referring executive and pitching for another, the questionnaire did not disclose any 
discussion of the “quid pro quo” from this Referral Hire.  Instead, the questionnaire reviewed 
by compliance indicated that there would be “no expected benefit” to the firm from the hire. 

       30.    These senior JPMorgan APAC personnel also understood that client Referral 
Hires were for the most part not qualified on their own merit for the positions they were 
given when compared with non-referral  employees, yet special considerations were taken to 
benefit the business relationship.  For example, in 2010, APAC Banker A wrote to the banker 
who assisted him with hiring and staffing of junior JPMorgan APAC bankers that “we picked 
up a new mandate in Taiwan today – all we have to do is get [referral candidate] a full time 
analyst job at JPM in NY.  Mission impossible?”  In response, the other banker wrote “Can 
try… his napping habit will be an eye-opening experience for our NY colleagues if he gets a 
job.”  APAC Banker A later sent an email titled “client referral” to other investment bankers 
in the United States in September 2010 in which he wrote: “[w]e have a very good [private 
sector] client in Taiwan who has asked that we find an IB analyst role for his son in NY…. 
We are being offered now a [mandate] and the quid pro quo, is an analyst IB job for his 
son… Can we in [an investment banking group in New York] adopt him, or can you 
recommend a safe place for him where he won’t get too scarred.”  After the candidate was 
hired by JPMorgan in New York in October 2010, a JPMorgan APAC banker wrote to his 
colleagues that the Referral Hire was a “happy young man! And his dad will also be very 
                                            10 
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

                                                                                              

pleased.”  In response, another JPMorgan APAC banker noted: “I am sure this will go a long 
way for us in terms of [referring client entity] and [the candidate’s father, a senior executive 
of the entity].”   

       31.    Other JPMorgan APAC investment bankers understood the true purpose of 
the program and the potential benefits to JPMorgan APAC’s business from hiring Referral 
Hires.  The purpose and benefit of Referral Hires was discussed amongst JPMorgan APAC 
investment bankers.  For example: 

                 In 2008, one junior banker wrote to a JPMorgan APAC investment banker 
                   that she had “reconfirmed that [the requested Referral Hire] is very 
                   important to our relationship with [SOE].  [SOE] has a pending placement 
                   subject to market condition, and [referring client] made it clear that 
                   [referral candidate] is our ticket to this mandate.” 

                 In discussing a potential Referral Hire in 2010 from a private sector client, 
                   a senior JPMorgan APAC investment banker wrote to another asking him 
                   to interview a referral candidate, writing: “The last thing I want is we go 
                   slow and they ask another bank and I am sure someone will give him a 
                   full time offer given the mandate up for grabs here.  We can give him an 
                   offer under the new ‘sons and daughters’ one year program…They are 
                   interested.”  The second banker noted “Happy to speak with son asap.  
                   Seen this movie a lot before, we should consider it part of the pursuit 
                   immediately.”  He went on to note “We do way, way, way too little of this 
                   type of hiring and I have been pounding on it with China team for a year.  
                   Let me know if you need me to weigh in at all asap.  Confidential, just 
                   added son of #2 at [Chinese SOE] to my team.  I got room for a lot more 
                   hires like this ([competitor investment bank] has 25).”   

                 In 2010, a senior JPMorgan APAC investment banker wrote to a 
                   colleague regarding a Referral Hire from a private sector client:  “They are 
                   close to mandating banks for their IPO.  We are a strong contender.  Blink 
                   blink nod nod, can we find a place for his son (they have only approached 
                   us in this regard)?” 

       32.    The expected financial benefit to JPMorgan APAC from hiring certain 
Referral Hires was also communicated by JPMorgan APAC investment bankers in certain 
cases to the referring clients and the Referral Hires themselves.  For example, in 2011, a 
Referral Hire wrote to a senior JPMorgan APAC banker regarding his decision to leave 
JPMorgan before the expiration of his employment term because despite his hard work “all of 
my efforts seemed meaningless to you and you tend to judge me solely on the relation part of 
me… I remember when i [sic] first started working here you told me that [other relationship 
hires] all paid the price for their seats on the floor.  Now I had a better understanding of your 
words after getting to know some of the relationship hires on the floor.  I do not think my 
family is in a position to help you to the extent as others did: bring their family business to 
the firm.  Therefore i [sic] decided to leave my head count to those who are more valuable to 
the company.”  This Referral Hire went on to write “regarding [two Chinese SOEs], my 
father would try his best to coordinate the meeting.” 

                                             11 
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

                                                                                             

  JPMorgan APAC Revamped the Client Referral Program in 2009 to Directly Link 
                Referral Hires to New Investment Banking Deal Business 

       33.    Beginning in or about 2009, JPMorgan APAC investment bankers began a 
review of all previously hired Referral Hires to determine the success of the program in terms 
of the “business rationale” for hiring and retaining Referral Hires.  Referring bankers were 
asked to list each client referred hire and to provide the “client affiliation” and “the 
importance of retaining them from a client/revenue standpoint.”   

       34.    In September 2009, a senior JPMorgan APAC investment banker wrote to the 
chief executive officer of JPMorgan APAC that: 

               “One specific item that we may need your help is how to run 
               a better sons and daughters program, which has an almost 
               linear relationship with mandates in China.  People believe 
               [other investment banks] are doing a much better job.  On 
               the other hand, we J.P. Morgan have had a few disas[t]rous 
               cases which I can share with you later.  We have more [lines 
               of business] in China therefore in theory we can accomodate 
               [sic] more ‘powerful’ sons and daughters that could benefit 
               the entire platform.” (emphasis added).   

       35.    Following this email, senior JPMorgan APAC investment bankers on multiple 
occasions discussed reforming the Client Referral Program to improve the ability to obtain 
specific client business using Referral Hires.  Among other things, it was agreed that the 
Client Referral Program would prioritize referral requests from “decision-makers” or those 
with the ability to influence upcoming investment banking transactions.  It was also agreed to 
focus on Referral Hires in situations involving near-term transactions.   

       36.    To that end, in or about September 2009, APAC Banker A wrote to the APAC 
banker assigned to assist him in running the JRM functions (“APAC Banker B”) that he 
“spoke to [a senior JPMorgan APAC investment banker] about referrals.  [W]e want to revisit 
the programme at two levels.”  He wrote that for the one-year Referral Hires, they wanted to 
“plan better” in the areas of “accountability” and “deal conversion or revenue attribution and 
relationship.”  JPMorgan Banker A also noted that for one-year Referral Hires, the hire 
should be made “Jan 15 to Dec 15, thereby avoiding year end count.”  APAC Banker A noted 
that doing this “[w]ould be a clever way to manage all 1 yr [sic] program hires if we could 
align the hiring cycle.  Maybe able to even get more people.” 

       37.    Per these instructions, APAC Banker B created a presentation titled 
“Emerging Asia Client Referral Program (CRP)” in November 2009.  The presentation 
reviewed the “Current state of play” regarding the “full-time referrals program,” and noted:  
“The firm benefits from a CRP to facilitate its business development in China.”  It further 
noted that the current program was “designed to hire employees referred by our key clients 
who may not meet our regular hiring standard… The current program is functional but could 
be further improved to optimize control/management and enhance contribution to business 
generation.”  The presentation noted that “[a]reas for [i]mprovement” for the current program 
included “[m]onitoring referral deal conversion.”  The revised program also sought to 

                                            12 
 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

                                                                                             

prioritize requests from “decision-makers” or those with the ability to influence future, near-
term deals to benefit JPMorgan APAC. 

       38.    This presentation first sought to summarize the success of the then-current 
Client Referral Program.  The presentation tracked certain then-current Referral Hires made 
through the Client Referral Program, and the “Historical deal conversion track record” 
relating to those hires.  The presentation noted deal “[c]onversion” with respect to multiple 
Referral Hires including (1) conversion of a deal with an SOE after referral of a candidate 
from a senior member of a foreign political party; and (2) conversion of a deal with an SOE 
after hiring the daughter of a “Deputy Minister.” The presentation also noted “Work in 
progress” on potential deals involving the “family friend” of the chairman of a Hong Kong 
company and the daughter of a senior foreign government minister. 

       39.    A new aspect to JPMorgan APAC’s Client Referral Program was also 
proposed in this presentation.  Under the heading “Full-time referrals:  Proposed new 
program,” the presentation listed new “Selection [C]riteria” for full-time Referral Hires that 
would include:  

                 “Directly attributable linkage to business opportunity,” and 

                 “Clear accountability for deal conversion and accountability for abuse of 
                  program.”   

       40.    In 2009, after approval by the head of investment banking for APAC, 
JPMorgan APAC implemented the revised Client Referral Program.  The revised program 
was managed by the JRM business support team with input from senior JPMorgan APAC 
investment bankers.  Certain senior bankers were given a “quota” of Referral Hires that could 
be made each year.  Subsequent JRM reports from 2009 through 2012 contained the same 
language regarding the “revised” referral hiring program with the selection criteria of a 
“[d]irectly attributable linkage to business opportunity.”  These presentations were discussed 
with the head of investment banking for JPMorgan APAC and other JPMorgan APAC senior 
executives. 

       41.    The JPMorgan APAC investment bankers who created and ran the revised 
Client Referral Program did not seek a review of the program by the legal and compliance 
staff, or otherwise inform the legal and compliance staff of the nature and purpose of the 
revised Client Referral Program.  JPMorgan APAC personnel continued to provide 
inaccurate or incomplete information to JPMorgan APAC legal and compliance staff in order 
to secure approval for hiring Referral Hires. 

       42.    Under the revised referral hiring program, Referral Hires were given the same 
titles as non-Referral Hires, although they typically were paid less than employees hired 
through JPMorgan APAC’s non-referral hiring programs.  Referral Hires were generally 
hired for a one-year term with limited ability to continue with JPMorgan APAC after the 
conclusion of their contracts.  However, exceptions were made based on business needs.  In 
2011, APAC Banker B wrote to several APAC investment bankers that “[t]he client referral 
program is strictly one year for everyone else unless [the Referral Hires] bring in a new 
profitable deal to justify an extension, otherwise they must move on.”   

                                            13 
 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

                                                                                            

       43.    Beginning by at least 2009, JPMorgan APAC employees tracked investment 
banking deals attributable to entities whose officials had requested Referral Hires.  In or 
about December 2010, JPMorgan APAC investment bankers created “Referral Hires vs 
Revenue” spreadsheets to track revenue from clients whose referrals had been hired by the 
firm.  The spreadsheet included columns listing: (1) type of hire (fixed term versus intern); 
(2) date of hire; (3) a description of the relationship between the Referral Hire and the 
referring client or government official (“daughter of Chairman,” “family friend of… 
Chairman,” “Son of Executive Vice President … of [SOE].”); and (4) “[r]evenue” to the firm 
from those clients. 
        
       44.    In March 2011, as part of this review process, JPMorgan APAC personnel 
estimated that clients who had referred individuals into the Client Referral Program had 
generated more than $14 million in revenue in 2009 and $19 million in 2010, with $21 
million anticipated in the “pipeline” for 2011.   

           JPMorgan APAC’s Client Referral Summer Internship Programs 

       45.    In addition to providing analyst and associate employment opportunities, in 
2009 and 2010 JPMorgan APAC also created summer internship programs to accommodate 
Referral Hires.  Referral Hires were generally not qualified for the regular JPMorgan APAC 
summer internship program; nonetheless, summer internships in the regular program were 
sometimes provided by JPMorgan APAC to Referral Hires.  In order to accommodate more 
client referrals, in 2010 JPMorgan APAC also created an unpaid training program in Hong 
Kong (colloquially referred to as “summer camp”) for Referral Hires seeking summer 
employment or internships with JPMorgan APAC.  The “summer camp” consisted mainly of 
social events, lectures, and classroom speakers.  Although the participants were not employed 
by JPMorgan APAC and were not paid, participants could list the program on their resumes.  
APAC Banker B noted that one senior APAC investment banker said that he could “sleep 
better at night knowing that we now have a structured program to entertain the little 
darlings.”    

       46.    JPMorgan APAC undertook no compliance review of participants in the 
“summer camp.”  However, candidates for the “summer camp” were selected based on 
investment bank client relationships rather than merit.  Further, certain client referrals with 
links to potential revenue were given paid summer internships with JPMorgan APAC rather 
than the opportunity to participate in the “summer camp.”   

       47.    JPMorgan APAC bankers, including APAC Banker B, managed summer 
training Referral Hires to generate potential near-term revenue for the firm.  APAC Banker B 
noted in 2010 that sponsoring bankers “need to make a strong case for their referrals - 
minimum $3m tangible fees sounds like a sensible benchmark.”  A JPMorgan APAC senior 
investment banker also suggested making additional accommodations (such as paying for 
flights) for the children of “SOE clients who are not well paid even at senior levels.”  This 
practice continued, and in 2011 APAC Banker B again noted that the summer training 
program “will most probably follow last year’s convention of only considering clients with 
>$US3 million new revenue contribution for referring candidates into the training program.”   

                                            14 
 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

                                                                                            

    JPMorgan APAC Hired SOE Referral Hires To Assist in Winning or Retaining 
                                         Business 

       48.    Between 2006 and 2013, JPMorgan APAC hired numerous relatives and 
friends of officials with foreign government entities and senior officials at foreign SOEs to 
obtain or retain business for JPMorgan.  These hires include: 

             Beginning in 2005, JPMorgan APAC hired the son of a key executive with a 
              Chinese manufacturing SOE.  The son worked at JPMorgan APAC in various 
              roles from 2005- 2008 and then again from 2010 until 2015.  Another Referral 
              Hire was given a training opportunity in 2009 based on a request from a 
              senior executive of the same SOE.  JPMorgan APAC was awarded an IPO 
              from this SOE in 2006 and further advisory business in 2008.  JPMorgan 
              APAC received net profits for its work for this SOE of more than $32 million. 

             In 2007, JPMorgan APAC hired the relative of a senior official at a Chinese 
              SOE and the relative of a senior official at the government agency which 
              oversaw that SOE.  JPMorgan APAC was working on the IPO for that SOE 
              when it agreed to the hires.  The firm hired one of the Referral Hires while 
              negotiating for a better fee from the SOE for its role in that IPO.  In part as a 
              result of this Referral Hire, JPMorgan APAC received additional net profits of 
              more than $3.3 million. 

             Between 2007 and 2010, JPMorgan APAC made multiple Referral Hires from 
              officials with a Chinese financial SOE.   Referral Hires were hired at the 
              request of senior officials with this SOE, including the chairman and chief 
              financial officer.  JPMorgan APAC won multiple investment banking deals 
              from this SOE from 2007-2010 resulting in net profits of more than $6.5 
              million. 

             JPMorgan APAC hired at least five Referral Hires from 2007 to 2011 from 
              senior officials with another Chinese financial SOE.  This included the hiring 
              of the son of a Chinese government official from the province in which this 
              institution was located at the request of the Chairman of the SOE.  JPMorgan 
              APAC was awarded investment banking business from this SOE in 2008 and 
              2009, with total net profits to the firm of more than $5.8 million. 

             Between 2010 and 2012, JPMorgan APAC hired two Referral Hires at the 
              request of officials with a large Chinese energy-related SOE.    In 2012 and 
              2013, the firm was awarded business from this SOE, including bond 
              issuances, with total net profits of more than $10 million. 

             Between 2007 and 2010, JPMorgan APAC hired two employees and a trainee 
              at the request of officials with a large Chinese transportation SOE.  The 
              referrals were made by the chief executive officer and other key employees 
              with the SOE. JPMorgan APAC was awarded business from this SOE in 2010 
              totaling more than $10 million in net profits. 

                                            15 
 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

                                                                                            

             JPMorgan APAC hired two employees and a trainee referred by officials at a 
              Chinese financial SOE between 2008 and 2012.  The requests were made by 
              the chairman of the SOE and another senior official.  For one of the Referral 
              Hires, his parents were both Chinese government officials at different 
              ministries.  JPMorgan APAC was awarded a role in this SOE’s 2012 IPO and 
              received net profits of more than $2.6 million. 

  Referral Hire Employed in New York In Order to Obtain IPO Roles for JPMorgan 
                                          APAC 

       49.    In 2007, JPMorgan APAC hired the son (“Referral Hire A”) of an executive 
(“Official A”) of an energy related Chinese SOE (“SOE A”) for a summer internship position 
in China based on the request of Official A.  Subsequently, in 2009, the firm hired Referral 
Hire A for a position in its Hong Kong internship program, again upon the request of Official 
A.   

       50.    Before Referral Hire A started his Hong Kong internship, the referring 
JPMorgan APAC banker noted that Official A “was recently promoted to the current position 
and is said to be very close to the president [of SOE A].  Maybe we should use [Official A’s] 
ask to take over the relationship” from a former APAC banker.  The JPMorgan APAC banker 
(“APAC Banker C”) who had taken over responsibility for JPMorgan’s relationship with 
SOE A noted as part of discussions regarding what information to put in the “Sons & 
Daughters” questionnaire that “[w]e are pitching for a couple of M+A deals . . . and we have 
been in constant dialogue for a potential block trade.  Also, we need to establish broad 
relationship with this client as we could provide a broad spectrum of products (corporate, 
commodities) to them.”  APAC Banker C then submitted the “Sons & Daughters” 
questionnaire for Referral Hire A, after being advised by the referring APAC banker that for 
the question regarding potential deals with SOE A, he should  “limit[] this to real pitches only 
to avoid challenges by legal and compliance.” 

       51.    After the hire was approved, APAC Banker C then asked “shall we coordinate 
so I can hook up with his father?  I will be in [Beijing] next week and we actually have some 
meetings with [SOE A] so would be good to do this in time.” The meeting was arranged with 
Official A. 

       52.    During Referral Hire A’s summer internship in Hong Kong, APAC Banker C 
asked Referral Hire A to get non-public information about potential JPMorgan SOE clients 
from SOE A through his father in order to assist JPMorgan APAC in pitching for new 
business.  Referral Hire A did not provide non-public information to APAC Banker C.  Later 
that summer, Referral Hire A was told by APAC Banker C that in order to receive a full-time 
offer from JPMorgan APAC, he would need to “bring in a deal” for JPMorgan APAC.   

       53.    Referral Hire A specifically wanted an analyst position with JPMorgan in 
New York.  Therefore, in the fall of 2009, Official A sought assistance from his friend, 
another senior executive at a Chinese SOE (“Official B”), to help get Referral Hire A a job 
with the firm in New York.  Official B was a senior executive with a large Chinese state-
owned financial institution (“SOE B”).  In 2009, SOE B was in the process of preparing for 
an initial public offering (“IPO”) in Hong Kong that was expected to be lucrative for 

                                            16 
 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

                                                                                             

investment banks working on the transaction.  Official B had significant influence over the 
decision-making as to which firms would be designated to participate in the forthcoming IPO 
of SOE B (“IPO Mandate”).  

       54.    In fall 2009, Officials A and B each sent multiple messages and made 
multiple calls to JPMorgan APAC investment bankers seeking a job with JPMorgan in New 
York for Referral Hire A.  In late 2009 and early 2010, JPMorgan APAC bankers noted that 
Official B kept “pushing” for the hire.  Official B requested that the Referral Hire request be 
kept from JPMorgan APAC bankers involved in the deal.  One senior APAC banker wrote in 
January 2010 that “to avoid any ‘complication,’ [Official B] has asked to keep this 
confidential and particularly away from the ‘[SOE B] pitch team.’ But I have kept [a senior 
banker on the pitch team] in the loop… Would be great if you could give this a push in NY 
….  Many thanks.”   

       55.    Based upon the requests from Officials A and B and the forthcoming IPO 
Mandate, senior JPMorgan APAC investment bankers undertook steps to secure a position 
for Referral Hire A with the firm in New York.  These bankers believed that JPMorgan 
APAC could receive a more significant and lucrative role in the IPO Mandate if the firm 
hired Referral Hire A, and would risk JPMorgan APAC’s position or its entire role in the IPO 
Mandate if they did not. 

       56.    In December 2009, JPMorgan APAC investment bankers sought the 
assistance of a JPMorgan banker in New York who reported to the then-head of JPMorgan 
APAC (“JPMorgan Banker D”) with finding a job for Referral Hire A.  JPMorgan Banker D 
reported back that Referral Hire A was not qualified for a position with the firm in New 
York, causing one of the JPMorgan APAC bankers seeking the hire to note that “Jpm in NY 
won’t give [Referral Hire A] a preference.  Spoke with a few people who know [him].  
Unlikely to pass thorugh [sic] regular process.”  A JPMorgan recruiter in New York noted 
that “[r]elative to other candidates, his technological and quantitative skills were light (this is 
an extremely quantitative position).  We plan on notifying him this week that he will not be 
moving forward in the process.”  Referral Hire A interviewed with multiple groups at 
JPMorgan in New York, and each rejected hiring him despite the client relationship.  
JPMorgan Banker D noted that, according to two JPMorgan groups in New York, “while 
[Referral Hire A] has solid technical skills, his communication and marketing skills as well as 
his overall credentials on other metrics fell short of JPM standards.  Both groups cite these 
deficiencies as reason not to pursue his case further, making the point that is hard to argue, 
that lowering the highly competitive recruitment bar at JPM is not a desirable option.” 

       57.    Despite this negative feedback, in February 2010 the JPMorgan APAC 
investment bankers emailed the then-chief executive officer of JPMorgan APAC and the 
head of human resources for JPMorgan Hong Kong to state they had “reached consensus 
among us to offer [Referral Hire A] a one year fixed term position at [JPMorgan Banker D’s] 
team in our New York office.  We understand that you have been always supportive of this 
hire.  [I]t is time to ask your approval to proceed on that basis.  [Official B] called and sent 
sms to [two JPMorgan APAC bankers] several times to ask the status.  If we can get this hire 
done soon, that will be very helpful.”  The next day, the head of the JPMorgan APAC group 
handling the IPO Mandate noted that he had a meeting with the chairman of another Chinese 
entity at which he learned “[v]ery interesting info re [SOE B]: will launch [IPO Mandate] 

                                            17 
 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

                                                                                            

process just before or just after chinese new year.  Very definitive.  So we should act reg [sic] 
this young guy and place him in [JPMorgan Banker D]’s group.  One year analyst.”  The hire 
was thereafter approved by the chief executive officer of JPMorgan APAC, and Referral Hire 
A began working in New York in 2010 as part of JPMorgan Banker D’s group.   

       58.    In April 2010, JPMorgan APAC was selected for a significant role in the IPO 
Mandate.  In June 2010, a JPMorgan APAC banker sent an email to JPMorgan Banker D 
stating that “I understand from his father, [Official A], that [Referral Hire A] will start today 
in office.  His uncle [Official B] did deliver [SOE B] IPO and his father is helping us on [an 
energy-related] ipo.”  Later in July 2010, an APAC banker noted that “we are on track to 
make [SOE B] the largest IPO ever.”  

       59.    In 2010, JPMorgan APAC investment bankers learned that Referral Hire A’s 
father, Official A, had assisted JPMorgan APAC in securing a mandate from a Chinese 
energy company that was preparing for its own IPO.  In August 2010, Referral Hire A was 
added to JPMorgan APAC’s team working on that IPO.  In November 2010, JPMorgan 
APAC bankers consulted with Official A regarding this IPO pitch.  Later discussions 
regarding the “game plan” included that “[Official A] will help us from the side.”  In 
December 2010, an APAC banker told other senior APAC bankers that Referral Hire A, 
described as the referral from Official B and “the analyst we placed under [JPMorgan Banker 
D]’s team in NY, has played a critical role in helping secure this mandate.  [Referral Hire 
A’]s father is a senior executive at [SOE A].  FYI.”  JPMorgan Banker D responded “He is a 
quietly efficient worker…”   

       60.    In January 2011, a JPMorgan APAC banker emailed the then-CEO of 
JPMorgan APAC regarding Referral Hire A’s application to be transferred to a different 
department at JPMorgan in New York, noting that “[Referral Hire A] (and his family) has 
been instrumental in helping us on both the [SOE B] IPO and [another] IPO.”  He further 
noted that Referral Hire A’s “father is helping us on [other companies] at the moment as 
well.”  The then-CEO of JPMorgan APAC then wrote to another senior banker at the firm to 
ask him to help Referral Hire A find another job within JPMorgan, stating “[h]is Dad is pretty 
important in China and I am happy to keep him on my headcount if you can use him.”  In 
March 2011, the firm then hired Referral Hire A into another position when his initial fixed-
term Referral Hire contract expired. 

       61.    JPMorgan APAC did not inform JPMorgan APAC legal and compliance 
about the 2010 hire of Referral Hire A in New York.  Therefore, a “Sons & Daughters” 
questionnaire was not completed or reviewed.  In July 2010, JPMorgan’s compliance group 
became aware that Referral Hire A had been hired without compliance review or a “Sons & 
Daughters” questionnaire for his 2010 hire.  A JPMorgan compliance officer noted “[c]learly, 
in a perfect world, it would be best if this had gone through another formal review prior to the 
position being offered.  However, since [Referral Hire A] had already been reviewed in the 
past for at least his 2009 internship, I am not sure what value there would be in reviewing 
again at this point in time.”  No additional inquiry was undertaken, and instead JPMorgan 
APAC reviewed the questionnaire that was submitted in 2009 prior to Referral Hire A’s 
Hong Kong internship.  That questionnaire had no reference to SOE B, the IPO Mandate, or 
the other IPO which Official A helped JPMorgan APAC secure.  Although JPMorgan APAC 
legal and compliance had required Referral Hire A to be walled off from pitches involving 

                                            18 
 
---------------------Page 19---------------------

                                                                                             

SOE A (where his father worked) at the time of his summer internship, this was not 
communicated to JPMorgan legal and compliance in New York and nothing was done to 
enforce this restriction even after JPMorgan APAC legal and compliance learned of Referral 
Hire A’s position in New York.  At no point after he was hired in 2010 was Referral Hire A 
walled off from transactions involving either his father, Official A, entities related to SOE A, 
or his father’s friend, Official B, and entities relating to him. 

       62.    JPMorgan APAC participated in the IPO for SOE B in 2010.  For its efforts, 
the firm received net profits of more than $23 million.  In 2010, JPMorgan APAC also 
worked on the IPO for another Chinese SOE which was connected to SOE A, where Referral 
Hire A’s father was an official.  For its efforts on the latter IPO, JPMorgan APAC received 
more than $3.7 million in net profits. 

Referral Hire from Government Ministry In Order to Obtain Favorable Treatment for 
                                        JPMorgan 

       63.    In 2006, a JPMorgan APAC investment banker sought to find a job with the 
firm in New York for the son (“Referral Hire X”) of a deputy minister (“Official X”) at a 
Chinese government agency.  In seeking the hire, a JPMorgan APAC investment banker 
wrote of Official X that “[a]lthough he is now promoted to be a government official, his 
influence remains strong both personally as well as in an official capacity [at the Ministry]… 
[and] a good indepth [sic] relationship with the Ministry will pave the ground for us in many 
large and important industries in China as well as large cap companies, despite the fact some 
of them are ‘independent’ commercial entities, a unique feature of the Chinese/government 
business alliance.” 

       64.    Referral Hire X interviewed for the position in New York but was not selected 
for hire.  He nonetheless received an offer for an analyst position in November 2006 based on 
the referral request.  Referral Hire X then sought to start his employment one month earlier 
than planned.  To do so, Referral Hire X contacted an executive at a Chinese company who 
then contacted a different JPMorgan APAC investment banker about the request.  In 
December 2006, an employee with the firm in New York emailed the JPMorgan APAC 
banker seeking the early start for Referral Hire X that Referral Hire X “did very very poorly 
in interviews – some [managing directors] said he was the worst [business analyst] candidate 
they had ever see [sic] – and we obviously had to extend him an offer… [o]bviously, we will 
need to accommodate due to client pressure, but we’re going to have to handle this very 
carefully.”  In or about mid-2007, Referral Hire X began working as an analyst in Corporate 
Finance in New York on a one-year contract.   

       65.    In May 2008, during Referral Hire X’s first year of work with the firm in New 
York, Official X requested that a JPMorgan APAC investment banker provide his son with 
another job after the expiration of his one-year term.  In June 2008, a JPMorgan APAC senior 
banker sent his supervisor an email in which he stated:  “The father indicated to me 
repeatedly that he is willing to go extra mile to help JPM in whatever way we think he can.  
And I do have a few cases where I think we can leverage the father’s connection…[G]iven 
the above, I’d like to discuss with you and seek your advice/support on how to handle the son 
in NY and leverage the father in China.”   

                                            19 
 
---------------------Page 20---------------------

                                                                                             

       66.    In July 2008, JPMorgan Banker D offered a position in his group to Referral 
Hire X.  After he was hired, JPMorgan Banker D wrote to the JPMorgan APAC banker in 
Hong Kong that “I don’t have the details of the incident but apparently last Friday when I 
was out of the office, [Referral Hire X] sent out an email (which he inadvertently copied to an 
HR Person), where he made inappropriate … remarks.”  In August 2008, JPMorgan Banker 
D wrote that there was a “general consensus among seniors in our group” that Referral Hire 
X was “immature, irresponsible, and unreliable” and that one banker was “no longer will to 
have [Referral Hire X] as part of the pool [of junior analysts on his deals]…there is also 
concern about his reliability on confidentiality of client records/documents which means that 
we may not be able to let him have access to sensitive transactional records/documents.”  
Referral Hire X remained in his position until it was eliminated 10 months later. 

            Hiring of Referral Hire to Initiate Client Relationship with SOE 

       67.    In 2010, JPMorgan APAC began taking steps to hire the son (“Referral Hire 
Z”) of the chairman (“Official Z”) of another large Chinese financial SOE, at his father’s 
request.  Official Z had asked a senior JPMorgan APAC banker to hire his son at the firm 
during an in-person meeting.  In an email to other senior bankers, this APAC banker noted 
“[g]iven the size of the group and the existing and potential business opportunities from this 
group to both FIG [Financial Institutions Group] and GI [group within investment banking], I 
responded to this request positively.  Let’s gather our thought on how we can leverage more 
on this account going forward.” 

       68.    JPMorgan APAC bankers discussed that hiring Referral Hire Z could help the 
firm win future business from Official Z’s SOE entity.  A senior banker wrote in 2010 in 
response to the request to hire the son “[a]gree with [other banker].  [Official Z’s entity] is an 
important client.  We need to help his son that definately [sic] will give us leverage of 
business opportunities for both fig and non fig for jpm.”  The head of FIG within JPMorgan 
APAC’s investment bank, later checked to make sure that JPMorgan had in fact followed 
through and “onboarded” Official Z’s son. 

       69.    Steps were taken to hire Referral Hire Z for a fixed-term position with 
JPMorgan APAC.  The compliance questionnaire for Referral Hire Z noted that his father 
was the CEO of a Chinese SOE and that JPMorgan APAC was in discussions with a 
subsidiary of the SOE for a “potential financing transaction at the moment.”  It also noted that 
JPMorgan APAC intended “to maintain a close relationship with the client.”  The 
questionnaire falsely stated that there was “No expected benefit” from hiring Referral Hire Z.   

       70.    A few weeks after JPMorgan APAC offered  Referral Hire Z a one-year 
position, the same banker who proposed the hire noted to a senior JPMorgan APAC banker 
that the firm had won “a mandate to be sole bookrunner for a USD300mm+ placement of 
[Official Z’s SOE]’s listed subsidiary in HK.  This will be our first transaction for this 
group.”  One year later, JPMorgan APAC was mandated for the IPO for Official Z’s SOE, 
but the firm withdrew from that deal in 2013.  In 2010, JPMorgan APAC also worked on a 
private placement for Official Z’s SOE for which the firm received net profits of more than 
$1.4 million. 

                                               

                                             20 
 
---------------------Page 21---------------------

                                                                                             

                             Legal Standards and Violations 
        
       71.    Under Section 21C(a) of the Exchange Act, the Commission may impose a 
cease-and-desist order upon any person who is violating, has violated, or is about to violate 
any provision of the Exchange Act or any regulation thereunder, and upon any other person 
that is, was, or would be a cause of the violation, due to an act or omission the person knew 
or should have known would contribute to such violation. 
        
                                     FCPA Violations 
                                               
                                  Anti-Bribery Violations 
        
       72.    JPMorgan violated the anti-bribery provisions of the federal securities laws 
by corruptly providing valuable internships and employment to relatives and friends of 
foreign government officials in order to assist JPMorgan in retaining and obtaining 
business.   
        
       73.    As a result of the conduct described above, JPMorgan violated Section 30A of 
the Exchange Act which prohibits any issuer with a class of securities registered pursuant to 
Section 12 of the Exchange Act, or any officer, director, employee, or agent acting on behalf 
of such issuer, in order to obtain or retain business, from corruptly giving or authorizing the 
giving of, anything of value to any foreign official for the purposes of influencing the official 
or inducing the official to act in violation of his or her lawful duties, or to secure any 
improper advantage, or to induce a foreign official to use his influence with a foreign 
governmental instrumentality to influence any act or decision of such government or 
instrumentality.  [15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1]. 
        
                               Books and Records Violations 
        
       74.    JPMorgan violated the books and records provisions of the FCPA in 
conjunction with certain Referral Hires.  Under Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, 
JPMorgan was required to make and keep books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable 
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the issuer.  
JPMorgan APAC’s controls required that investment bankers submit accurate questionnaires 
to compliance for review before client referrals from SOEs and foreign government officials 
could be hired.  Contrary to that requirement, JPMorgan APAC personnel submitted, 
reviewed, and approved inaccurate compliance questionnaires containing false and 
incomplete information which failed to disclose the intended, improper purpose of making 
certain client Referral Hires.  JPMorgan’s internal records also inaccurately reflected the true 
number of client Referral Hires in the APAC region by taking steps to withhold certain 
headcount information relating to Referral Hires.  [15 U.S.C § 78m(b)(2)(A)]. 
 
                                Internal Controls Violations 
        
       75.    JPMorgan violated the internal accounting controls provisions of the FCPA in 
conjunction with certain Referral Hires.  JPMorgan failed to devise and maintain an 
effective system of internal accounting controls.  JPMorgan’s internal accounting controls 

                                             21 
 
---------------------Page 22---------------------

                                                                                              

were insufficiently designed to prevent the corruption risks inherent in the hiring of Referral 
Hires, and therefore inadequate to enforce or effectuate JPMorgan’s referral hiring policy.  
JPMorgan recognized the inherent risks in hiring Referral Hires, yet proceeded with a system 
that failed adequately to address those risks.  The safeguards put in place by JPMorgan 
APAC to minimize compliance and FCPA risks were not effective to curb the true purpose of 
the Client Referral Program.  JPMorgan APAC’s referral hiring questionnaire was designed 
to ensure that Referral Hires were hired based on merit and not for improper purposes.  
However, in practice the Client Referral Program operated as a separate tier of employment 
within JPMorgan APAC where hiring and retention decisions were based on client 
relationships and potential revenue and not employee merit. 
        
       76.    Referral Hires were subject to a completely separate hiring process, and once 
hired their jobs and terms of employment were likewise different than non-Referral Hires.  
The interview and screening process for Referral Hires was perfunctory, with candidates 
receiving an offer based on the perceived strength of the client relationship and prospect for 
future business.  Referral Hires were also generally less qualified than employees hired 
through the non-referral, entry-level hiring program, and once hired the Referral Hires were 
generally not expected to do the same work as non-referral employees in similar positions.   
        
       77.    JPMorgan APAC attempted to put in place protections to mitigate the inherent 
conflicts and FCPA risks in hiring Referral Hires.  However, these protections were 
insufficient to prevent the violations.  While legal and compliance staff were required to 
approve Referral Candidates before they could be hired, in practice they never failed to 
approve a Referral Candidate.  In certain cases, the protections were ignored.  JPMorgan 
APAC bankers sought to have certain Referral Hires work outside of APAC at the request of 
the APAC-based client or prospective client seeking the employment.  These Referral Hires 
did not go through the normal hiring process for that region, and instead were hired based on 
the perceived benefit to JPMorgan APAC from the hire.  In such cases, a compliance 
questionnaire was not completed and therefore no review was made to analyze the potential 
conflicts of interest and FCPA violations inherent in referral hiring.  In cases in which the 
Referral Hire was hired outside of APAC, the conflict of interest prohibitions were not 
imposed or enforced.  This led to Referral Hires being staffed on the deal teams for the 
referring person’s entity, often at the request of the referring person, in direct contravention of 
the conflict of interest rules imposed on the referral hiring program. 
        
       78.    Under Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act issuers are required to 
devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide 
reasonable assurances that (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management’s 
general or specific authorization; (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary (I) to permit 
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting 
principles or any other criteria applicable to such statements, and (II) to maintain 
accountability for assets; (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with 
management’s general or specific authorization; and (iv) the recorded accountability for 
assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is 
taken with respect to any differences. [15 U.S.C § 78m(b)(2)(B)]. 
        

                                             22 
 
---------------------Page 23---------------------

                                                                                           

     Commission Consideration of JPMorgan’s Cooperation and Remedial Ef         forts 
 
       79.    In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered cooperation 
JPMorgan afforded to the Commission staff.  Through its counsel, JPMorgan provided 
thorough, complete, and timely cooperation throughout the investigation.  JPMorgan 
responded promptly to Commission requests for information, retained outside counsel to 
investigate the conduct, and self-reported much of the conduct described herein.  
JPMorgan made timely and thorough document productions and provided frequent 
updates on the status of the company’s internal investigation and the evidence.  JPMorgan 
also made its employees available for interviews upon request, and facilitated the 
interviews of former employees, including facilitating certain interviewees traveling to the 
United States from overseas for interviews with the Commission.  JPMorgan provided key 
document binders and factual chronologies to the Commission staff.  JPMorgan 
responded to all requests for information and documents in a timely and efficient manner. 
        
       80.    The Commission has also considered the significant remediation efforts 
undertaken by JPMorgan to address the risks inherent in client referral hiring.  Prior to the 
start of this investigation, JPMorgan had taken steps to cease the Client Referral Program 
in APAC.  Since the outset of the investigation, JPMorgan has enhanced its anti-
corruption compliance program and hiring practices on a global basis, including:  making 
changes to its Anti-Corruption Policy to further address the hiring of government 
officials’ relatives; requiring that every hire with JPMorgan, including Referral Hires, be 
routed through a centralized human resources application process; establishing a control 
function role for human resources with respect to hiring; requiring that JPMorgan’s anti-
corruption office reviews and approves each hire of a candidate referred by a client, potential 
client, or government official; and instituting procedures and practices for the monitoring and 
auditing of referral hiring.  In addition, JPMorgan enhanced its overall compliance function 
in the APAC region.  JPMorgan also undertook employment actions based upon its findings 
regarding the underlying conduct, and separated from certain employees and made personnel 
changes to remediate in the APAC region. 
        
                              Non-Prosecution Agreement 
                                              
       81.    JPMorgan APAC has entered into a non-prosecution agreement with the 
Department of Justice that acknowledges responsibility for criminal conduct relating to 
certain findings in the Order.   
             
                           Non-Imposition of a Civil Penalty 
                                              
       82.    Respondent acknowledges that the Commission is not imposing a civil 
penalty based upon the imposition of a $72,000,000 criminal fine as part of JPMorgan 
APAC’s settlement with the United States Department of Justice. 
        
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              

                                            23 
 
---------------------Page 24---------------------

                                                                                              

                                            IV. 
                                               
                                       Undertakings 
                                               
       Respondent has undertaken to: 
 
       1.      Report to the Commission staff periodically, at no less than nine-month 
intervals during a three-year term, the status of Respondent’s remediation and 
implementation of compliance measures.  During this three-year period, should Respondent’s 
Board of Directors, senior management, or legal and compliance personnel discover credible 
evidence, not already reported to the Commission staff, that corrupt payments or corrupt 
transfers of value may have been offered, promised, paid, or authorized by Respondent, or 
any entity or person working on behalf of  Respondent, or that related false books and records 
have been maintained, Respondent shall promptly report such conduct to the Commission 
staff.  During this three-year period, Respondent shall: (i) conduct an initial review and 
submit an initial report, and (ii) conduct and prepare at least three follow-up reviews and 
reports, as described below: 
        
           a.  Respondent shall submit to the Commission staff a written report within 180 
               calendar days of the entry of this Order setting forth a complete description of 
               its Foreign Corrupt Practices Act  (“FCPA”) and anti-corruption related 
               remediation efforts to date, its proposals or actions already implemented  
               reasonably designed to improve the policies and procedures of Respondent for 
               ensuring compliance with the FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption 
               laws, and the parameters of the subsequent reviews (“Initial Report”).  The 
               Initial Report shall be transmitted to Paul G. Block, Assistant Regional 
               Director, FCPA Unit, Enforcement Division, Boston Regional Office, U.S. 
               Securities and Exchange Commission, 33 Arch Street, Suite 2300, Boston, 
               Massachusetts 02110.  Respondent may extend the time period for issuance of 
               the Initial Report with prior written approval of the Commission staff. 
                
           b.  Respondent shall undertake at least three follow-up reviews, incorporating 
               any comments provided by the Commission staff on the previous report, to 
               further monitor and assess whether the policies and procedures of Respondent 
               are reasonably designed to detect and prevent violations of the FCPA and 
               other applicable anti-corruption laws (the Follow-up Reports”). 
                
           c.  The first Follow-up Report shall be completed by no later than 270 days after 
               the Initial Report.  The second Follow-up Report shall be completed by no 
               later than 540 days after the completion of the preceding follow-up review. 
               The third Follow-up Report shall be completed by no later than 810 days after 
               the completion of the preceding follow-up review.  Respondent may extend 
               the time period for issuance of the Follow-up Reports with prior written 
               approval of the Commission staff. 
                
           d.  The periodic reviews and reports submitted by Respondent will likely 
               include proprietary, financial, confidential, and competitive business 

                                             24 
 
---------------------Page 25---------------------

                                                                                            

              information.  Public disclosure of the reports could discourage cooperation, 
              impede pending or potential government investigations or undermine the 
              objectives of the reporting requirement.  For these reasons, among others, 
              the reports and contents thereof are intended to remain and shall remain non-
              public, except (1) pursuant to court order, (2) as agreed by the parties in 
              writing, (3) to the extent that the Commission staff determines in its sole 
              discretion that disclosure would be in furtherance of the Commission’s 
              discharge of its duties and responsibilities, or (4) is otherwise required by 
              law. 
         
        2.    Certify, in writing, that Respondent has made good faith efforts to comply 
 with the undertaking(s) set forth above.  The certification shall identify the undertaking(s), 
 provide written evidence of compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by 
 exhibits sufficient to demonstrate compliance. The Commission staff may make 
 reasonable requests for further evidence of compliance, and Respondent agrees to provide 
 such evidence.  The certification and supporting materials shall be submitted to Paul G. 
 Block, Assistant Regional Director, FCPA Unit, with a copy to the Office of the Chief 
 Counsel of the Enforcement Division, no later than sixty (60) days from the date of the 
 completion of the undertakings. 
         
                                            V. 
 
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the 
 sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
        A.     Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent cease and desist 
 from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 
 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B) and 30A of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(b)(2)(A), 
 78m(b)(2)(B), and 78dd-1]. 
 
        B.     Respondent shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay 
 disgorgement of $105,507,668 and prejudgment interest of $25,083,737, for a total 
 payment of $130,591,405 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the 
 general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  
 If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of 
 Practice 600.  Payment must be made in one of the following ways: 
 
        (1)    Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, 
               which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon 
               request; 
 
        (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
               through the SEC Web site at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; 
               or 
 

                                            25 
 
---------------------Page 26---------------------

                                                                                            

          (3)    Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                  States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                  Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to: 
   
                  Enterprise Services Center 
                  Accounts Receivable Branch 
                  HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                  6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                  Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
   

        Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
 JPMorgan as the Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a 
 copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Paul G. Block, Assistant 
 Regional Director, FCPA Unit, Enforcement Division, Boston Regional Office, U.S. Securities 
 and Exchange Commission, 33 Arch Street, Suite 2300, Boston, Massachusetts 02110. 

         
 C.    Respondent shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in Section IV above.  
 
 
        By the Commission. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                          Brent J. Fields 
                                                          Secretary 

                                             26 
   
