---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                    
                                          
                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                        Before the  
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 71770 / March 21, 2014 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No.  3544 / March 21, 2014 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-12105  

                          
                          :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
In the Matter of          :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
                          :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
Brendon P. McDonald,      :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
CPA                       :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                          :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION  
                          
       

      On November 18, 2005,   Brendon P. McDonald, CPA   (“McDonald”) was suspended from   
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against McDonald   pursuant to Rule 
102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                                  This order is issued in response to 
McDonald’s application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 

      In a civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Fred Gold, et al., a final 
judgment was entered against McDonald  permanently enjoining him from future violations of  
Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 10b-5 
thereunder, and from aiding and abetting violations of Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and 
Rules 12b-20 and 15d-1 thereunder.  The Commission’s complaint alleged that  American Tissue, 
Inc. (“American Tissue”) materially overstated its assets, shareholders’ equity, revenue and net 
income in periodic reports filed with the Commission during 2000 and 2001 by capitalizing 
previously recorded expenses as inventory and overval uing finished goods inventory.  The 
complaint further alleged that Arthur Andersen LLP (“Andersen”) issued an unqualified audit 
report on American Tissue’s financial statements for its fiscal year ended September 30, 2000 
                                                 
1
 See  Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2346 dated November 18, 2005.  McDonald 
was permitted, pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after five years upon making certain 
showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                   

though its audit was not conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards  and 
American Tissue’s financial statements were not fairly presented in conformity with generally 
accepted accounting principles.  According to the complaint, McDonald, an experienced senior 
at Andersen, was one of the auditors responsible for the audit failure.  In addition, the Complaint 
alleged that, subsequent to the completion of the audit, McDonald altered audit workpapers in 
preparation for a peer review by another audit firm and he instructed member s of the audit 
engagement team to gather all American Tissue related documents    for shredding , other than the 
“official” work  paper file.   
 
       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review of financ ial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, McDonald    
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  McDonald   is not, at this time,  seeking to 
appear or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to 
appear and practice before the Commission as an independent a   ccountant, he will be required to 
submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will comply with the 
terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, McDonald’s suspension from 
practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in effect until the 
Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard    in accordance 
with the terms of the original suspension order. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”   2
                                                            This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by McDonald, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the November 18, 2005 order 
suspending him from   appearing or  practicing  before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 
and that McDonald  , by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit 
committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, in his practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial 
statements required to be filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  
Therefore, it is accordingly, 
                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides:  
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph 
(e)(1) or (e)(3) of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s 
discretion, be afforded a hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and 
until the applicant has been reinstated by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 
201.102(e)(5)(i). 
 

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                                

 
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Brendon P. McDonald, CPA     is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission 
as an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                             
                                             
                                            Jill M. Peterson 
                                            Assistant Secretary  

                                               3 
