---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                         Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 77224 / February 24, 2016 

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940 
Release No. 4344 / February 24, 2016 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3747 / February 24, 2016 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17130 

                                                  ORDER INSTITUTING 
                                                  ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
In the Matter of                                  PURSUANT TO SECTION 203(f) OF 
                                                  THE INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT 
       David S. Lee, Esq., CPA                    OF 1940 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                  COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
Respondent.                                                                             
                                                  
                                                                

        

                                              I. 

       The Securities and Exchange Commission  (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public  administrative  proceedings  be, and hereby are, instituted  pursuant to 
Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) and Rule 102(e)(3)(i)  of 
                                  1
the Commission’s  Rules of Practice against David S. Lee, Esq., CPA (“Respondent”). 

                                               
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides,  in relevant part, that: 

      

           The   Commission,   with   due   regard   to   the   public   interest   and   without   preliminary 
hearing,   may,   by   order,   ...   suspend   from   appearing   or   practicing   before   it   any  attorney  , 
accountant, … or other professional or expert who has been by name … permanently enjoined by 
any  court  of  competent  jurisdiction,  by reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by 
the  Commission,  from  violating  or  aiding  and  abetting  the  violation  of  any  provision  of  the 
Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations  thereunder. 

                                                
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                II. 

       In anticipation  of the institution  of these proceedings,  Respondent has submitted  an Offer 
of Settlement (“Offer”) which the Commission  has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose 
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission,  or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to 
the Commission’s jurisdiction  over him and over the subject matter of these proceedings, and the 
findings contained in Section III.2 below, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of 
this Order Instituting  Administrative  Proceedings Pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Investment 
Advisers Act of 1940 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s  Rules of Practice, Making Findings, 
and Imposing  Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below. 

                                               III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission  finds that: 

       1.      Respondent, age 58, is a resident of Los Altos, California and is a member of the 
California State Bar.  Respondent was President and a 50% owner of Jim Ward & Associates 
(“JWA”) from 2001 until early 2006.  Respondent was responsible for, among other duties at JWA, 
legal compliance matters, preparing offering materials, property acquisitions, project management, 
and overseeing bookkeeping and accounting personnel.  From 2002 until at least early 2006, JWA 
was investment adviser to Blue Chip Realty Fund LLC (“Blue Chip”) and Respondent was 
associated with JWA.  During the same period, Respondent held an inactive California CPA license. 

       2.      On March 22, 2011,  the Commission  filed a complaint  against Respondent and 
others in Securities and Exchange Commission  v. JSW Financial  Inc., et al. (Civil  Action No. 
11-cv-01356  SC), in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California.   On 
January 20, 2016, the court entered an order permanently  enjoining  Respondent,  by consent, 
from future violations  of Sections 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933,  Section 10(b) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of 
the Advisers Act. 

       3.      The complaint in the District Court action alleged, inter alia, that Respondent, 
together with the other officers of JWA, made materially false and misleading statements to 
investors and potential investors in Blue Chip by misrepresenting that investors’ money would be 
and was being used to make loans secured by first or second deeds of trust on real estate to a 
maximum 65% loan-to-value ratio, and that loans by Blue Chip to affiliates of JWA would not 
exceed 25% of Blue Chip’s total assets.  The complaint alleged that Respondent and the other 
officers knew at least by 2003, or were reckless in not knowing, that the Blue Chip offering 
materials were materially false and misleading because investor money was used primarily to make 
loans to various entities owned and controlled by the officers on an unsecured basis and in excess of 
the maximum 65% loan-to-value ratio.  The complaint further alleged that Respondent and the other 
officers knew at least by 2004, or were reckless in not knowing, that the Blue Chip offering 
materials were materially false and misleading because nearly 90% of Blue Chip’s total assets by 
that time were loans to borrowers controlled by the JWA officers. 

                                                -2- 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       4.      The conduct that is the basis of Respondent’s permanent injunction  arises out of the 
conduct of the business of an investment adviser and occurred while Respondent was associated 
with an investment adviser. 

                                                IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.      Pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, Respondent be, and hereby is: 

               barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal 
               securities dealer, or transfer agent. 

       Any reapplication for association by Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws and 
regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned  upon a number of 
factors, including,  but not limited  to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following:   (a) any 
disgorgement ordered against Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially 
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served 
as the basis for the Commission  order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a 
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission  order; 
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization,  whether or not related to the conduct 
that served as the basis for the Commission  order. 

       B.      Pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Respondent be, 
and hereby is: 

               suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an attorney or 
               accountant. 

       By the Commission. 

        

                                               
                                                    Brent J. Fields 
                                                    Secretary 

                                                 -3- 
