---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 75171 / June 15, 2015 
 
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940 
Release No. 4113 / June 15, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3663 / June 15, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16587 
 
                                              
                                              
                                             ORDER INSTITUTING   
In the Matter of                             ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
                                             PURSUANT TO SECTION  203(f) OF THE 
      Keith E. Rode, CPA ,                   INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940  
                                             AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
Respondent.                                   COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE
                                              
                                                                       
                                             
                                       
 
 
                                           I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to 
Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) and Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of 
                               1
the Commission’s Rules of Practice  against Keith E. Rode, CPA (“Rode” or “Respondent”).   

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
                                                   
                                                II. 
 
        In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s 
jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings contained in 
Sections III.2. and III.4. below, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative 
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below. 
                                                III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
               1.      Rode, 47 years old, resides in Franklin, Wisconsin and is a certified public 
accountant licensed to practice in Wisconsin since 2007 and in California from 1994 to February 
2015.  From 2003 to the present, Rode has been a managing member of GLR Capital Management, 
LLC (“GLR Capital”), the general partner of, and unregistered investment adviser to, the GLR 
Growth Fund, L.P. (the “Fund”), a private investment fund organized as a California limited 
partnership and based in Scotts Valley, California. 
        
               2.      On June 10, 2015, a final judgment was entered by consent against Rode, 
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, 
Sections 10(b) and 26 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and 
Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-8 thereunder, in the civil action entitled 
Securities and Exchange Commission v. GLR Capital Management, LLC, et al., Civil Action 
Number 12-CV-2663-EJD, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of 
California.  
                
               3.      The Commission’s amended complaint alleged that since at least 2005, 
Rode’s business partner, John A. Geringer (“Geringer”), raised in excess of $60 million from 
investors by misrepresenting the Fund’s performance and strategy.  The amended complaint further 
alleged that beginning in or around April 2009, Rode became aware of Geringer’s 
misrepresentations and thereafter, Rode induced investors to rollover their investments and add to 
their investments by preparing and mailing false account statements to investors.  The amended 
complaint also alleged that the account statements Rode sent to investors falsely claimed that the 
Fund investments were “SEC Approved.”  
        

                                                                                                                                                             
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
                                                 2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
               4.      On December 15, 2014, Rode pleaded guilty to one count of mail fraud in 
violation of Title 18 United States Code, Section 1341 before the United States District Court for 
the Northern District of California, in United States v. Keith Rode, Criminal Action Number CR-
12-0888-EJD. 
        
               5.      The count of the criminal indictment to which Rode pleaded guilty alleged 
that Rode engaged in a scheme to defraud Fund investors by sending through the United States 
Postal Service a misleading investor interest statement to a Fund investor. 
 
                                                IV. 
                                                  
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Rode’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
   A.  Pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, that Respondent Rode is barred from 
       association with any investment adviser, broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, 
       municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating organization. 
 
       Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws 
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of 
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following:  (a) any 
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially 
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served 
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a 
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order; 
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct 
that served as the basis for the Commission order. 
        
   B.  Pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Respondent Rode is 
       suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
 
                                                     Brent J. Fields 
                                                     Secretary 

                                                 3  
