---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 77717 / April 26, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3770 / April 26, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17227 
 
                                             ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE -AND-
In the Matter of                             DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
                                             SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
      CABELA’S                           EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING 
                                            FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE -
      RALPH W. CASTNER, CPA                  AND-DESIST ORDER   
 
Respondent s. 
 
       
                                           I.  

       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Respondents Cabela’s Incorporated (“Cabela’s”) 
and Ralph W. Castner, CPA (“Castner”).   
                                             
                                           II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have each submitted 
Offers of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for 
the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondents consent 
to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                  III. 

                                                                                     1
        On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds       that:    

                                              Summary 

        Cabela’s is a specialty retailer and direct marketer of hunting, fishing, camping, and related 
outdoor merchandise headquartered in Sidney, Nebraska.  In January 2012, Cabela’s entered into a 
new intercompany agreement (“ICA”) with its wholly-owned bank subsidiary, World’s Foremost 
Bank (“WFB”), that increased the amount WFB paid to Cabela’s each quarter for WFB’s use of 
the company’s intellectual property and trademarks and for the cost of bank promotions relating to 
the Visa credit card that WFB issued (the “promotions fee”).  Contrary to Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) and statements in Cabela’s periodic filings for each quarter and 
fiscal year-end for 2012, Cabela’s failed to eliminate the intercompany promotions fee in preparing 
its consolidated financial statements.  Cabela’s failure to comply with this GAAP requirement 
resulted in an understatement of merchandise costs and a corresponding understatement of 
financial services revenue on the company’s consolidated income statement.  This in turn increased 
Cabela’s merchandise gross margin percentage, a key company-specific financial metric that 
signaled the profitability of the company and was referenced by the company in earnings releases 
and analysts calls.  The non-elimination of the promotions fee contributed approximately 47% to 
100% to a reported year-over-year increase in the metric for the first through third quarters and 
               2
year-end 2012.    Cabela’s description of the reasons for the year-over-year increase in merchandise 
                                      3
gross margin percentage in its filings  and its earnings releases failed to disclose the role that the 
promotions fee played in  the year - over - year increase.  Th is resulted in materially misleading 
financial disclosures in the company’s 2012 MD&A and earnings releases that were reinforced by 
Cabela’s incorrect statements in its periodic filings that “[a]ll intercompany accounts and 
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.”  During the relevant period, Castner was 
Cabela’s chief financial officer (“CFO”).  He was aware of the contribution of the promotions fee 
to Cabela’s reported merchandise gross margin percentage, and he made the decision not to 
disclose it because of his stated view that the associated promotional costs incurred by Cabela’s 
offset the impact of the promotions fee on the quarterly increase.  It was materially misleading for 
Cabela’s and Castner not to disclose the impact of the promotions fee on the year-over-year 
increase in merchandise gross margin percentage each quarter in 2012. 
 
 
        In the third quarter of 2012, Cabela’s also failed to account properly for various other items 
in conformity with GAAP.  These accounting errors increased net income for that quarter.  Castner 

                                                 
1
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not binding 
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
 
2
 Merchandise gross margin is defined in Cabela’s 2012 Form 10-K as merchandise sales less the costs of related 
merchandise sold and shipping costs.  Cabela’s used the terms merchandise gross margin and merchandise gross 
profit interchangeably.  Merchandise gross margin percentage reflects Cabela’s gross profit as a percentage of its 
merchandise sales.   

3
 Cabela’s discussed merchandise gross margin percentage in its Management’s Discussion and Analysis 
(“MD&A”). 
 
                                                   2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

was not involved directly in the accounting failures in the third quarter of 2012 and the underlying 
accounting decisions were not reported to Castner.    
         
                                           Respondents 

       1.      Cabela’s is a Delaware corporation, based in Sidney, Nebraska, and a specialty 
retailer and direct marketer of outdoor merchandise.  Cabela’s became a public company in 2004.  
Cabela’s stock is registered with the Commission under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and 
trades on the NYSE (Symbol: CAB).  
        
       2.      Castner, CPA, age 52, resides in Sidney, Nebraska.  Castner has been employed by 
Cabela’s since 2000 and has served as its CFO since 2003.   He has been a licensed CPA in 
Nebraska since 1985.  His CPA license has been inactive since 2000.  Before joining Cabela’s, 
Castner served in various finance positions with First Data Corporation from 1990 to 2000 and was 
an auditor with Touche Ross & Co. from 1985 to 1990. 
        
                    Cabela’s Failure to Disclose the Impact of the Promotions Fee 

       3.      Since the formation in 2001 of WFB, Cabela’s wholly-owned bank subsidiary, the 
operating relationship between Cabela’s and WFB has been governed by an ICA.  As part of that 
relationship, WFB issues and manages Cabela’s Club Visa credit card, which serves as Cabela’s 
primary customer loyalty rewards program.  Although the ICA has been amended several times 
since its inception, the ICA generally provides for WFB to compensate or reimburse Cabela’s for 
WFB’s use of the company’s intellectual property and trademarks and the cost of bank promotions 
– e.g., club card points, merchandise discounts, and shipping discounts.  The reimbursement 
provided for in the ICA is called a promotions fee.  Up until January 2012, WFB paid Cabela’s a 
fixed promotions fee of $2.3 million annually. 

       4.      Effective January 1, 2012, Cabela’s entered into a new ICA with WFB.  Under the 
new ICA, the promotions fee was calculated based on the charge volume on Cabela’s Club Visa 
credit cards.  If customer charges were greater than $11 billion, WFB paid a fee to Cabela’s of 
0.10% of the charges.  If customer charges were less than $11 billion, the fee was 0.05% of the 
charges.  Because customer charges exceeded $11 billion in 2012, WFB paid to Cabela’s 0.10% of 
the charges or approximately $15.8 million in 2012.  The fee was paid quarterly through 
intercompany accounts. 

       5.      Under the new ICA, Cabela’s recorded the promotions fee as a reduction of WFB’s 
revenue and a decrease in cost of merchandise sales for Cabela’s.  Under GAAP, intra-entity 
                                                                                       4
transactions must be eliminated in the preparation of consolidated financial statements.  
Specifically, Cabela’s consolidation entries should have increased WFB revenue and Cabela’s 
merchandise cost of sales by the amount of the fee each quarter in order to eliminate the impact of 

                                                 
4
 ASC 810-10-45 requires that “in the preparation of consolidated financial statements, intra-entity balances and 
transactions shall be eliminated.  This includes intra-entity open account balances, security holdings, sales and 
purchases, interest, dividends, and so forth … [A]ny intra-entity profit or loss on assets remaining within the 
consolidated group shall be eliminated; the concept usually applied for this purpose is gross profit or loss.” 

                                                 3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

the promotions fee.  Cabela’s also stated in each of its periodic filings from 2012 through the first 
quarter of 2014 that “[a]ll intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in 
consolidation.”  Contrary to GAAP and its representations in its 2012 periodic filings, Cabela’s 
failed to eliminate the financial impact of the promotions fee in its consolidated financial 
statements.  As a consequence, Cabela’s income statement understated both financial services 
revenue and merchandise costs during that period.  Castner knew all intercompany accounts 
needed to be eliminated in consolidation. 

       6.      Cabela’s error in failing to eliminate the promotions fee in consolidation had a 
material positive impact on Cabela’s merchandise gross margin percentage.  Merchandise gross 
margin percentage is a key company-specific financial metric signaling the profitability of the 
company on the sale of its product and is highlighted by Cabela’s in its periodic filings and 
earnings releases.  Cabela’s calculated this measure by subtracting merchandise costs from 
merchandise revenue and then dividing that number by total merchandise revenue.  Because 
Cabela’s merchandise cost was reduced each quarter by the promotions fee, the merchandise gross 
margin percentage was overstated on a gross basis by approximately 50 to 70 basis points (“bps”) 
                                                              5
(or .5% to .7%) from 2012 through the first quarter of 2014.   

       7.      Cabela’s focused the investment community on changes in its merchandise gross 
margin percentage year-over-year.  The most dramatic year-over-year increase in merchandise 
gross margin percentage was in 2012 because the 2012 quarters were compared to 2011 quarters 
when the fee was substantially lower.  In fact, the promotions fee contributed approximately 47% 
to 100% of the year-over-year increase in the merchandise gross margin percentage for each 
                                       6
quarter in 2012 and the 2012 year end.    Analysts reported on Cabela’s merchandise gross margin 
percentage increase and many analysts cited to the merchandise gross margin percentage as a basis 
for a favorable view of the company during 2012. 

       8.      Cabela’s merchandise gross margin and merchandise gross margin percentage were 
not separately delineated in the company’s financial statements, but they were discussed in its 
MD&A in its quarterly filings, in earnings releases, and on earnings calls.  Specifically, in the 
MD&A section of each of its periodic filings from first quarter 2010 through year-end 2012, 
Cabela’s reported on its progress in meeting strategic initiatives identified in 2010 in its long term 
strategic plan commonly referred to as “2012 Vision.”  One of the initiatives was to improve 
merchandise gross margin or merchandise performance by 200 to 300 bps or 2-3% from 34.6% in 
2009 to at least 36.6% by year-end 2012.  In each of its periodic filings in 2012, Cabela’s listed the 
primary contributors to the increase year over year in merchandise gross margin percentage.  
Cabela’s typically repeated these items in its quarterly earnings releases during 2012 which were 
filed with the Commission in Forms 8-K. 

                                                 
5
 Cabela’s failed to disclose the impact of the promotions fee on the merchandise gross margin percentage until the 
second quarter of 2014 when the company determined that the non-elimination of the promotions fee in the 
consolidated financial statements was an error.  In Cabela’s second quarter 2014 Form 10-Q, Cabela’s began 
eliminating the promotions fee in its consolidated financial statements on a going forward basis.   
 
6
 The impact of the fee on the year- over - year comparison became less significant in 2013 when comparing the 
promotions fee paid by WFB to Cabela’s in 2013 to 2012 because the calculation for both years contained the 
increased fees, $17.6 million and $15.8 million respectively.   
                                                  4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       9.      Cabela’s failed to disclose in the MD&A of each periodic filing and its quarterly 
earnings releases in 2012 the material contribution of the promotions fee to the quarterly 2012 
increases in the merchandise gross margin percentage.  Moreover, because the filings incorrectly 
stated that intercompany transactions had been eliminated in consolidation, investors were not 
aware that an intercompany payment was responsible for a material part of the improvement in the 
key financial metric. 

       10.    In preparation for the earnings call for the first quarter 2012, Castner was provided 
with an earnings release report (“ER Report”) describing the factors that contributed to that 
quarter’s increase in merchandise gross margin.  In Q1 2012, Cabela’s merchandise gross margin 
percentage increased to 34.5%, up from 33% in Q1 2011, or 150 bps year-over-year.  The report 
showed that the promotions fee was responsible for 70 of the 150 bps increase year over year 
(almost half of the increase).  If the promotions fee had been eliminated in consolidation, Cabela’s 
would have only reported an 80 bps increase in the merchandise gross margin percentage year over 
year. 

       11.    In the first quarter 2012, Castner made the decision not to disclose the effect of the 
promotions fee in the first quarter 2012 Form 10-Q and earnings release and rejected proposed 
language disclosing the impact of the promotions fee on the metric for inclusion in filing because 
of his stated view that the associated promotional costs incurred by Cabela’s offset the impact of 
the promotions fee on the quarterly increase.  Because Castner rejected disclosure in the first 
quarter of 2012, the issue did not come up again and Cabela’s continued not to disclose the impact 
of the promotions fee on the reported merchandise gross margin percentage until it filed its second 
quarter Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2014. 

       12.    In Cabela’s first quarter 2012 Form 10-Q, Cabela’s highlighted in MD&A that the 
merchandise gross margin as a percentage of merchandise revenue was increasing, noting that it 
“increased 150 bps to 34.5% in the three months ended March 31, 2012” comparative year over 
year.  In the filing, Cabela’s also stated that “[t]his increase was primarily attributable to better 
inventory management, . . . improvements in vendor collaboration, and advancements in price 
optimization . . .  .”  Cabela’s failed to mention that the promotions fee was responsible for 70 bps, 
or almost one-half, of the merchandise gross margin percentage increase year over year.  

       13.    Cabela’s earnings release for the second quarter 2012 stated that “Merchandise 
                                                                                              7
margin increased 70 basis points [or .7%] to 37.4%, the highest level in more than five years.”   
Cabela’s claimed in the release that the increase was attributable to ‘[o]ngoing focus on Cabela’s 
branded products, improved in-season and pre-season planning, and greater vendor collaboration.”  
The ER Report for the second quarter that Castner received in preparation for the earnings call, 
however, showed that the promotions fee contributed 78 bps or 100% of the increase to the metric 
year over year.  Without the promotions fee, Cabela’s would have reported no change in its 
merchandise gross margin percentage year over year for the quarter.   Cabela’s made similar 
misstatements and omissions in the second quarter 2012 Form 10-Q.   

                                                 
7
 Cabela’s second quarter 2011 merchandise gross margin percentage was 36.7%. 

                                                 5  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

        14.     Cabela’s earnings release for the third quarter stated that “Merchandise gross 
margin increased 130 basis points to 37.2%.  This is the sixth consecutive quarter of merchandise 
                        8
margin improvement.”   Both the earnings release and the Form 10-Q attributed the increase to an 
“[o]ngoing focus on Cabela’s branded products, improved in-season and pre-season planning, and 
greater vendor collaboration …” which “overcame strong sales of firearms and ammunition, which 
had a 60 basis point negative impact on merchandise gross margin.”  The third quarter ER Report 
that Castner received, however, showed an increase of 1.25% year over year for the third quarter 
(rounded up to the reported 130 basis points increase) to which the promotions fee contributed 66 
basis points, or over one-half of the increase. 

        15.     Moreover, Cabela’s 2012 Form 10-K, addressing year-end rather than quarterly 
results, stated, “our merchandise gross margin as a percentage of merchandise revenue increased 
70 basis points to 36.3% in 2012 compared to 35.6% in 2011.”  For the year 2012, the promotions 
fee contributed approximately 50 basis points to the 70 basis point year-over-year increase.  The 
Form 10-K attributed the increase to various factors that did not include the promotions fee. 

       Financial Statement, Accounting, and Disclosure Failures in Third Quarter 2012 

        16.       In the third quarter 2012, Cabela’s failed to account properly for several items as 
required under GAAP in its financial statements.  These errors increased Cabela’s third quarter 
2012 net income by approximately $2.02 million or 4.72%.  

        17.     After the close of the third quarter books, Cabela’s discovered an error in the 
calculation of Cabela’s current quarter state income tax expense.  The correction of this tax error 
would have increased third quarter income tax expense by approximately $674,000.  Instead of 
correcting the tax error, Cabela’s made an adjustment to offset the additional income tax expense 
by increasing the portion of its revenue characterized as “indefinitely invested foreign earnings” 
                                                                                               9
by $5 million, which had the effect of reducing tax expense by approximately $674,000.            Under 
GAAP, the presumption that all undistributed earnings of      a foreign subsidiary will be transferred 
to the parent entity generating a deferred tax expense for the anticipated repatriation may be 
overcome if the subsidiary has invested or evidences an intent      and ability to  re invest the 
undistributed earnings indefi  nitely  , pursuant to ASC 740 -30 -27 -17.  Cabela’s did not have the 
requisite support for changing (increasing) the amount of indefinitely reinvested foreign earnings 
as of the end of the third quarter, which is required under GAAP.  Because Cabela’s 
inappropriately offset its income tax expense, it should have corrected the state income tax error 
in the third quarter by recording an expense of $674,000 in its financial statements.  This error 
resulted in a $674,000 decrease in income tax expense and an increase in Cabela’s third quarter 
net income. 

                                                 
8
 Cabela’s third quarter 2011 merchandise gross margin percentage was 35.9%.  

9
 “Indefinitely invested foreign earnings” are undistributed earnings of a foreign subsidiary that will not be repatriated 
to the U.S. parent in the foreseeable future.  Increasing the amount of indefinitely reinvested earnings has the effect of 
providing a foreign tax benefit.  The foreign tax benefit results from including lower foreign taxes in the consolidated 
income tax expense without an additional deferred tax expense due to the incremental U.S. taxes that will occur upon 
repatriation (in cases where the U.S. tax rate is higher than the foreign tax rate).   
 
                                                    6  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

       18.    The quarterly calculation of WFB’s allowance for loan loss reserve, the reserve 
for doubtful credit card receivables, was based on two components – a model reserve and a 
discretionary management adjustment in which management considered general economic and 
business conditions affecting key lending areas, credit concentration, changes in origination and 
portfolio management, and credit quality trends.  In the third quarter 2012, WFB changed the 
way it determined the pool of delinquent loans underlying the management adjustment by 
removing from the delinquent pool accounts with credit scores of 691 and above (the loans less 
likely to be delinquent).  In calculating the adjustment based on this new pool, WFB used the 
wrong loss rate.  Contrary to GAAP, WFB initially calculated the loss rate for the revised pool 
(19%) but chose to use the lower rate (17.8%) that it had used when the pool included the less risky 
                                                                  10
accounts as the difference was deemed immaterial to the reserve.       This action resulted in an 
under -accrual of the reserve by $367,784 and a   positive impact on net income of $ 248,990  . 

       19.     Cabela’s historically booked receivables for overpayments to vendors.  The 
potential overpayments were first identified by an accounts payable examination company.  They 
were then verified by Cabela’s, approved by various departments within Cabela’s for collection, 
and then submitted to the vendor to provide it with the opportunity to object to Cabela’s 
assessment of the overpayment.  The amount of the receivable booked by Cabela’s for an 
overpayment depended on where the overpayment was in the lifecycle of investigation.  Vendor 
overpayment accruals ranged from 0% to 100% of the amount of the overpayment identified, 
with claims newly submitted to a vendor on the low end of the range and overpayments approved 
by the vendor for payment on the high end of the range.  In the third quarter, Cabela’s accrued a 
receivable for the “submitted” category of overpayment, the category in the earliest stage of the 
lifecycle in which the accounts payable examination company had just identified the potential 
overpayment.  Cabela’s had historically accrued the submitted category at 0% because Cabela’s 
had not done any work to assess the validity of the claims nor determined whether to seek 
reimbursement from the vendors if the claims appeared to be valid.  Instead, in the third quarter 
of 2012, Cabela’s accrued 73% of the items in the submitted category, increasing the vendor 
receivable from $547,214 to $939,271.  The 73% was simply based on the number of vendors in 
the prior year from which Cabela’s had successfully collected overpayments with no regard to the 
amounts collected.  Cabela’s did not have sufficient evidence as of the third quarter to support its 
claim to an asset for the submitted category.  Because an insufficient evaluation of the claims had 
been performed to determine if the claims were valid or if the counterparty would pay, it was 
                                                           11
improper to accrue the $392,077 for the submitted claims.      This error decreased cost of goods 
sold  by $392,077  and increased net income by  $265 ,436 . 

       20.     In the third quarter of 2012, Cabela’s excluded from the pool from which 
Cabela’s calculated its general obsolescence reserve guns that had been specifically designed to 
                      th
celebrate Cabela’s 50  anniversary in business.  The purpose of Cabela’s obsolescence reserve 

                                                 
10
  The ASC 250-10-20 Glossary defines an “Error in Previously Issued Financial Statements” as “an error in the 
recognition, measurement, presentation, or disclosure in financial statements resulting from mathematical mistakes, 
mistakes in the application of generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), or oversight or misuse of facts that 
existed at the time the financial statements were prepared.” 

11
  ASC 250  -10- 20.   See  fn 11.  

                                                  7  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

was to reduce Cabela’s merchandise inventory to lower of cost or market.  Cabela’s obsolescence 
reserve was a general reserve for all items in inventory.  Cabela’s written obsolescence reserve 
procedures acknowledged that the obsolescence pool used to calculate the reserve included items 
that would not be sold below cost and vice versa.  No inventory had previously been removed 
                                       th
from the pool.  The removal of the 50  anniversary guns totaling $1.4 million from the obsolete 
inventory pool was done without any analysis of overall inventory levels, but instead based on the 
                 th
belief that the 50  anniversary guns would not be sold below cost.  The impact of removing the 
                  th
$1.4 million of 50  anniversary guns was to reduce the obsolescence reserve by $327,000.  GAAP 
requires that the reserve must be supported by well-documented analyses and applied 
                                    12
consistently from period to period.     Because Cabela’s changed the pool of inventory in its 
                                                                                   13
obsolescence reserve without sufficient analysis, this was an error under GAAP.         This  error 
decreased the cost of goods sold  by $327,000   and increased net income by $   221,379  . 

       21.     In the third quarter 2012, Cabela’s booked an $899,607 receivable correcting an 
earlier error relating to the overpayment of sales taxes that occurred and was quantified in a prior 
period.  Cabela’s had previously calculated the amount of the correction and should have booked it 
in a prior period.  As a result of this error, Cabela’s incorrectly recognized in its third quarter 
financial statements an $899,607 increase to revenue, which resulted in an increase to net income 
             14
of $609,034.   

                         Books, Records, and Lack of Internal Controls 

       22.    Cabela’s improperly recorded its intercompany accounts and transactions, cost of 
sales, WFB’s revenue, various receivables and reserves, and tax obligations, and its books, records 
and accounts did not, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect its transactions and 
dispositions of assets. 

       23.    Cabela’s failed to implement internal accounting controls relating to its 
intercompany accounts and transactions; cost of sales; WFB’s revenue; and various receivables, 
reserves, and tax obligations which were sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that 
transactions were recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements in 
accordance with GAAP. 

                                       Violations by Cabela’s  

       24.    As result of the conduct described above, Cabela’s violated Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13, and 12b-20 thereunder, which require every issuer of a 
security registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act file with the Commission 
information, documents, and annual and quarterly reports as the Commission may require, and 

                                                 
12
  ASC 330 requires that inventory be maintained at the lower of cost or market and that the methodology utilized in 
assessing impairments be applied consistently from year to year. 
 
13
  ASC 250  -10- 20.   See  fn  11.  
 
14
  ASC 250  -10-S99 states “where there is little cost or delay involved in correcting a misstatement, failing to do so is 
unlikely to be ‘reasonable.’” 
                                                  8  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

mandate that periodic reports contain such further material information as may be necessary to 
make the required statements not misleading. 

       25.    As a result of the conduct described above, Cabela’s violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) 
of the Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to make and keep books, records, and 
accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their transactions and 
dispositions of their assets. 

       26.    Lastly, as a result of the conduct described above, Cabela’s violated Section 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, which requires all reporting companies to devise and maintain a 
system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP 
and to maintain accountability for assets. 

                                     Violations by Castner 

       27.    As result of the conduct described above, Castner caused Cabela’s violations of 
Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13, and 12b-20 thereunder relating to the 
failure to eliminate the intercompany promotions fee in preparing its consolidated financial 
statements, which require every issuer of a security registered pursuant to Section 12 of the 
Exchange Act file with the Commission information, documents, and annual and quarterly 
reports as the Commission may require, and mandate that periodic reports contain such further 
material information as may be necessary to make the required statements not misleading. 

       28.    As a result of the conduct described above, Castner caused Cabela’s violations of 
Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act relating to the failure to eliminate the intercompany 
promotions fee in preparing its consolidated financial statements, which requires reporting 
companies to make and keep books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately 
and fairly reflect their transactions and dispositions of their assets. 

       29.    Lastly, as a result of the conduct described above, Castner caused Cabela’s 
violations of Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act relating to the failure to eliminate the 
intercompany promotions fee in preparing its consolidated financial statements, which requires all 
reporting companies to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to 
provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of 
financial statements in accordance with GAAP and to maintain accountability for assets. 

                                               IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 

       A.      Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent Cabela’s cease and desist 
from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 
and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder.   

                                                9  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

       B.      Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent Castner cease and desist 
from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 
and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder. 

       C.      Within 10 days of the entry of this Order:  

               (1)    Respondent Cabela’s shall pay a civil money penalty in the amount of 
                      $1,000,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the 
                      general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 
                      21F(g)(3).  If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue 
                      pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717. 

               (2)    Respondent  Castner  shall  pay  a  civil  money  penalty  in  the  amount  of 
                      $50,000  to  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  for  transfer  to  the 
                      general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 
                      21F(g)(3).  If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue 
                      pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717. 

       D.      Payments must be made in one of the following ways:   

               (1)    Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, 
                      which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon 
                      request;  

               (2)    Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  

               (3)    Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  

                      Enterprise Services Center 
                      Accounts Receivable Branch 
                      HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                      6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                      Oklahoma City, OK 73169 

       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
either Cabela’s or Castner as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these 
proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Thomas J. Krysa, 
Associate Regional Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 
1961 Stout Street, Suite 1700, Denver, Colorado 80294-1961.   

       E.      Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be 
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To 
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that in any Related Investor 
Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or reduction of 

                                               10   
---------------------Page 11---------------------

any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondents’ payment of a civil 
penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset").  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a 
Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that they shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order 
granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of 
the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be 
deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil 
penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" 
means a private damages action brought against either Respondent by or on behalf of one or more 
investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the 
Commission in this proceeding. 

                                                V. 

       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by 
Respondent Castner, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or 
other amounts due by Respondent Castner under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent 
order, decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the 
violation by Respondent Castner of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued 
under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 

        
 

        By the Commission. 

 

 
 
                                                     Brent J. Fields 
                                                     Secretary 

                                                11   
