---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 
                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 77431 / March 23, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3759 / March 23, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17177 
 
                                             ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE -AND-
In the Matter of                             DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
                                             SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
      NOVARTIS AG,                           EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING 
                                             FINDINGS,  AND IMPOSING A CEASE -
Respondent.                                  AND-DESIST ORDER  
 
 
                                            I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, 
instituted pursuant to 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against 
Novartis AG (“Novartis” or “Respondent”). 
                                             
                                           II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making 
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
 
 
 

                                            1 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                III. 
 
                                                                                 1
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that: 
 
       1.      These proceedings arise out of violations of the books and records and internal    
accounting controls provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (the "FCPA") by 
respondent  Novartis AG ("Novartis") concerning its pharmaceutical operations in China.      
 
       2.      From at least 2009 to 2013, certain employees and agents of Novartis 
subsidiaries conducting business in China engaged in transactions and provided things of value 
to foreign officials, principally healthcare professionals ("HCPs"). These payments took varied 
forms and were intended to influence the HCPs and thereby increase sales of Novartis 
pharmaceutical  products.  Employees and managers  in the involved subsidiaries attempted to 
conceal the true nature of the transactions through the use of complicit third parties and by 
improperly  recording the relevant  transactions  on the books and records of the respective 
subsidiaries, which were consolidated in   the financial reports of Novartis.   Examples include 
improperly  recording the payments  as legitimate expenses for travel and entertainment, 
conferences, lecture fees, marketing events,   educational seminars, and medical studies.  
Novartis also failed to devise and maintain an effective   system of internal  accounting controls 
or an effective anti-corruption  compliance  program. 
 
        3.     As a result of this conduct, perpetrated by employees and agents of Novartis    
 subsidiaries in China, Novartis violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Securities Exchange Act 
 of 1934  ("Exchange Act") by failing to make and keep books, records and accounts, which, 
 in reasonable  detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and disposition of assets of 
 the issuer. Additionally, Novartis violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, as it 
 failed to maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable 
 assurances that within the  China subsidiaries:  (i) transactions are executed in accordance 
 with management's general or     specific authorization; (ii) transactions are recorded as 
 necessary to permit preparation of financial   statements in conformity with generally 
 accepted accounting principles or any other criteria   applicable to such statements; (iii) 
 transactions are recorded as necessary to maintain    accountability for assets; and (iv) that 
 access to assets is permitted only in accordance with   management's general or specific 
 authorization.  
 
                                           Respondent 
 
        4.     Novartis AG ("Novartis") is a corporation organized under the laws of 
 Switzerland. Novartis' headquarters are located in Basel, Switzerland.  Novartis issued and 
 maintains a class of publicly traded securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the 

                                                 
1
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not 
       binding on any other person or entity in this or any othe r proceeding. 
 
                                                 2 
                                                   
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which are traded on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 

        5.    Novartis is a global provider of pharmaceutical and over-the-counter health 
 products. Novartis' products are available in 180 countries and Novartis employs 
 approximately  120,000 employees.  Novartis manages its operations by therapeutic area. 
 Novartis conducts business in China solely through its subsidiaries, including the two 
 subsidiaries identified below. 
 
                                   Other Relevant Entities 
 
        6.    Shanghai Novartis Trading Ltd      ("Sandoz China") is headquartered in 
 Shanghai,  China. Among other things, Sandoz China conducts the sales and marketing 
 activities of Novartis generic pharmaceutical products in China including Sandostatin. 
 Sandoz China is an indirect subsidiary of Novartis. 
 
        7.    Beijing Novartis Pharma Co     , Ltd ("Novartis China") is based in Beijing, 
 China. Among other things, Novartis China conducts the broader operations for Novartis 
 AG in China including the sale and marketing of proprietary pharmaceutical products. 
 Novartis China is an indirect subsidiary of Novartis. 
 
                                        Sandoz China 
 
        8.    Between 2009 and 2011, certain employees of Novartis' subsidiary, Sandoz 
 China, improperly provided things of value to HCPs in China in connection with 
 pharmaceutical sales  and involved certain complicit managers.  The things of value took 
 varied forms, and included gifts, travel, improper sightseeing or vacations, entertainment, 
 and favors for families of HCPs.  These things of value were improperly recorded on the 
 general ledger as legitimate employee expenses,  sponsorships, conferences,  medical 
 studies, and marketing costs. 
 
       9.     Certain sales representatives of Sandoz China reported to their managers the 
 results of their efforts to increase the sales volume of various generic products.  High 
 prescribing HCPs   were referred to as "key" customers and the volume of their prescriptions 
 was reported to certain senior management at Sandoz China. In order to influence HCPs, 
 certain sales representatives provided HCPs with such things as cash and gifts, which were 
 funded through the submission of   false expense reports.  This practice was known to certain 
 members of management of Sandoz      China, including certain area and district managers and 
 the country sales supervisor. For example, in 2011, two sales representatives submitted fake 
 receipts for approximately $8,100 as part of their employee expense reimbursement 
 requests, which were approved by a regional sales manager.   The proceeds were used to 
 entertain and provide gifts to HCPs.  In one instance, a sales representative submitted a fake 
 $1,154 receipt to purchase holiday gifts for 25 HCPs when the  proceeds were actually used 
 to pay for spa and sauna sessions for HCPs. A regional sales manager  approved the 
 purchase. 

                                               3 
                                                
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
       10.    In connection with this practice, certain employees maintained  projections in 
spreadsheets that directly linked a certain cash value to be provided to HCPs in exchange for a 
certain number of prescriptions per month.   In certain instances, these planned amounts were 
referred to as "investments,"  between several hundred and several thousand dollars annually, 
and the HCPs were in some instances categorized  into and tracked by different tiers, including 
one tier described as "money worshippers."  
 
        11.   As part of its normal business operations, Sandoz China hired local Chinese 
 travel companies to arrange transportation, accommodations, and meals for HCPs in 
 connection with  education events. However, in many instances, the actual trips did not 
 include an educational purpose or the scientific/educational  components were minimal in 
 comparison to the sightseeing  or recreational activities, and were instead a method of 
 influencing the HCPs. The related  expenses were approved and paid with little or no 
 supporting documentation.  For example:   
 
              •   In 2009, Sandoz China sponsored twenty Chinese HCPs to      
                  attend the American College of Surgeons 95th Annual Clinical   
                  Congress in Chicago. While the Clinical Congress was 
                  devoted to educational purposes, the HCPs were also 
                  provided purely  sightseeing or recreational activities, such as 
                  an excursion to Niagara Falls.  Sandoz China also paid for 
                  travel to the U.S. for spouses of the HCPs, $150 in "pocket" 
                  or "walking around" money, and cover charges at a strip club. 
                  A senior manager of  Sandoz China and other Sandoz China 
                  employees accompanied    the HCPs to Chicago.   
 
              •   In 2011, a Chinese travel company submitted several invoices   
                  totaling approximately $25,000 ostensibly in connection with  
                  lectures by an HCP to other HCPs.  The invoices were paid 
                  and recorded as legitimate expenses despite the lack of any 
                  confirmation: (1) that the lecture was organized by Sandoz  
                  China and held in the venue for which an invoice was 
                  submitted; and (2) that the lecture was attended by HCPs. 
 
       12.        Sandoz China used other methods to provide monies to HCPs.  In 2009 and 
201 0, Sandoz China paid HCPs to collect and analyze patient medical data for the stated 
purpose of better understanding the use and reaction of a particular Novartis drug  among 
patients. Senior levels of the Sandoz China sales and marketing team were involved in the 
design and execution of the studies. 
 
       13.        In reality, the studies did not provide any legitimate medical data, but rather 
were used to financially reward HCPs who had prescribed the drug. The studies were not     
approved by the Novartis Global Clinical Quality Assurance group, as policy required, and the   

                                               4 
                                                
---------------------Page 5---------------------

studies did not collect or analyze substantive patient data regarding the drug. Despite the lack 
of real scientific data, payments of approximately $88-135 per data submission were made to 
the prescribing HCPs. The payments made to HCPs under these studies totaled approximately 
$522,000 between 2009 and 201 0.    
 
                                        Novartis  China 
        
       14.           Between 2011 and 2013, employees and agents of Novartis China made         
payments to government officials in China in connection with pharmaceutical sales. The     
payments were made through event planning and travel companies retained by Novartis China 
ostensibly to arrange transportation, accommodations and meals for HCPs in connection with      
educational conferences and other business activities. Through the use of these complicit 
vendors, HCPs were provided with improper inducements to prescribe or recommend Novartis 
products. The subsidiary recorded these payments as legitimate selling and marketing costs in 
its books. 
        
       15.           Novartis China retained numerous third-party travel and event planning    
vendors to organize and manage marketing for HCPs events, both locally within China, and      
outside China. The range of services varied but in some cases vendors arranged the venue, 
food, entertainment, flights, hotels, and transit depending upon the location of the event and 
number of  participants.   In the past several years, Novartis China has hosted thousands of 
such events, and the pharmaceutical business unit within Novartis China was the largest 
consumer of these services. 
        
       16.           Despite the widespread  use of third-party travel and event planning 
vendors in China, Novartis did not have sufficient  internal accounting controls or anti-
corruption compliance measures   in connection with the use of these vendors.  Among other 
things, Novartis failed to conduct sufficient training of its sales staff and managers to prevent 
and detect inappropriate payments  made to and/or through these vendors, failed to conduct 
proper  due diligence in connection with these vendors and failed to ensure sufficient and 
appropriate support for the selling and marketing expenses submitted  by these vendors. 
 
                          Novartis' Cooperation and Remediation       
 
       17.        In connection with the SEC Staff s investigation  and in response to media 
reports concerning a competitor in August 2013, Novartis  instituted an expansive review of its 
relationships in China with travel and event planning vendors.  Novartis’ internal review 
showed  that the vast majority of these vendors were retained in connection with events in which 
HCPs  attended.   It also identified  a significant percentage  of events that did not comply with 
existing Novartis Corporate policies and procedures.   This included  events for which no record 
existed to verify it had occurred, events for which inconsistent records existed, and events that 
could not be verified from available information.   Through this mechanism  of using travel 
agencies and similar vendors to plan events, funds were generated that were used to provide 
improper payments  and other inducements to HCPs in order to increase sales of Novartis 

                                               5 
                                                 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

products. 
 
       18.         As a result of its internal review over relationships with local Chinese third-
party travel and event planning vendors, Novartis  identified weaknesses  in its internal controls 
over third party relationships at Novartis China.  Novartis  promptly took remedial steps to 
improve its internal controls at Novartis China including overhauling  its anti-corruption 
policies and procedures,  terminating  and/or imposing other disciplinary  sanctions against 
culpable  employees, suspending vendor relationships  and payments,  doubling  its training 
initiatives, re-organized  its compliance  function to include enhanced  oversight by regional  and 
headquarter  compliance  personnel, and eliminated the use of vendors to support external 
meetings. 
    
                                Legal Standards and Violations 

       Under Section 21C(a) of the Exchange Act, the Commission may impose a cease-and-
desist order upon any person who is violating, has violated, or is about to violate any provision 
of the Exchange Act or any rule or regulation thereunder, and upon any other person that is, was, 
or would be a cause of the violation, due to an act of omission the person knew or should have 
known would contribute to such violation. 
        

                                        FCPA Violations 
                                                  
       Under Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act issuers are required to make and keep 
books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and disposition of the assets of the issuer.  [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)]. 
        
       Under Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act issuers are required to devise and maintain 
a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (i) 
transactions are executed in accordance with management’s general or specific authorization; (ii) 
transactions are recorded as necessary (I) to permit preparation of financial statements in 
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such 
statements, and (II) to maintain accountability for assets; (iii) access to assets is permitted only in 
accordance with management’s general or specific authorization; and (iv) the recorded 
accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and 
appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.  [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B)]. 
        
       As described above, Novartis violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act by 
improperly recording the payments to health care providers as sales, marketing, and promotion 
expenses.  The false entries were initially recorded by Sandoz China and Novartis China which 
were then consolidated and reported by Novartis in its consolidated financial statements.  Novartis  
violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) by failing to devise and maintain sufficient accounting controls to 
detect and prevent the making of improper payments to foreign officials.  
 
 

                                                 6 
                                                  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 
                                         Undertakings 
                                                 
       Respondent has undertaken to:   
                            1. Report to the Commission staff periodically, at no less than 
                               nine-month   intervals during a two-year term, the status of its 
                               remediation and implementation of compliance measures.  
                               During this two-year period, should Respondent discover 
                               credible evidence, not already reported to the Commission staff, 
                               that questionable or corrupt payments or questionable or corrupt 
                               transfers of value may have been offered, promised, paid, or 
                               authorized by Respondent, or any entity or person acting on 
                               behalf of Respondent, or that related false books and records 
                               have been maintained, Respondent shall promptly report such 
                               conduct to the Commission staff.  During this two-year period, 
                               Respondent shall:  (1) conduct an initial review and submit an 
                               initial report, and (2) conduct and prepare at least two follow-up 
                               reviews and reports, as described below: 
 

                                 a. Respondent shall submit to the Commission  staff a 
                                 written  report within 180 calendar days of the entry of this 
                                 Order setting forth a   complete description of its Foreign 
                                 Corrupt  Practices Act ("FCPA")   and anti-corruption related 
                                 remediation efforts to date, its proposals reasonably 
                                 designed to improve the policies and procedures of   
                                 Respondent for ensuring compliance with the FCPA  and 
                                 other applicable anticorruption laws, and the parameters of 
                                 the subsequent reviews  (the "Initial Report").  The Initial 
                                 Report  shall be transmitted to Charles Cain, Deputy Unit 
                                 Chief, FCPA Unit,   Division of Enforcement, United States 
                                 Securities and Exchange   Commission,  100  F St NE, 
                                 Washington, DC 20549.  Respondent      may extend the time 
                                 period for issuance of the Initial Report with prior written 
                                 approval of the Commission staff. 
 
                              b. Respondent shall undertake at least two follow-up reviews,    
                                 incorporating any comments provided by the Commission 
                                 staff on the previous report, to further monitor and assess 
                                 whether the  policies and procedures of Respondent are 
                                 reasonably designed to   detect and prevent violations of the 
                                 FCPA and other applicable    anti-corruption laws (the 
                                 "Follow-up Reports").   
 
                              c. The first Follow-up Report shall be completed by no later 

                                                7 
                                                 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

                                 than 270 days after the Initial Report.  The second Follow-
                                 up Report shall be  completed by no later than 450 days 
                                 after the completion of the Initial Report. Respondent may 
                                 extend the time period for issuance of the Follow-up 
                                 Reports with prior written approval of the  Commission 
                                 staff. 
 
                              d. The periodic reviews and reports submitted by Respondent 
                                 will likely include proprietary, financial,  confidential, and 
                                 competitive  business information. Public disclosure of the 
                                 reports could discourage cooperation, impede pending or 
                                 potential government   investigations and thus undermine the 
                                 objectives of the reporting requirement. For these reasons, 
                                 among others, the reports and the  contents thereof are 
                                 intended to remain and shall remain non-public,  except (a) 
                                 pursuant to court order, (b) as agreed by the parties in 
                                 writing, (c) to the extent that the Commission staff 
                                 determines in its sole discretion that disclosure would be in 
                                 furtherance of the Commission's discharge of its duties and 
                                 responsibilities, or (d) is otherwise required by law. 
 
                             2.      Certify, in writing, compliance with the undertaking(s) 
                             set forth above. The certification shall identify the undertaking(s) 
                             provide written  evidence of compliance in the form of a 
                             narrative, and be supported by   exhibits sufficient to demonstrate 
                             compliance.  The Commission staff may make reasonable 
                             requests for further evidence of compliance, and   Respondent 
                             agrees to provide such evidence. The certification and supporting 
                             materials shall be submitted to Charles Cain, Deputy Unit Chief, 
                             FCPA Unit, with a copy to the Office of the Chief Counsel of the   
                             Enforcement Division, no later than sixty (60) days from the date 
                             of the completion of the undertakings.  
 
                                              IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Novartis’ Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, pursuant to 21C of the Exchange Act, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.     Respondent Novartis cease and desist from committing or causing any violations 
and any future violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act; 
        
       B.     Respondent shall, within 14 days of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement, of 
$21,579,217 and prejudgment interest of $1,470,887 to the Securities and Exchange Commission 
                                               8 
                                                 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 
21F(g)(3).  If timely payment of disgorgement or prejudgment interest is not made, additional 
interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600.  Respondent shall, within 14 days of the 
entry of this Order, pay a civil money penalty in the amount of $2,000,000 to the Securities and 
Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to 
Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  If timely payment of civil money penalty is not made, additional 
interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717.  Payment must be made in one of the following 
ways:   
 
              (1)     Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                      will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
               
              (2)     Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
               
              (3)     Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
              Enterprise Services Center 
              Accounts Receivable Branch 
              HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
              6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
              Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Novartis as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of 
the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Charles Cain, Deputy Unit Chief, FCPA 
Unit, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE, Washington, 
DC 20549. 
 
       C.     Respondent shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in Section III.       
above. 
 
                   
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Brent J. Fields 
                                                    Secretary 
 
 

                                                9 
                                                 
