---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            `UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 76065 / October 1, 2015 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3710 / October 1, 2015 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16879 

                                         ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                         ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-AND- 
In the Matter of                         DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
                                         SECTIONS 4C AND 21C OF THE 
      GRANT THORNTON                     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
      INDIA LLP                       AND RULE 102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S 
                                                               
Respondent.                             
                                                                                
                                    
 

                                            I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission” or “SEC”) deems it appropriate 
that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant 
                  1        2
to Sections 4C(a)(2) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 

                                                 
1
  Section 4C(a)(2) provides, in relevant part, that: 

The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the privilege of 
appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or 
improper professional conduct. 

2
 Section 21C provides, in relevant part, that: 

If the Commission finds…that any person…has violated…any provision of this title, or any rule or regulation 
thereunder, the Commission may…enter an order requiring such person, and any other person that …was…a cause of 
the violation…to cease and desist from committing or causing such violation and any future violation of the same 
provision, rule, or regulation. 

 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 

            3
102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice against Grant Thornton India LLP (“GT 
India” or “Respondent”). 

                                                II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making 
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth 
below. 

                                                   III. 

                                                                                  4       
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that: 

A.     SUMMARY 
        
       1.      This matter arises out of violations of the auditor independence rules by GT India.  
The violations occurred in connection with two partners from Grant Thornton Mauritius (“GT 
Mauritius”) who, through an entity co-owned by them, incorporated a Mauritius-based subsidiary 
of GT India’s issuer audit client, served on the board of directors of that subsidiary, and performed 
prohibited non-audit services for that subsidiary.  GT India’s violations occurred for that issuer 
audit client’s fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. 
 
B.     RESPONDENT 

       2.      GT India, with offices located throughout India, is an accounting and advisory firm 
and a member firm of Grant Thornton International Ltd.  GT India is registered with the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”). 

C.     OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES 

       3.      GT Mauritius is an accounting and advisory firm and a member firm of Grant 
Thornton International Ltd. GT Mauritius is not registered with the PCAOB. 

                                                 
3
  Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 

The Commission may censure a person or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing 
before it . . . to any person who is found . . .  to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct. 

4
  The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other person 
or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                                 2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 

       4.     Grant Thornton International Ltd. (“GT International”), incorporated in London, 
United Kingdom, is the world's sixth largest professional services network of independent 
accounting and consulting member firms.  GT International member firms provide assurance, tax 
and advisory services to privately held businesses, public interest entities, and public sector 
entities in over 125 countries. 

       5.     Anex Management Services Limited (“Anex”) is a Mauritius company that was 
created in 1994 and operates in Mauritius.  Anex creates, structures, licenses, administers, and 
manages Mauritius-based corporations for non-domestic corporate groups by providing, for 
example, resident directors as required by Mauritius law.  During the relevant time, Anex was 
owned by two partners of GT Mauritius. 

       6.     At all relevant times, Client A had shares registered with the Commission pursuant 
to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and filed annual reports on Form 20-F with the Commission. 

D.     FACTS 

       7.     In early 2012, Client A began restructuring itself in preparation of a planned initial 
public offering to be registered with the Commission.  On February 15, 2012, it engaged GT India 
to audit the financial statements of Client A’s core operating company for each of the three years 
ended March 31, 2010, 2011, and 2012.  On February 20, 2012, Client A incorporated what would 
become a public holding company. 

       8.     On June 15, 2012, GT India completed its audit of Client A’s financial statements, 
which at the time was not a Commission registrant.  GT India issued an audit report dated June 15, 
2012 with an unqualified opinion for each of the three fiscal year ended March 31, 2012.  About 
one month later, a Client A employee asked an associate tax director from GT India to recommend 
a company that could incorporate a Mauritius-based subsidiary as a final step in Client A’s 
restructuring.  The associate tax director of GT India, who was also a member of the audit 
engagement team, contacted a partner of GT Mauritius seeking a recommendation.  Shortly 
following this discussion, Client A retained Anex, a corporate services company located in 
Mauritius, to incorporate and manage its new Mauritius subsidiary.   

       9.     On August 16, 2012, Anex incorporated Client A’s Mauritius subsidiary.  Because 
Mauritius law required that board of directors of Mauritius corporations have at least two resident 
directors, Anex appointed its co-owners, who were, and continue to be, GT Mauritius partners, to 
the board of Client A’s Mauritius subsidiary.  As directors, the two GT Mauritius partners had 
signatory authority over the bank accounts of Client A’s Mauritius subsidiary, were authorized 
agents of the company, and were responsible for signing any audited statutory financial 
statements.   

       10.    On August 29, 2012, Client A filed a registration statement with the Commission 
on Form F-1, which included GT India’s audit report of June 15, 2012.  About six weeks later, on 
October 15, 2012, Client A completed its initial public offering and moved $100 million in 
offering proceeds to Client A’s Mauritius subsidiary to purchase a controlling interest in Client 
A’s operating company.   

                                               3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 

       11.    GT India subsequently audited Client A’s 2013 financial statements for its fiscal 
year ended March 31, 2013, and GT India issued its audit report dated June 13, 2013.  Client A 
included that audit report in its annual report on Form 20-F, which was filed with the Commission 
on June 13, 2013.  That audit report stated that Respondent GT India had “conducted [its] audit in 
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United 
States).”  However, GT India was not independent because (1) partners of GT Mauritius sat on the 
board of directors of Client A’s Mauritius subsidiary when Respondent audited Client A’s 
publicly-held parent; and (2) GT Mauritius’ related party, Anex, provided prohibited non-audit 
services to the audit client of Respondent.  For its 2013 audit of Client A’s financial statements, 
GT India received total audit fees of $128,905.    

       12.     As early as 2006, GT International required member firms proposing to audit a 
                                                                                 5
Commission registrant to submit an International Relationship Check (“IRC”)  for circulation to 
GT International member firms in countries where the proposed client had related entities.  The 
purpose of the IRC was to determine whether the member firm or its network firms in the other 
countries had any existing relationship with a corporate group of the proposed audit client.  GT 
International defined “network firm” to include “(a) a firm that is part of a larger structure and that 
(i) uses a name in its firm name that is common to the larger structure; or (ii) shares significant 
professional resources with other firms in the larger structure; or (iii) shares profits or costs with 
other firms  within the larger structure,” or (b) an entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under 
common control with the firm through ownership, management, or other means.”  Under this 
definition, the Mauritius corporate services company fell within the definition of a network firm of 
GT Mauritius, as it was under common control through the two GT Mauritius partners.   

       13.    In addition, GT International’s global audit manual required its member firms to 
obtain annual independence confirmation letters in connection with auditing work.  Specifically, 
the manual provided: “To assist in maintaining our independence, an independence letter must 
also be obtained from [GT International] member firms in countries where Commission audit 
clients have subsidiaries or operating units, even if a [GT International] member firm does not 
audit the subsidiary or operating unit in that country.”   

       14.     On December 31, 2012, during the course of Client A’s 2013 audit, GT India sent 
an IRC to GT International for circulation to relevant GT International member firms.  The IRC 
asked about independence or potential conflicts concerning GT India’s audit of Client A.  GT India 
specifically referenced, among other names to be examined, the two GT Mauritius partners, who 

                                                 
5
 At all relevant times, GT International required its member firms with audit clients whose securities were registered 
with the Commission to employ IRCs, which are conflict-of-interest and independence checks.  According to GT 
International, its IRC process is 

       designed to check for the existence of relationships in order to identify potential conflicts of interest and/or 
       threats to independence.  These IRCs take the form of emails sent to member firms [by Grant Thornton 
       International, at the request of the member firm auditing the client] asking about the existence of client, 
       vendor or business relationships. 

The emails included GT International forms on which the firm proposing to audit an entity included names of 
individuals and entities related to the entity, and a form on which the responding firm would identify reportable 
relationships. 

                                                  4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 

were listed on the IRC as directors of Client A’s Mauritius subsidiary.  GT International circulated 
the IRC to a number of its member firms, including GT Mauritius, on January 25, 2013.   

        15.     Three days later, a GT Mauritius employee incorrectly responded to the IRC 
stating, “[w]e have no relationships to report.”, despite the fact that the two GT Mauritius partners 
were acting as directors of Client A’s subsidiary in Mauritius and Anex was performing other 
prohibited non-audit services to that subsidiary.  GT India thereafter, in reliance on GT Mauritius 
response to the IRC, audited Client A’s financial statements for fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, 
and issued an unqualified audit report dated June 13, 2013.   Client A included that audit report in 
its annual report on Form 20-F, which was filed with the Commission on June 13, 2013.  Although 
GT India had sent GT International an IRC at the end of calendar year 2012, it did not 
simultaneously request from GT Mauritius the annual independence confirmation, as required by 
GT International compliance control procedures governing the independence and conflict check 
process.  This confirmation sought the same information on independence as that requested by the 
IRC.  GT Mauritius, including the two partners who were acting as directors on Client A’s 
subsidiary, did not participate in GT India’s audit.  

E.      VIOLATIONS 

        16.     The Supreme Court has observed that “[p]ublic faith in the reliability of a 
corporation’s financial statements depends upon the public perception of the outside auditor as an 
independent professional.”  U.S. v. Arthur Young, 465 U.S. 805, 819 n.15 (1984).  To insure such 
independence, Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X requires each accountant’s report to state 
“whether the audit was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards” 
(“GAAS”).  GAAS, in turn, require auditors to maintain strict independence—both in fact and 
                                         6
appearance—from their audit clients.         For purposes of the independence rules, Rule 2    -01(f)(2)  of 
Regulation S  -X defines an accounting firm to include its associated entities.      

        17.     The objective of Rule 2   -01 of Regulation S  -X is to ensure that auditors are qualified 
                                                        7
and in  dependent of their Commission audit clients      —both in fact and in appearance—throughout 
                                                   8
the audit and professional engagement period.          The rule sets forth a non-exhaustive list of 
                                                  
6
 The Commission has stated that for audit reports issued on or after May 24, 2004, the reference in Rule 2-02(b)(1) to 
“generally accepted auditing standards” means the standards of the PCAOB and the applicable Commission 
regulations, both of which require an auditor to be independent of its client.  See, “Commission Guidance Regarding 
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s Auditing and Related Professional Practice Standard No. 1,” 
Exchange Act Rel. No. 49708, 82 SEC Docket 3060 (May 14, 2004).  See, also, PCAOB Rule 3520 (“A registered 
public accounting firm and its associated persons must be independent of the firm’s audit client throughout the audit 
and professional engagement period.”); and PCAOB Auditing Standards, Independence, AU § 220.  

7
 With certain exceptions that are not relevant here, “audit client” is defined as “the entity whose financial statements 
or other information is [sic] being audited, reviewed, or attested and any affiliates, of the audit client.” 17 C.F.R. § 
210-2.01(f)(6) (emphasis added).  In turn, “affiliate” is defined to include “[a]n entity that has control over the audit 
client, over which the audit client has control, or which is under common control with the audit client, including the 
client’s parents and subsidiaries. . . .” 17 C.F.R. § 210-2.01(f)(4)(i). 

8
 Audit and professional engagement period includes both the periods covered by any financial statements being 
audited and the period of the engagements to audit the financial statements or to prepare a report filed with the 
Commission.  This period ends when the audit client or the accountant notifies the Commission that the client is no 
longer that accountant’s audit client.17 C.F.R. § 210-2.01(f)(5). 

                                                     5 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 

non-audit services which an auditor cannot provide to its audit clients and be considered 
independent.  See 17 C.F.R. § 210-2.01(c)(4)(i)-(x).  Among other things, it prohibits an auditor 
from providing bookkeeping services, payroll services, appraisal or valuation services, internal 
audit outsourcing services, legal services, expert services, and broker-dealer, investment adviser, 
or investment bank services. Id.  It also prohibits an auditor from designing and implementing 
financial information systems or performing human resources or management functions for its 
audit clients.  See 17 C.F.R. § 210-2.01(c)(4)(ii), (vi) and (vii). Rule 2-01(c)(4)(viii) further 
prohibits the auditor from having custody of the assets of the audit client. 

       18.     Rule 2-01(c)(2) of Regulation S-X provides that an auditor is not independent of its 
audit client if “a current partner, principal, shareholder, or professional employee of the 
accounting firm is employed by the audit client or serves as a member of the board of directors or 
similar management or governing body of the audit client.”  Rule 2-01(c)(4)(vi) of Regulation S-X 
also provides that an auditor is not independent of its audit client if the auditor is  “[a]cting, 
temporarily or permanently, as a director, officer, or employee of an audit client, or performing 
any decision-making, supervisory, or ongoing monitoring function for the audit client.” 17 C.F.R. 
§ 210-2.01(c)(4)(vi).  Similarly, Preliminary Note 2 to Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X makes clear 
that, in applying the general standard of auditor independence set forth in Rule 2-01(b), the 
Commission considers, among three other principles, whether a relationship or service “results in 
the accountant acting as management or an employee of the audit client.” 17 C.F.R. § 210-2.01, 
Preliminary Note 2. 

       19.     PCAOB Standards require auditors to be independent of their audit clients.  To 
affirm that one’s audit was conducted in accordance with PCAOB Standards when one was not 
independent (because of a prohibited employment relationship with or provision of prohibited 
non-audit services to an audit client) is a direct violation of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X.  
Such an independence violation also constitutes (i) improper professional conduct under Rule 
102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Section 4C of the Exchange Act and (ii) causing 
violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 thereunder because the filing fails 
to include financial statements audited by an independent accountant.       

       20.     The financial statements Client A filed with the Commission in its Form 20-F on 
June 13, 2013, included GT India’s audit report dated June 13, 2013, which stated, “[w]e 
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting 
Oversight Board (United States).”  The 2013 audit was not conducted in accordance with PCAOB 
standards because these standards require auditor independence and GT India was not independent 
during the audit and professional engagement period.  GT India was not independent because (1) 
partners of GT Mauritius sat on the board of directors of Client A’s Mauritius subsidiary when 
Respondent audited Client A’s publicly-held parent; and (2) GT Mauritius’ related party, Anex, 
provided prohibited non-audit services to the audit client of Respondent.  As a consequence, GT 
India violated Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X and caused Client A to violate Section 13(a) of 
the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 thereunder.  Respondent’s conduct also constituted improper 
professional conduct pursuant to Section 4C(a)(c) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of 
the Commission’s Rule of Practice. 

       21.     Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act requires, among other things, every issuer of a 
security registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act to file with the Commission annual 

                                                6 
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 

reports audited by independent public accountants.  Rule 13a-1 under the Exchange Act provides 
that each such registrant “shall file an annual report on the appropriate form authorized or 
prescribed therefor for each fiscal year.”  Item 8 (“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”) 
of Form 10-K, in turn, requires an issuer filing an annual report on that Form to “[f]urnish financial 
statements meeting the requirements of Regulation S-X.”  Rules 3-01 and 3-02 of Regulation S-X 
require the filing of “audited” balance sheets and “audited” statements of income and cash flows, 
and Rule 1-02(d) of Regulation S-X provides that an “audit” is “an examination of the financial 
statements by an independent accountant in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards.”  Foreign private issuers with securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the 
Exchange Act are required to file their annual reports on Form 20-F.  Item 17(a) of Form 20-F 
requires registrants to furnish financial statements for the same fiscal years and accountants’ 
certificates that would be required to be furnished if the registration statement were on Form 10 or 
the annual report on Form 10-K.  

       22.     The annual report Client A filed with the Commission on Form 20-F for its fiscal 
year ended March 31, 2013, included financial statements audited by GT India.  As set forth above, 
however, at the time Client A filed its annual report, it did not include financial statements that had 
been audited by an independent accountant because GT India’s independence with regard to Client 
A was impaired.  Therefore, in filing the Form 20-F, Client A violated Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 promulgated thereunder, and GT India caused Client A’s violations 
of those provisions.    

       23.    Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, as codified in Section 
4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act, allows the Commission to censure a person, or deny such person, 
temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission, if it 
finds that such person has engaged in “improper professional conduct.”  For accountants, the 
definition of “improper professional conduct” includes: 

               1. “Intentional or knowing conduct, including reckless conduct, that results in a 
               violation of applicable professional standards.”  Exchange Act Section 4C(b)(1), 
               Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(A); or 

               2. Either of the following two types of negligent conduct: 
 
                       (A) A single instance of highly unreasonable conduct that results in a 
               violation of applicable professional standards in circumstances in which an 
               accountant knows, or should know, that heightened scrutiny is warranted; or  
                        
                       (B) Repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a 
               violation of applicable professional standards that indicate a lack of competence to 
                                                 9
               practice before the Commission.    
                                                  
9
 In October 1998, the Commission amended its definition of “improper professional conduct” to include these two 
negligence standards, noting that “a negligent auditor can do just as much harm to the Commission's processes as one 
who acts with an improper motive.”  See, Amendment to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 63 Fed. 
Reg. 57,164, 57,167 (October 26, 1998)(codified at 17 C.F.R. Part 201). 

 

                                                 7 
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 

        
Exchange Act Section 4C(b)(2  ).   

       The Commission has defined the “highly unreasonable” standard as:  
        
       an intermediate standard, higher than ordinary negligence but lower than the traditional 
       definition of recklessness used in cases brought under Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act 
       and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.  The highly unreasonable standard is an objective standard.  
       The conduct at issue is measured by the degree of the departure from professional 
       standards and not the intent of the accountant. 
        
See, Amendment to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 63 Fed. Reg. 57,164, 
57,168 (October 26, 1998)(codified at 17 C.F.R. Part 201).  In addition, the standard does not 
depend on the impact on financial statements; rather, the “proper focus should be on the conduct 
itself, rather than on the risk of harm.”  Amendment to Rule 102(e), 63 Fed. Reg. 57,168.  Thus, the 
Commission has found negligent conduct where an auditor, when it knew or should have known 
that independence was implicated, failed to gather all the salient relevant facts pertinent to the 
independence determination.  KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, Lit. Release. No. 34-43862, 74 SEC 
Docket 357, 377-79 (January 19, 2001). 
 
       24.    Importantly, in determining what constitutes “highly unreasonable conduct,” the 
Commission has specifically addressed auditor independence issues, noting, “[b]ecause of the 
importance of an accountant’s independence to the integrity of the financial reporting system, the 
Commission has concluded that circumstances that raise questions about an accountant’s 
independence always merit heightened scrutiny.  Therefore, if an accountant acts highly 
unreasonably with respect to an independence issue, that accountant has engaged in "improper 
professional conduct.”  See, Amendment to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 63 
Fed. Reg. 57,164, 57,168 (October 26, 1998)(codified at 17 C.F.R. Part 201). 
        
       25.    In issuing its audit report on Client A’s 2013 financial statements, GT India 
represented that “[w]e conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).”  GT India was not independent of Client 
A.  GT India’s reliance on GT Mauritius’s incorrect assertion in the IRC that GT Mauritius “[had] 
no relationships to report” constituted a single instance of highly unreasonable conduct that 
resulted in a violation of applicable professional standards.  As a result, GT India violated the 
applicable professional standards as defined by Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 
102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 

F.     RESPONDENT’S REMEDIAL EFFORTS 
        
       26.    In determining to accept Respondent’s Offer, the Commission has considered 
remedial acts undertaken by Respondent as well as the cooperation Respondent has afforded the 
Commission staff.  Since these matters emerged, Respondent has undertaken firm-specific actions 
to improve compliance with GT International’s revised independence compliance requirements.  
Respondent, among other things, has imposed training and certification requirements for their 
employees; has reviewed all former and present audit clients that were Commission registrants; 

                                               8 
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

 

has taken steps to prevent and detect possible future violations; and has implemented audit tools 
designed to ensure compliance with SEC independence rules. 
 
G.     FINDINGS 

       27.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent: (a) violated Rule 
2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X; (b) caused violations of Exchange Act Section 13(a) and Exchange 
Act Rule 13a-1 by Client A; and (c) engaged in improper professional conduct pursuant to 
Exchange Act Section 4C(a)(2) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
                                                 IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     Respondent GT India shall cease and desist from committing or causing any 
violations and any future violations of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X, Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act, and Rule 13a-1 promulgated thereunder. 

       B.     Respondent GT India is hereby censured. 

       C.     Respondent GT India shall, within thirty (30) days of the issuance of this Order, 
pay disgorgement of $128,905 in audit fees, prejudgment interest of $8,977, and a civil money 
penalty in the amount of $50,000, for a total of $187,882, to the to the Securities and Exchange 
Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury in accordance with 
Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  If timely payment is not made on the disgorgement and 
prejudgment interest, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to Commission Rule of Practice 
600.  If timely payment is not made on the civil money penalties, additional interest shall accrue 
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717. 
        
Payment must be made in one of the following ways: 

              (1)    Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                     will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request; 

              (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                     through the Commission website at 
                     http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or 

              (3)    Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                     States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                     Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to: 

                             Enterprise Services Center 
                             Accounts Receivable Branch 
                             HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 

                                              9 
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

 

                             6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                             Oklahoma City, OK 73169 

       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying GT 
India as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings.  A copy of 
the cover letter and check or money order must be simultaneously sent to Gerald W. Hodgkins, 
Associate Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., 
N.E., Washington, DC 20549. 

       To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related 
Investor Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of 
any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil 
penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset").  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a 
Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting 
the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the 
Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be deemed 
an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty 
imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" means a 
private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based 
on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this 
proceeding. 

                      By the Commission. 

                       

                                            Brent J. Fields 
                                            Secretary 

                                             

                                               10 
 
