---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 74217 / February 6, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3627 / February 6, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File Nos. 3-14872, 3-15116 
 
                                                     CORRECTED  ORDER  ON THE   
                                                     BASIS OF OFFERS  OF  
                                                     SETTLEMENT OF CERTAIN  
In the Matter of                                     RESPONDENTS   IMPLEMENTING 
                                                     SETTLEMENT  
      BDO China Dahua CPA Co., Ltd. ; 
      Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Certified    
          Public Accountants Ltd.;  
      Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP;   
      KPMG Huazhen  (Special General      
          Partner ship); 
      PricewaterhouseCoopers Zhong Tian    
          CPAs Limited   
 
Respondents.  
 
 
 
 
                                                 
                                           I. 
 
      The  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  (“SEC”  or  “Commission”)  instituted  public 
administrative proceedings pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice 
                                                                                        1
against Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Certified Public Accountants Ltd. (“DTTC”) on May 9, 2012.   

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that:  “The Commission may censure a person or deny, 
temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before it in any way to any person 
 
 
                    
                                                                                              
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                   
The Commission also instituted public administrative proceedings pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) 
against BDO China Dahua CPA Co., Ltd. (“Dahua”); DTTC; Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP 
(“EYHM”);    KPMG    Huazhen    (Special    General    Partnership)    (“KPMG    Huazhen”);    and 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Zhong Tian CPAs Limited Company (“PwC Shanghai”) on December 3, 
2012.  The two proceedings were consolidated on December 20, 2012, pursuant to Commission 
Rule 201(a), and constitute the current proceeding (“Current Proceeding”).  On May 9, 2014, we 
granted the respective petitions for review of four of the five respondents, DTTC, EYHM, KPMG 
Huazhen,  and  PwC  Shanghai  (collectively  the  “Settling  Respondents”),  and  the  Division  of 
Enforcement (“Division”) of the initial decision of the Administrative Law Judge (“ALJ”) issued 
                                         2
on January 22, 2014 (“Initial Decision”).    
                                    
                                                II. 
 
       The Settling Respondents have submitted Offers of Settlement (the “Offers”), which the 
Commission has determined to accept.  The Settling Respondents admit only the facts set forth in 
Annex A attached hereto; and admit the Commission’s jurisdiction over them in, and over the 
subject matter of, the Current Proceeding, any proceeding to enforce or that seeks to challenge this 
Order, and any proceeding contemplated by Section III.J.3 or III.J.4 of this Order.  In addition, 
without admitting or denying the findings herein the Settling Respondents consent to the entry of 
this Order on the Basis of Offers of Settlement of Certain Respondents Implementing Settlement 
(“Order”) containing the following findings, undertakings to make payments as part of the Offers, 
procedures  and  undertakings  as  to  future  requests  and  possible  additional  proceedings  and 
remedies, as set forth below, and a stay of the Current Proceeding as to the Settling Respondents 
(defined herein). 
 
                                                III. 
 
        On the basis of this Order and the Settling Respondents’ Offers, and the facts contained in 
                                3
Annex A, the Commission finds     that:    
 
A.     SUMMARY 
        
       1.      The  Settling  Respondents  are  foreign  public  accounting  firms,  as  defined  by 
Section 106 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley” or “the Act”), 15 U.S.C. § 
7216(b), all based in the People’s Republic of China (“China” or “PRC”).  They registered with the 
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB” or “Board”) in 2004.  Each Settling 
Respondent performed audit work for one or more clients identified in these proceedings with the 

                                                                                                                                                             
who is found . . . [t]o have willfully violated . . . any provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules 
and regulations thereunder.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(1)(iii). 
2
   The remaining respondent, Dahua, did not file a petition for review. 
3
   The findings herein are made pursuant to the Settling Respondents’ Offers and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                                 2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                 
letter designations DTTC Client A and Client B through I.  The Division opened accounting fraud 
investigations related to each of these nine clients. 

       2.     Pursuant to Section 106 of Sarbanes-Oxley, as amended by Section 929J of the 
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”) (“Section 106”), 
the Division served requests for audit workpapers and related documents pertaining to the nine 
clients on the Settling Respondents, through their designated agents, at various times between 
March 11, 2011, and April 26, 2012.  The Settling Respondents responded to these requests, 
stating  that  PRC  laws  prevented  them  from  producing  responsive  documents  directly  to  the 
Division.   The Settling  Respondents  have not produced any  responsive  audit  workpapers  and 
related documents  directly  to the  Division, nor  did the Division  receive any  of the  requested 
workpapers  and  related  documents  through  any  other  channel  before  commencement  of  the 
Current Proceeding.  Because of the lack of direct production, the Commission issued the above-
referenced orders instituting proceedings under Commission Rule of Practice 102(e) against the 
Settling Respondents based on willful violations of Section 106 (the “OIPs”).  The Administrative 
Law Judge issued the  Initial Decision in the Current Proceeding  finding that DTTC, EYHM, 
KPMG  Huazhen,  and  PwC  Shanghai  each  willfully  violated  Sarbanes-Oxley  Section  106  by 
willfully refusing to comply with at least one SEC request under that provision. 

       3.     As set forth below, this Order (i) finds, for purposes of this Order, that the Settling 
Respondents  willfully  violated  Section  106,  (ii)  censures  the  Settling  Respondents,  and  (iii) 
memorializes certain undertakings by them, including a payment by each of them in the amount of 
$500,000 to the United States Treasury.  This Order also stays the Current Proceeding as to the 
Settling Respondents for a period of four years.  During this time, the Settling Respondents will 
perform  specified  undertakings  in  response  to  any  future  requests  for  documents  covered  by 
Section 106 of Sarbanes-Oxley.  Moreover, this Order provides at least three additional forms of 
relief in the event the Division is unsatisfied by the productions of documents that it receives in 
response to future requests. 

             First, if a Settling Respondent fails to attest  that it has produced documents as 
               required  by  the  undertakings,  that  Settling  Respondent  is  subject  to  automatic 
               issuance of a Commission order that partially denies that Settling Respondent the 
               privilege  of  appearing  or  practicing  before  it  for  a  period  of  six  months  (an 
               “Automatic Bar”).  

             Second, if the Division believes that a production from a Settling Respondent is 
               deficient in certain ways as set forth in the undertakings, the Commission, on the 
               basis    of    the  Division’s    allegations,    may    institute    a    separate,    expedited 
               administrative    proceeding    against    that  Settling  Respondent    (a    “Summary 
               Proceeding”). 

             Third, if two or more productions from the Settling Respondents are substantially 
               delayed, are deficient in certain ways, or lack substantial volumes of  requested 
               documents (or portions of documents) in violation of, or without justification under, 

                                                3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                                    
               U.S. law, including, but not limited to, Section 106 of Sarbanes-Oxley, the Division 
               may  request  that  the  Commission  terminate  the  stay  and  resume  the  Current 
               Proceeding (“Restart”). 

Under the Restart scenario, the Commission may resolve all issues as to liability and remedies 
raised by the OIPs, including all defenses previously raised by the Settling Respondents, consistent 
with the Commission’s May 9, 2014 order granting the parties’ petitions for review in the Current 
            4
Proceeding.     Absent a Restart within the four  - year undertaking period , this Current Proceeding   
will be deemed dismissed   .  However, such dismissal will not affect any admissions, findings, or 
remedies ordered in th  is Order, which are, and will be, deemed final upon the dismissal of the 
Current Proceeding  .  

B.     SETTLING RESPONDENTS 

       4.      DTTC  (or   “Deloitte”)  is   a   special   general   partnership   providing   audit   and 
professional services in the PRC.  DTTC is located in Shanghai, China, and is a member firm of 
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (“DTT Global”), a UK private company limited by guarantee.  
DTTC is a foreign public accounting firm as defined by Section 106 of Sarbanes-Oxley. 

       5.      EYHM  (or   “Ernst”)  is  a   special   general   partnership   providing   audit   and 
professional services in the PRC.  EYHM is headquartered in Beijing, China, and is a member firm 
of Ernst & Young Global Limited (“EY Global”), a UK private company limited by guarantee.  
EYHM is a foreign public accounting firm as defined by Section 106 of Sarbanes-Oxley. 

       6.      KPMG Huazhen (or “KPMG”) is a special general partnership providing audit and 
professional services in the PRC.  KPMG Huazhen is located in Beijing, China, and is a member 
firm  of  KPMG  International  Cooperative  (“KPMG  International”),  a  Swiss  entity.    KPMG 
Huazhen is a foreign public accounting firm as defined by Section 106 of Sarbanes-Oxley. 

       7.      PwC Shanghai (or “Pricewaterhouse”) is a special general partnership providing 
audit and professional services in the PRC.  PwC Shanghai is headquartered in Shanghai, China, 
and is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (“PwCIL”), a UK private 
company limited by guarantee.  PwC Shanghai is a foreign public accounting firm as defined by 
Section 106 of Sarbanes-Oxley. 

 

                                                 
4
 In the event of a Restart, as set forth more fully in Section III.I of this Order, this Order and the findings 
herein shall be without prejudice to any claims, arguments, or defenses that a Settling Respondent or the 
Division may assert in connection with the petitions for review or in any other proceeding that does not 
arise under paragraph 3 or paragraph 4 of Section III.J of this Order, except that the facts set forth in 
Annex A shall remain admitted by the Settling Respondents for all purposes.  In the event of a Restart, the 
findings in Sections III.F and III.G of this Order shall be vacated as to any Settling Respondent for whom 
the Current Proceeding is restarted.  In no event, however, may any Settling Respondent recover any 
payment made under Section III.H of this Order. 

                                                   4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                                
C.     OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES 

       8.     DTTC Client A (“DTTC Client A”) is a public company the securities of which are 
registered with the SEC under Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 
Act”) and listed on NASDAQ.  DTTC Client A is incorporated in the Province of Ontario, Canada 
and has its principal operations and principal place of business in the PRC.   DTTC Client A 
designs and manufactures solar products. 

       9.     EYHM  Client  B  (“Client  B”)  is  a  Delaware  corporation  with  its  principal 
operations and principal  place of business in the PRC.  Client B’s securities were previously 
registered with the SEC under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and listed on NASDAQ.  Client 
B purports to be a leading developer, manufacturer and distributor of organic compound fertilizers 
in China. 

       10.    EYHM Client C  (“Client C”) is a Cayman Islands corporation with its primary 
operations in Beijing, PRC.  Client C’s securities were previously registered with the SEC pursuant 
to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act  and listed on NASDAQ.   Client C purports to  provide 
enhanced recovery services for oil and gas exploration. 

       11.    KPMG Huazhen Client D (“Client D”) is a Delaware corporation with its primary 
operations in Xi’an, PRC. Client D’s securities were previously registered with the SEC pursuant 
to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and listed on NASDAQ.  Client D purports to engage in the 
wholesale distribution of finished oil and heavy oil products, the production and sale of biodiesel, 
and the operation of retail gas stations.   

       12.    KPMG Huazhen Client E (“Client E”) is a Nevada corporation with its primary 
operations in Ningbo, PRC.  Client E’s securities are registered with the SEC pursuant to Section 
12(g)  of  the  Exchange  Act  and  were  previously  listed  on  NASDAQ.    Client  E  purports  to 
manufacture and supply various petrochemical products in China. 

       13.    KPMG Huazhen Client F (“Client F”) is a Nevada corporation, with its primary 
operations  in  Shanghai,  PRC.    Client  F’s  securities  were  previously  registered  with  the  SEC 
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and listed on NASDAQ.  Client F purports to 
manufacture chemical additives used in the production of consumer and industrial products. 

       14.    DTTC Client G (“Client G”) is a Wyoming corporation with its primary operations 
in Beijing, PRC.  Client G’s securities were previously registered with the SEC pursuant to Section 
12(g) of the Exchange Act and listed on NYSE.  Client G purports to design, manufacture, and sell 
offset printing equipment. 

       15.    PwC Shanghai Client  H  (“Client H”) is  a  Cayman  Islands corporation  with  its 
principal operations in the PRC.  Client H’s securities are registered with the SEC under Section 
12(g) of the Exchange Act and were previously listed on NASDAQ.  Client H purports to own and 
operate a commercial vehicle financing and service centers network. 

                                               5 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                                                  
       16.    PwC  Shanghai  Client  I  (“Client  I”)  is  a  Nevada  corporation  with  its  primary 
operations in Beijing, PRC.  Client I’s securities were previously registered with the SEC under 
Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and listed on NASDAQ.  Client I purports to manufacture 
automotive electrical parts in China. 

D.     FACTS   CONCERNING  COMMMISSION  REQUESTS   TO   THE  SETTLING 
       RESPONDENTS UNDER SARBANES-OXLEY 

           1.  Regulatory Background 

       17.    Section 106 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, before it was amended by Dodd-
Frank in 2010, stated, in relevant part, that “If a foreign public accounting firm issues an opinion or 
otherwise performs material services upon which a registered public accounting firm  relies in 
issuing all or part of any audit report or any opinion contained in an audit report, that foreign public 
accounting firm shall be deemed to have consented . . . to produce its audit workpapers for the 
Board or the Commission in connection with any investigation by either body with respect to that 
audit report . . . .”  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Public Company Accounting Reform and Investor 
Protection Act), Pub. L. No. 107-204 § 106(b). 

       18.    In 2004, the Board posted Frequently Asked Questions to its website which stated, 
in part:  “A registered firm’s failure to cooperate with Board requests [for production of documents 
under  Sarbanes-Oxley  Section  106]  may  subject  the  firm  to  disciplinary  sanctions,  including 
substantial civil money penalties and revocation of the firm’s registration. In the staff’s view, if a 
firm fails to cooperate with the Board, the fact that the firm has not obtained a client consent that 
might be necessary (under non-U.S. law) to allow the firm to cooperate is not a defense to  a 
disciplinary action for failure to cooperate.” 

       19.    Section 106(b)(1) of Sarbanes-Oxley, as amended by Dodd-Frank, states that: “[i]f 
a  foreign  public  accounting  firm  performs  material  services  upon  which  a  registered  public 
accounting firm relies in the conduct of an audit or interim review, issues an audit report, performs 
audit work, or conducts interim reviews, the foreign public accounting firm shall . . . produce the 
audit workpapers of the foreign public accounting firm and all other documents of the firm related 
to any such audit work or interim review to the Commission or the Board, upon request of the 
Commission or the Board . . . .” 

           2.  Requests To DTTC 

                                                    5
       20.    On or around April 16, 2004, DTTC        applied for registration  with the  PCAOB as 
required by Sarban es- Oxley, 15 U.S.C. § 7212.  The Board confirmed DTTC’s registration as a 
foreign public accounting firm in a letter dated June 4, 2004.  DTTC has remained registered with 
the Board since that time. 

                                                 
5
  On  January  1,  2013,  Deloitte  Touche  Tohmatsu  Certified  Public  Accountants  LLP  filed  with  the 
PCAOB a notification on Form 4 that Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Certified Public Accountants LLP had 
succeeded to the registration status of its predecessor, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd. 

                                                6 
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                                                 
       21.    DTTC knew when it registered with the PCAOB that the PCAOB or the SEC could 
request documents under Section 106, as originally enacted as part of Sarbanes-Oxley. 

       22.    DTTC knew when it registered with the PCAOB that there were possible conflicts 
between its obligations under U.S. and Chinese law.  DTTC described possible conflicts of law in 
its April 16, 2004 PCAOB registration filing that included a legal opinion. 

       23.    The  Board’s  June  4,  2004  letter  confirming  DTTC’s  registration  stated  that, 
although  DTTC  had  not  provided  with  its  application  a  “Consent  to  Cooperate”  with  Board 
inspections and requests for documents, “the Board’s approval of Deloitte’s registration . . . does 
not relieve Deloitte of the obligation to cooperate in and comply with Board demands (including 
for  documents  or  testimony)  and  to  enforce  such  cooperation  and  compliance  by  Deloitte 
associated  persons.    If  Deloitte  prepares  or  issues,  or  plays  a  substantial  role  in  preparing  or 
issuing, an audit report with respect to any issuer . . . U.S. law and the Board’s rules impose 
cooperation and compliance requirements that apply to Deloitte despite the absence of a consent.” 

       24.    In June 2011, pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley Section 106(d), as amended by Dodd-
Frank, DTTC designated Deloitte & Touche LLP (“DTT US”), the United States member firm of 
DTT Global, as its agent for receiving service of document requests under Section 106.  In so 
doing, DTTC confirmed its understanding that the PCAOB or the SEC could request documents 
under Section 106. 

       25.    DTTC knew at all relevant times that it was possible that it could not, consistent 
with Chinese law, produce documents directly to the SEC in response to requests for documents 
under Sarbanes-Oxley Section 106.  DTTC also knew, no later than upon the enactment of Dodd-
Frank, in 2010, and at all times subsequent, that the Commission retained power to deny DTTC the 
privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission to the extent DTTC willfully refused to 
comply with requests for documents under Sarbanes-Oxley Section 106. 

       26.    In the PCAOB reporting years 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013, DTTC issued audit 
reports  for  thirty-two  (32),  forty-five  (45),  forty-five  (45),  and  thirty-nine  (39)  U.S.  issuers, 
respectively. 

       27.    DTTC audited DTTC Client A’s financial statements for the fiscal years ended 
December 31, 2008, 2009, and 2010.  DTTC Client A remained DTTC’s client as of April 2013. 

       28.    Before  April  9,  2010,  the  Division  commenced  an  investigation  into  potential 
accounting  fraud  involving  DTTC  Client  A,  which  Client  A  disclosed  in  a  Form  6-K  and 
accompanying press release filed with the Commission on June 1, 2010.  In the press release, 
DTTC Client A announced that it was postponing the release of its full financial results for the 
quarter ended March 31, 2010 and its quarterly conference call, scheduled for June 2, as a result of 
the commencement of an investigation by the Audit Committee of DTTC Client A’s Board of 
Directors.  DTTC Client A disclosed that “the investigation was launched after the Company 
received a subpoena from the [Commission] requesting documents from [DTTC Client A] relating 
to, among other things, certain sales transactions in 2009.” 

                                               7 
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

                                                 
       29.    On March 11, 2011, the Division properly served on DTTC a Commission request 
under Section 106 for the production of “[a]ll audit work papers and all other documents related to 
any audit  work or interim reviews performed for [DTTC  Client A] for the fiscal year ending 
December 31, 2009” (the “Client A Request”). 

       30.    By letter dated April 29, 2011, DTTC, through its U.S. counsel, responded to the 
Client A Request.  DTTC stated in the letter that the laws and regulations of the PRC prohibited 
the  firm  from  providing  the  SEC  directly  with  the  requested  audit  workpapers  and  related 
documents.  DTTC did not include any of the requested audit workpapers or related documents 
with its response. 

       31.    In July 2011, the Division issued to DTTC a Wells notice that the Division intended 
to recommend institution of proceedings against DTTC because, in the Division’s view, DTTC had 
willfully refused to comply with the Client A Request. 

       32.    DTTC was engaged to audit the financial statements of Client G for the fiscal year 
ended June 30, 2010.  In the course of this engagement, DTTC performed audit work on behalf of 
Client G related to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010.  DTTC did not issue any audit report with 
respect to Client G. 

       33.    In 2010, Division staff opened an investigation involving Client G, which related to 
matters reported in a Form 8-K filed by Client G on September 13, 2010.   Specifically, Client G 
reported that: 

              a.  Client G had terminated DTTC’s engagement as independent auditor effective 
                  September 6, 2010; 

              b.  During the course of DTTC’s audit of Client G for the fiscal year ended June 
                  30, 2010, Client G had denied DTTC’s request for permission to access original 
                  bank statements to verify the identity of certain individuals and entities; 

              c.  Several “reportable events,” as defined in Item 304(a)(1)(v) of Regulation S-K, 
                  occurred during DTTC’s audit of Client G; and  

              d.  Between  September  6  and  September  8,  2010,  Client  G’s  CEO,  CFO,  and 
                  several directors, including the Chair of its Audit Committee, all resigned their 
                  positions. 

       34.    On  February  14,  2012,  the  Division  properly  served  on  DTTC  a  Commission 
request under Section 106 for the production of “[a]ll audit work papers and all other documents 
related to any audit work or interim reviews performed for [Client G] for the fiscal year ended June 
30, 2010” (the “Client G Request”). 

       35.    By letter dated April 17, 2012, DTTC, through its U.S. counsel, responded to the 
Client G Request.  DTTC stated in the letter that the laws and regulations of the PRC prohibited 

                                               8 
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

                                                 
the  firm  from  providing  the  SEC  directly  with  the  requested  audit  workpapers  and  related 
documents.  DTTC did not include any of the requested audit workpapers or related documents 
with its response. 

       36.    In  April  2012,  the  Division  issued  to  DTTC  a  Wells  notice  that  the  Division 
intended to recommend institution of proceedings against DTTC because, in the Division’s view, 
DTTC had willfully refused to comply with the Client G Request. 

       37.    On  May  9,  2012  and  December  3,  2012,  the  Commission  instituted  these 
proceedings against DTTC under Rule 102(e) based on DTTC’s conduct with respect to the Client 
A Request and the Client G Request, respectively.  DTTC did not produce audit workpapers and 
related documents responsive to either request to the Commission before the December 3, 2012 
OIP. 

       38.    In  2013,  DTTC  provided  documents  related  to  DTTC  Client  A  to  the  China 
Securities Regulatory Commission (“CSRC”), in response to a request that DTTC had received 
from the CSRC.  In November 2013, DTTC audit workpapers concerning DTTC Client A were 
provided by the CSRC to the SEC. 

       39.    In 2013, DTTC provided documents related to Client G to the CSRC, in response to 
a request that DTTC had received from the CSRC.  In October 2013, DTTC audit workpapers and 
related documents concerning Client G were provided by the CSRC to the SEC. 

           3.  Requests To EYHM 

                                                    6
       40.    On or around May 25, 2004, EYHM         applied for registration with the PCAOB   as 
required by Sarbanes- Oxley, 15 U.S.C. § 7212.  The PCAOB     confirmed EYHM   ’s registration as a 
foreign public accounting firm in a letter dated July 8, 2004.  EYHM has remained registered with 
the PCAOB since that time. 

       41.    EYHM knew when it registered with the PCAOB that the PCAOB or the SEC 
could request documents under Section 106, as originally enacted as part of Sarbanes-Oxley. 

       42.    EYHM knew when it registered with the PCAOB that there were possible conflicts 
between its obligations under U.S. and Chinese law.  EYHM described possible conflicts of law in 
its May 25, 2004 PCAOB registration filing that included a legal opinion. 

       43.    The  Board’s  July  8,  2004  letter  confirming  EYHM’s  registration  stated  that, 
although  EYHM  had  not  provided  with  its  application  a  “Consent  to  Cooperate”  with  Board 
inspections and requests for documents, “the Board’s approval of Ernst’s registration . . . does not 
relieve Ernst of the obligation to cooperate in and comply with Board demands (including for 

                                                 
6
   On September 3, 2012, Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP filed with the Public Company Accounting 
Oversight Board a notification on Form 4 that Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP had succeeded to the 
registration status of its predecessor, Ernst & Young Hua Ming Certified Public Accountants. 

                                                9 
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

                                                
documents or testimony) and to enforce such cooperation and compliance by Ernst’s associated 
persons.  If Ernst prepares or issues, or plays a substantial role in preparing or issuing, an audit 
report with respect to any issuer . . . U.S. law and the Board’s rules impose cooperation and 
compliance requirements that apply to Ernst despite the absence of a consent.” 

       44.    In March 2011, pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley Section 106(d), as amended by Dodd-
Frank, EYHM designated Ernst & Young LLP (“EY US”), the United States member firm of EY 
Global, as its agent for receiving service of document requests under Section 106.  In so doing, 
EYHM confirmed its understanding that the PCAOB or the SEC could request documents under 
Section 106. 

       45.    EYHM knew at all relevant times that it was possible that it could not, consistent 
with Chinese law, produce documents directly to the SEC in response to requests for documents 
under Sarbanes-Oxley Section 106.  EYHM also knew, no later than upon the enactment of Dodd-
Frank, in 2010, and at all times subsequent, that that the Commission retained the power to deny 
EYHM  the  privilege  of  appearing  or  practicing  before  the  Commission  to  the  extent  EYHM 
willfully refused to comply with requests for documents under Sarbanes-Oxley Section 106. 

       46.    In the PCAOB reporting years 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013, EYHM issued audit 
reports  for  eleven  (11),  twenty-four  (24),  twenty-one  (21),  and  twenty  (20)  U.S.  issuers, 
respectively. 

       47.    EYHM was engaged to audit the financial statements of Client B for the fiscal year 
ended December 31, 2010.   In the course of this engagement, EYHM performed audit work on 
behalf of Client B related to the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010.  EYHM did not issue an 
audit report on Client B’s financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. 

       48.    In  March  2011,  the  Division  opened  an  investigation  into  Client  B.    The 
investigation related to, among other things, public allegations of potential accounting fraud and 
misleading disclosures by Client B, including overstated revenues, falsified assets and customer 
relationships, and failure to disclose certain related party transactions.   

       49.    On April 26, 2012, the Division properly served on EYHM a Commission request 
under Section 106 for the production of “[a]ll audit work papers and all other documents related to 
any audit work or interim reviews performed for [Client B] for the fiscal year ending December 31, 
2010” (the “Client B Request”). 

       50.    By letter dated May 25, 2012, EYHM, through its U.S. counsel, responded to the 
Client B Request.  EYHM stated in the letter that the laws and regulations of the PRC prohibited 
the  firm  from  providing  the  SEC  directly  with  the  requested  audit  workpapers  and  related 
documents.  EYHM did not include any of the requested audit workpapers or related documents 
with its response. 

                                              10 
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

                                                
       51.    In  June  2012,  the  Division  issued  to  EYHM  a  Wells  notice  that  the  Division 
intended to recommend institution of proceedings against EYHM because, in the Division’s view, 
EYHM had willfully refused to comply with the Client B Request. 

       52.    EYHM audited Client C’s financial statements for the fiscal year ended September 
30, 2010. 

       53.    By  September  2011,  Division  staff  opened  an  investigation  involving  potential 
financial and accounting fraud at Client C.  The investigation stemmed from a short seller report 
regarding Client C, and from a letter that EYHM submitted to the Commission, pursuant to Section 
10A of the Exchange Act, upon its resignation as Client C’s auditor in September 2011.  The two 
primary subjects of the investigation were possible accounting fraud related to asset valuation, and 
embezzlement by Client C’s chairman. 

       54.    On  February  2,  2012,  the  Division  properly  served  on  EYHM  a  Commission 
request under Section 106 for the production of “[a]ll audit work papers and all other documents 
related to any audit work or interim reviews performed for [Client C] for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2010 and subsequent periods” (the “Client C Request”). 

       55.    By letter dated April 4, 2012, EYHM, through its U.S. counsel, responded to the 
Client C Request.  EYHM stated in the letter that the laws and regulations of the PRC prohibited 
the  firm  from  providing  the  SEC  directly  with  the  requested  audit  workpapers  and  related 
documents.  EYHM did not include any of the requested audit workpapers or related documents 
with its response. 

       56.    In  April  2012,  the  Division  issued  to  EYHM  a  Wells  notice  that  the  Division 
intended to recommend institution of proceedings against EYHM because, in the Division’s view, 
EYHM had willfully refused to comply with the Client C Request. 

       57.    On December 3, 2012, the Commission instituted these proceedings against EYHM 
under Rule 102(e) based on EYHM’s conduct with respect to the Client B Request and the Client 
C Request.  EYHM did not produce any documents responsive to either request to the Commission 
before the December 3, 2012 OIP. 

       58.    In November 2013, EYHM audit workpapers and related documents concerning 
Client  C  were  received  by  the  Commission  from  the  CSRC.    In  March  2014,  EYHM  audit 
workpapers and related documents concerning Client B were provided to the Commission by the 
CSRC. 

            

            

            

                                              11 
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

                                                 
           4.  Requests To KPMG Huazhen 

                                                               7
       59.    On or around April 26, 2004, KPMG Huazhen         applied for registration with the 
PCAOB     as  required  by  Sarbanes- Oxley,  15  U.S.C.  §  7212.    The  Board  confirmed KPMG 
Huazhen ’s registration as a foreign public accounting firm in a letter dated July 13, 2004.  KPMG 
Huazhen has remained registered with the Board since that time. 

       60.    KPMG Huazhen knew when it registered with the PCAOB that the PCAOB or the 
SEC could request documents under Section 106, as originally enacted as part of Sarbanes-Oxley. 

       61.    KPMG Huazhen knew when it registered with the PCAOB that there were possible 
conflicts between its obligations under U.S. and Chinese law.  KPMG Huazhen described possible 
conflicts of law in its April 26, 2004 PCAOB registration filing that included a legal opinion. 

       62.    The Board’s July 13, 2004 letter confirming KPMG Huazhen’s registration stated 
that, although KPMG Huazhen had not provided with its application a “Consent to Cooperate” 
with Board inspections and requests for documents, “the Board’s approval of KPMG’s registration 
. . . does not relieve KPMG of the obligation to cooperate in and comply with Board demands 
(including  for  documents  or  testimony)  and  to  enforce  such  cooperation  and  compliance  by 
KPMG’s associated persons.  If KPMG prepares or issues, or plays a substantial role in preparing 
or issuing, an audit report with respect to any issuer . . . U.S. law and the Board’s rules impose 
cooperation and compliance requirements that apply to KPMG despite the absence of a consent.” 

       63.    In March 2011, pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley Section 106(d), as amended by Dodd-
Frank, KPMG Huazhen designated KPMG LLP (“KPMG US”), the United States member firm of 
KPMG International, as its agent for receiving service of document requests under Section 106.  In 
so doing, KPMG Huazhen confirmed its understanding that the PCAOB or the SEC could request 
documents under Section 106. 

       64.    KPMG Huazhen knew at all relevant times that it was possible that it could not, 
consistent with Chinese law, produce documents directly to the SEC in response to requests for 
documents under Sarbanes-Oxley Section 106.  KPMG Huazhen also knew, no later than upon the 
enactment of Dodd-Frank, in 2010, and at all times subsequent, that the Commission retained the 
power to deny KPMG Huazhen the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission to 
the  extent  KPMG  Huazhen  willfully  refused  to  comply  with  requests  for  documents  under 
Sarbanes-Oxley Section 106. 

       65.    In  the  PCAOB  reporting  years  2010,  2011,  2012,  and  2013,  KPMG  Huazhen 
played a substantial role in the preparation or furnishing of audit reports filed with the SEC (as 

                                                 
7
   On August 14, 2012, KPMG Huazhen (Special General Partnership) filed with the Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board a notification on Form 4 that KPMG Huazhen (Special General Partnership) 
had succeeded to the registration status of its predecessor, KPMG Huazhen. 

                                               12 
 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

                                                  
                                      8
defined by PCAOB Rule 1001(p)(ii))      for twenty - four  (24) , twenty- three   (23) , twenty- five  (25) , 
and twenty - one  (21) U.S. issuers, respectively.    

       66.    KPMG Huazhen was engaged as a component auditor for Client D for the fiscal 
year ended December 31, 2010.  In the course of this engagement,  KPMG Huazhen played a 
substantial role with respect to the audit of Client D related to the fiscal year ended December 31, 
2010. 

       67.    By April 2011, the Division opened an investigation into potential accounting fraud 
at Client D.  The investigation concerned allegations made in two short seller reports issued in 
March 2011, which  claimed that Client D’s financial statements reported false cash balances, 
overstated revenues, and failed to disclose a material related party transaction. 

                                                                                                  
       68.    On  February   6,  2012,  the  Division  properly  served  on  KPMG   Huazhen a 
Commission request under Section 106 for the production of “[a]ll audit work papers and all other 
documents related to any audit work or interim reviews performed for [Client D] for the fiscal year 
ending December 31, 2010” (the “Client D Request”). 

       69.    KPMG Huazhen was engaged as a component auditor for Client E for the fiscal 
year ended December 31, 2010.  In the course of this engagement,  KPMG Huazhen played a 
substantial role with respect to the audit of Client E related to the fiscal year ended December 31, 
2010, but did not complete the engagement. 

       70.    By April 2011, Division staff opened an investigation into potential financial and 
accounting fraud at Client E.  The investigation concerned issues raised in a Form 8-K that Client 
E filed in April 2011, which stated that Client E would be unable to file its Form 10-K on time 
because  Client  E’s  principal  auditor  had  identified  “unexplained  issues  regarding  certain  cash 
transactions and recorded sales.” 

                                                                                                  
       71.    On  February   9,  2012,  the  Division  properly  served  on  KPMG   Huazhen a 
Commission request under Section 106 for the production of “[a]ll audit work papers and all other 
documents related to any audit work or interim reviews performed for [Client E] for the fiscal year 
ending December 31, 2010” (the “Client E Request”). 

       72.    KPMG Huazhen was engaged as a component auditor for Client F for the fiscal 
years ended December 31, 2008, and December 31, 2009.  In the course of this engagement, 
KPMG Huazhen played a substantial role with respect to the audit reports Client F filed with the 
Commission related to the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009. 

                                                 
8
 PCAOB Rule 1001(p)(ii) defines “Play a Substantial Role in the Preparation or Furnishing of an Audit 
Report” to mean:  “(1) to perform material services that a public accounting firm uses or relies on in 
issuing all or part of its audit report with respect to any issuer, or (2) to perform the majority of the audit 
procedures with respect to a subsidiary or component of any issuer the assets or revenues of which 
constitute 20% or more of the consolidated assets or revenues of such issuer necessary for the principal 
accountant to issue an audit report on the issuer.” 

                                                13 
 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

                                                  
       73.    Before February 2012, Division staff opened an investigation involving potential 
financial and accounting fraud at Client F.  The investigation related to issues raised in a pair of 
disclosures made by Client F in early 2011: 

               a.  In   March  2011,  Client   F   disclosed   that   it   was   conducting   an   internal 
                   investigation into “potentially serious discrepancies” in its financial statements 
                   for the year ended December 31, 2010, and 

               b.  In May 2011, Client F disclosed that its principal auditor had resigned after 
                   identifying  what  they  considered  “potentially  serious  discrepancies  and/or 
                   unexplained issues relating to [Client F]’s financial records,” in response to 
                   which Client F failed to take adequate remedial action. 

                                                                                                  
       74.    On  February   3,  2012,  the  Division  properly  served  on  KPMG   Huazhen a 
Commission request under Section 106 for the production of “[a]ll audit work papers and all other 
documents related to any audit reports issued, audit work performed, or interim reviews conducted 
for [Client F] from January 1, 2008 to the present” (the “Client F Request”). 

       75.    By  letter  dated  March  27,  2012,  KPMG  Huazhen,  through  its  U.S.  counsel, 
responded to the  Client D Request, the Client E Request, and the Client F Request.   KPMG 
         
Huazhen stated in the letter that the laws and regulations of the PRC prohibited the firm from 
providing the SEC directly with any of the requested audit workpapers and related documents.  
                 
KPMG Huazhen did not include any of the requested audit workpapers or related documents with 
its March 27 response. 

                                                                          
       76.    In  May  2012,  the  Division  issued  to  KPMG  Huazhen a  Wells  notice  that  the 
                                                                                     
Division intended to recommend institution of proceedings against KPMG Huazhenbecause, in the 
                                   
Division’s view, KPMG Huazhen had willfully refused to comply with the Client D Request, the 
Client E Request, and the Client F Request. 

       77.    On December 3, 2012, the Commission instituted these proceedings against KPMG 
         
Huazhen under Rule 102(e) based on KPMG Huazhen’s conduct with respect to the Client D 
                                                                              
Request, the Client E Request, and the Client F Request.  KPMG Huazhen did not produce audit 
workpapers or related documents responsive to any of the requests to the Commission before the 
December 3, 2012 OIP. 

           5.  Requests To PwC Shanghai 

                                                               9
       78.    On  or  around  April  26,  2004,  PwC  Shanghai   applied  for  registration  with  the 
PCAOB     as  required  by  Sarbanes- Oxley,  15  U.S.C.  §  7212.    The PCAOB    confirmed  PwC 

                                                   
9
  On July 8, 2013, PricewaterhouseCoopers Zhong Tian LLP filed with the Public Company Accounting 
Oversight Board a notification on Form 4 that PricewaterhouseCoopers Zhong Tian LLP had succeeded 
to  the  registration  status  of  its  predecessor,  PricewaterhouseCoopers  Zhong  Tian  CPAs  Limited 
Company.   

                                                14 
 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

                                                
Shanghai’s registration as a foreign public accounting firm in a letter dated July 13, 2004.  PwC 
         
Shanghaihas remained registered with the Board since that time. 

                              
       79.    PwC Shanghai knew when it registered with the PCAOB that the PCAOB or the 
SEC could request documents under Section 106, as originally enacted as part of Sarbanes-Oxley. 

                              
       80.    PwC Shanghai knew when it registered with the PCAOB that there were possible 
                                                                              
conflicts between its obligations under U.S. and Chinese law.  PwC Shanghai described possible 
conflicts of law in its April 26, 2004 PCAOB registration filing that included a legal opinion. 

       81.    The Board’s July 13, 2004 letter confirming  PwC Shanghai’s registration stated 
                             
that, although PwC Shanghai had not provided with its application a “Consent to Cooperate” with 
Board  inspections  and  requests  for  documents,  “the  Board’s  approval  of  Pricewaterhouse’s 
registration . . . does not relieve Pricewaterhouse of the obligation to cooperate in and comply with 
Board  demands  (including  for  documents  or  testimony)  and  to  enforce  such  cooperation  and 
compliance by Pricewaterhouse’s associated persons.  If Pricewaterhouse prepares or issues, or 
plays a substantial role in preparing or issuing, an audit report with respect to any issuer . . . U.S. 
law  and  the  Board’s  rules  impose  cooperation  and  compliance  requirements  that  apply  to 
Pricewaterhouse despite the absence of a consent.” 

       82.    In March 2011, pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley Section 106(d), as amended by Dodd-
                      
Frank, PwC Shanghai designated PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC US”), the United States 
member firm of PwCIL, as its agent for receiving service of document requests under Section 106.  
                           
In so doing, PwC Shanghaiconfirmed its understanding that the PCAOB or the SEC could request 
documents under Section 106. 

                              
       83.    PwC Shanghaiknew at all relevant times it was possible that it could not, consistent 
with Chinese law, produce documents directly to the SEC in response to requests for documents 
under Sarbanes-Oxley Section 106.  PwC Shanghai also knew, no later than upon the enactment of 
Dodd-Frank, in 2010, and at all times subsequent, that the Commission retained the power to deny 
PwC Shanghai the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission to the extent PwC 
Shanghai willfully refused to comply with requests for documents under Sarbanes-Oxley Section 
106. 

                                                                                          
       84.    In the PCAOB reporting years 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013, PwC Shanghai issued 
audit reports for seventeen (17), twenty-seven (27), thirty-one (31), and twenty-three (23) U.S. 
issuers, respectively. 

       85.    PwC Shanghai was engaged to audit the financial statements of Client H for the 
fiscal year ended December 31, 2010.  In the course of this engagement, PwC Shanghai performed 
audit work on behalf of Client H related to  the fiscal  year ended  December 31, 2010.   PwC 
Shanghai did not issue any audit report with respect to Client H. 

       86.    By March 2011, the Division opened an investigation into potential accounting 
fraud at Client H.  The investigation concerned public allegations of accounting fraud and market 

                                              15 
 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

                                                 
manipulation at Client  H.  Certain internet reports  alleged, among other things, that Client H 
overstated revenue and earnings by accounting for lease revenues upfront instead of recognizing 
this revenue over the duration of the leases, and that there were discrepancies between Client H’s 
cash flow and reported net income. 

                                                                                   
       87.    On February 8, 2012, the Division properly served on PwC Shanghaia Commission 
request under Section 106 for the production of “[a]ll audit work papers and all other documents 
related to any audit work or interim reviews performed for [Client H] for the fiscal year ending 
December 31, 2010” (the “Client H Request”). 

       88.    By letter dated April 12, 2012, PwC Shanghai, through its U.S. counsel, responded 
                                        
to the Client H Request.  PwC Shanghaistated in the letter that the laws and regulations of the PRC 
prohibited  the firm from providing the SEC directly with the requested  audit workpapers and 
                                   
related documents.  PwC Shanghaidid not include any of the requested audit workpapers or related 
documents with its response. 

       89.    In April 2012, the Division issued to PwC Shanghai a Wells notice that the Division 
intended to recommend institution of proceedings against PwC Shanghai because, in the Division’s 
view, PwC Shanghai had willfully refused to comply with the Client H Request. 

                              
       90.    PwC Shanghai was engaged to audit the financial statements of Client I for the 
fiscal year ended December 31, 2010.  In the course of this engagement, PwC Shanghai performed 
audit  work  on  behalf  of  Client  I  related  to  the  fiscal  year  ended  December  31,  2010.    PwC 
Shanghai did not issue any audit report with respect to Client I. 

       91.    By March 2011, Division staff opened an investigation involving potential financial 
and accounting fraud at Client I.  The investigation focused on potential accounting irregularities, 
undisclosed   related   party   transactions,   misappropriation   of   corporate   assets,   and   market 
manipulation. 

                                                                                   
       92.    On March 22, 2012, the Division properly served on PwC Shanghai a Commission 
request under Section 106 for the production of “[a]ll audit work papers and all other documents 
related to any audit work performed for [Client I] for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010” 
(the “Client I Request”). 

       93.    By letter dated April 12, 2012, PwC Shanghai, through its U.S. counsel, responded 
                                       
to the Client I Request.  PwC Shanghaistated in the letter that the laws and regulations of the PRC 
prohibited  the firm from providing the SEC directly with the requested  audit workpapers and 
                                   
related documents.  PwC Shanghaidid not include any of the requested audit workpapers or related 
documents with its response. 

                                                                   
       94.    In April 2012, the Division issued to PwC Shanghaia Wells notice that the Division 
                                                                        
intended to recommend institution of proceedings against PwC Shanghaibecause, in the Division’s 
                     
view, PwC Shanghaihad willfully refused to comply with the Client I Request. 

                                               16 
 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

                                                
       95.    On December 3, 2012, the Commission instituted these proceedings against PwC 
         
Shanghai under  Rule  102(e)  based  on  PwC  Shanghai’s  conduct  with  respect  to  the  Client  H 
                                                  
Request and the Client I Request.  PwC Shanghai did not produce audit workpapers and related 
documents responsive to either request to the Commission before the December 3, 2012 OIP. 

       96.    In   November   2013,   PwC   Shanghai   produced   audit   workpapers   and   related 
documents concerning Client I to the CSRC, in response to a request that PwC Shanghai had 
received from the CSRC.  In March 2014, PwC Shanghai audit workpapers and related documents 
concerning Client I were provided by the CSRC to the SEC. 

E.     FACTS CONCERNING COMMISSION REQUESTS FOR ASSISTANCE UNDER 
       INTERNATIONAL SHARING PROTOCOLS 

       97.    Before the December 3, 2012 OIP, in connection with Division investigations, the 
SEC’s  Office  of  International  Affairs  sent  a  number  of  requests  for  assistance  to  the  CSRC 
pursuant  to  the  International  Organization  of  Securities  Commissions  (“IOSCO”)  Multilateral 
Memorandum  of  Understanding  (“MMOU”),  seeking  DTTC’s  audit  workpapers  and  related 
documents concerning certain of the firm’s clients.  The SEC did not receive any of the requested 
documents before the December 3, 2012 OIP.  Meanwhile, the SEC issued the nine requests under 
Section 106 of Sarbanes-Oxley to the Settling Respondents, as described above in Section III.D, 
among other Section 106 requests. 

       98.    In July 2013, after the start of the hearing in this proceeding, the CSRC produced to 
the SEC a set of DTTC’s audit workpapers concerning a firm client that is unrelated to Clients A 
through I listed above.  The SEC had requested these workpapers from the CSRC before the 
December 3, 2012 OIP.  The July 2013 production was the first time that the CSRC provided audit 
                                                              10
workpapers to the SEC under any international sharing protocols.    

       99.    After the July 2013 production, the SEC received productions from the CSRC for 
DTTC Clients A and G, in response to requests that the SEC had made under the IOSCO MMOU 
before the May 9, 2012 OIP.  Also after the July 2013 production, the SEC sought and received 
productions from the CSRC for EYHM Clients B and C, and PwC Shanghai Client I, as described 
above in Section III.D.  To date, the SEC has not sought the assistance of the CSRC in obtaining 
audit workpapers and related documents for KPMG Huazhen’s Client D, Client E, and Client F, or 
for PwC Shanghai Client H. 

        

                                                 
10
  The audit workpapers produced by the CSRC in July 2013, concerning DTTC client Longtop Financial 
Technologies Limited (“Longtop”), were also the subject of a subpoena enforcement action brought by 
the SEC against DTTC in federal district court, SEC v. DTTC, 1:11mc00512-GK (D.D.C.).  That action 
was dismissed without prejudice following supplemental productions of DTTC documents received by 
the SEC from the CSRC in January 2014.  DTTC’s non-production of the Longtop documents directly to 
the SEC is not the basis of any Division claim against DTTC in this proceeding. 

                                              17 
 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

                                                    
F.     VIOLATIONS 

       100.   As noted, Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides that 
“[t]he Commission may censure a person or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
appearing or practicing before it in any way to any person who is found . . . [t]o have willfully 
violated . . . any provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.”  
                                11
17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(1)(iii).    Rule 102(e) “provides the Commission with a means to ensure 
that the professionals on whom it relies ‘perform their tasks diligently.’”  Marrie v. SEC, 374 F.3d 
1196, 1200 (D.C. Cir. 2004) (quoting Touche Ross & Co. v. SEC, 609 F.2d 570, 582 (2d Cir. 
1979)). The rule “is directed at protecting the integrity of the Commission’s own processes, as well 
as  the  confidence  of  the  investing  public  in  the  integrity  of  the  financial  reporting  process.”  
Marrie, 374 F.3d at 1200. 

       101.   Section 106(b) of Sarbanes-Oxley provides that a foreign public accounting firm 
that “performs audit work . . . shall . . . produce the audit  work papers of the foreign  public 
accounting firm and all other documents of the firm related to any such audit work . . . to the 
Commission . . . upon request of the Commission.”  15 U.S.C. § 7216(b)(1).  A foreign public 
                                                                                                12
accounting firm that willfully violates Section 106(b) is subject to sanction under Rule 102(e).   

       102.    Sarbanes-Oxley Section 106(e) identifies certain conduct that must be considered a 
violation under Section 106.  Specifically, Section 106(e) states that “[a] willful refusal to comply, 
in whole or in part, with any request by the Commission . . . under this section, shall be deemed a 
violation  of  this  Act.”    15  U.S.C.  §  7216(e).   Thus,  Rule  102(e)(1)(iii)  and  Section  106(e), 
considered   together,   provide   that   the   Commission   may   censure,   or   deny,  temporarily   or 
permanently,  the  privilege  of  appearing  or  practicing  before  it  in  any  way,  a  foreign  public 
accounting firm that is found to have willfully refused to comply with a Commission request for 
                                       13
documents covered by Section 106(b).        

       103.    During the relevant time period, each Settling Respondent was a  foreign public 
accounting firm.  In addition, the Commission properly served each Settling Respondent with at 
least two requests under Section 106(b) pertaining to clients or former clients as to which that 
Settling Respondent had “perform[ed] audit work.”   In response to these requests, the Settling 

                                                 
11
  Similarly, Section 4C of the Exchange Act provides, “The Commission may censure any person, or 
deny  temporarily  or  permanently,  to  any  person  the  privilege  of  appearing  or  practicing  before  the 
Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and 
abetted  the  violation  of,  any  provision  of  the  securities  laws  or  the  rules  and  regulations  issued 
thereunder.”  15 U.S.C. § 78d-3(a)(3). 
12
   Furthermore, under Section 3(b) of Sarbanes -Oxley, a violation of Section 106 is to be treated as a 
violation of the Exchange Act.  See 15 U.S.C. § 7202(b)(1) (“A violation . . . of this Act . . . shall be 
treated for all purposes in the same manner as a violation of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 . . . .”). 
13
  See Gearhart & Otis, Inc. v. SEC, 348 F.2d 798, 803 (D.C. Cir. 1965) (discussing meaning of 
“willfully” under Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act); Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414-415 (D.C. 
Cir. 2000). 

                                                 18 
 
---------------------Page 19---------------------

                                                
Respondents informed the Division in writing that they could not, consistent with Chinese law, 
produce documents directly to the Division.  The Division did not receive any of the requested 
audit workpapers or related documents before this Current Proceeding was instituted. 

G.     FINDINGS 

       104.   Based on the foregoing and for the purposes of this Order, the Commission finds 
that each Settling Respondent willfully refused to comply with the requests that were issued to it 
under Section 106, and each Settling Respondent willfully violated Section 106 of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act. 

H.     UNDERTAKINGS TO MAKE PAYMENTS  

       105.   Pursuant to the Offers, each Settling Respondent has undertaken to pay $500,000.   
The  Settling  Respondents  will  make  their  respective  payments  within  thirty  (30)  days  of  the 
issuance of this Order.  If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 
31 U.S.C. § 3717.  Payment shall be made in one of the following ways: 

       (1)    The Settling Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, 
              which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request; 

       (2)    The  Settling  Respondent  may  make  direct  payment  from  a  bank  account  via 
              Pay.gov through the SEC website at http:/www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm/htm; or 

       (3)    The  Settling  Respondent  may  pay  by  certified  check,  bank  cashier’s  check,  or 
              United States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
              Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to: 

                     Enterprise Services Center 
                     Accounts Receivable Branch 
                     HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                     6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                     Oklahoma City, OK  73169 

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying the Settling 
Respondent as a Respondent in this proceeding, and the file numbers of this proceeding; a copy of 
the cover letter and check or money order must be sent by overnight commercial mail service to 
David  Mendel,  Assistant  Chief  Litigation  Counsel,  Division  of  Enforcement,  Securities  and 
Exchange Commission, 100 F Street N.E., Mail Stop 5971, Washington, DC  20549-5971.  The 
Commission shall remit the funds paid pursuant to this paragraph to the United States Treasury.  In 
determining whether to accept the Offers, the Commission has considered this undertaking by 
Settling Respondents. 

 

                                              19 
 
---------------------Page 20---------------------

                                                 
 

I.      STAY OF THIS PROCEEDING 

       106.   In light of the Procedures and Undertakings as to Future Requests, And Possible 
Additional Proceedings and Remedies set forth below in Section III.J of this Order, this proceeding 
(the “Current Proceeding”) is stayed as follows: 

              a.  The stay applies to the Settling Respondents’ petition seeking review of the 
                  Initial Decision of the Administrative Law Judge, dated January 22, 2014 (the 
                  “Initial  Decision”),  and  to  the  Division’s  petition  for  review  of  the  Initial 
                  Decision’s handling of remedies as to the Settling Respondents, and to any 
                  federal court appeal from the result of either such petition for review. 

              b.  The stay is conditioned on the Current Proceeding not being restarted pursuant 
                  to paragraph 5 of Section III.J of this Order. 

              c.  In the event the Current Proceeding is restarted, the Commission may resolve 
                  all issues as to liability and remedies raised by the OIPs in this proceeding, 
                  including all defenses previously raised by the Settling Respondents, consistent 
                  with the Commission’s May 9, 2014 order granting the parties’ petitions for 
                  review in the Current Proceeding.  Under the Restart scenario, the Commission 
                  may resolve, among other issues, whether the OIP in the Current Proceeding 
                  was properly served on the Settling Respondents, whether the conduct of the 
                  Settling Respondents constitutes a willful violation of Section 106, and whether 
                  any  or  all  of  the  Settling  Respondents  should  be  censured  or  denied  the 
                  privilege  of  appearing  and  practicing  before  the  Commission  pursuant  to 
                  Section 106 of Sarbanes-Oxley and Rule 102(e).  Accordingly, in the event of a 
                  Restart, this Order and the findings herein shall be without prejudice to any 
                  claims, arguments, or defenses that a Settling Respondent or the Division may 
                  assert in connection with the petitions for review or in any other proceeding that 
                  does not arise under paragraph 3 or paragraph 4 of Section III.J of this Order, 
                  except that the facts set forth in Annex A (which are repeated in Section III, 
                  Sub-Sections B, C, and D of this Order) shall remain admitted by the Settling 
                  Respondents for all purposes.  Upon the Division’s filing of a notice that the 
                  Current Proceeding is restarted in accordance with paragraph 5 of Section III.J 
                  of this Order, the Current Proceeding will resume from its current status and the 
                  Commission will re-set  a briefing schedule for  consideration of the  parties’ 
                  respective petitions for review, as appropriate. 

              d.  Nothing in this Order, the Offers, or the undertakings shall derogate from the 
                  Settling Respondents’ rights to appeal any decision of the Commission in the 
                  Current Proceeding to the Federal Courts, and in any proceedings before the 
                  Commission or the Federal Courts to make all such arguments as are currently 
                  available to them.   Except for the facts that the Settling Respondents expressly 

                                               20 
 
---------------------Page 21---------------------

                                                 
                  agree to and admit in Annex A, which are repeated in Section III, Sub-Sections 
                  B, C, and D of this Order, nothing in this Order or the discussions leading to it 
                  may  be  used  as  an  admission  in  the  Current  Proceeding  in  the  event  it  is 
                  restarted. 

J.     PROCEDURES AND UNDERTAKINGS AS TO FUTURE REQUESTS, AND 
       POSSIBLE ADDITIONAL PROCEEDINGS AND REMEDIES 

1.    The Settling Respondents and the Division will abide by the procedures set forth in this 
     Section III.J of this Order with respect to future requests for documents covered by Section 
     106(b)  of  Sarbanes-Oxley  (“Procedures”),  during  the  four-year  period  prescribed  by 
     paragraph III.J.7 of this Order.  Nothing in the Procedures reflects a determination by the 
     Division or Commission as to the scope of obligations of any foreign public accounting firm 
     under  Section  106  of  Sarbanes-Oxley,  or  the  steps  the  Division  should  or  must  take  in 
     connection  with  a  foreign  public  accounting  firm’s  satisfaction  of  its  obligations  under 
     Section  106.    Requests  for  documents  under  these  Procedures  are  deemed  “covered  by 
     Section   106(b)   of   Sarbanes-Oxley”   without   regard   to   whether   the   relevant  Settling 
     Respondent prepared, furnished, or issued any audit report concerning the client for which 
     the documents are sought, and without prejudice to any arguments a Settling Respondent 
     may  have  with  respect  to  the  application  of  Section  106  in  a  Restart  of  the  Current 
     Proceeding  or  any  future  proceeding  based  on  Section  106  that  does  not  arise  under 
     paragraph 3 or paragraph 4 of Section III.J of this Order.  All references to “paragraphs” in 
     Section III.J of this Order are references to the numbered paragraphs 1 through 8 that appear 
     in Section III.J of this Order, unless expressly indicated otherwise. 

2.    The following Procedures will apply to future SEC requests for production of documents 
     covered by Section 106(b) of Sarbanes-Oxley from the Settling Respondents: 

     i.   The Division agrees that, on its own or through other SEC staff (such as the SEC’s 
          Office of International Affairs), it will in the first instance issue a request for assistance 
          to  the  CSRC  in  respect  of  such  documents  under  international  sharing  mechanisms 
          (including, to the extent available, the IOSCO MMOU). On or about the date on which 
          such a request for assistance is sent, the SEC or the Division will do one or both of the 
          following: 

              A.  Issue a new Section 106 request (mirroring the request made to the CSRC) to 
                  the relevant Settling Respondent through its designated U.S. agent.  Unless the 
                  Division has already provided notice that it is terminating the stay pursuant to 
                  paragraph  5  below,  the  new  Section  106  request  shall  expressly  state  that, 
                  pursuant  to  Section  106(f),  the  Division  agrees  to  accept  production  of 
                  documents in accordance with these Procedures; and/or 

              B.  Provide  the  relevant  Settling  Respondent  with  notice  of  the  request  for 
                  assistance that was sent to the CSRC, specifying the documents sought by the 
                  Division. 

                                               21 
 
---------------------Page 22---------------------

                                                  
          References in Section III.J of this Order to the CSRC mean the CSRC and/or such other 
          Chinese authority/ies as may be charged from time to time by the Chinese government 
          with   liaising   with   the   SEC   on   matters   of   cross-border   information-sharing   and 
          cooperation. 
           
          For  the  purpose  of  maximizing  efficiency  between  the  CSRC  and  the  SEC  in  the 
          handling of any request, to the extent practicable the Division will make reasonable 
          efforts (1) to discuss the content of the request with outside counsel for the relevant 
          Settling Respondent in the United States before the request is issued in connection with 
          the Division’s investigation; and (2) to consolidate follow-up inquiries with the CSRC in 
          a minimal number of communications after the Division receives a production, and to 
          set forth reasonable periods for responses to such inquiries.  However, nothing in this 
          sub-paragraph  affects  the  Settling  Respondents’  undertakings  under  paragraph  2(ii) 
          below, the potential remedies available in paragraphs 3 and 4 below, or the Division’s 
          ability to restart the Current Proceeding under paragraph 5 below. 
           
     ii.  The Settling Respondents undertake as follows: 

               A.  Within ninety (90) days of receipt of a request under paragraph 2(i)(A) or (B) 
                  above,  or  within  forty-five  (45)  days  from  the  date  the  relevant  Settling 
                  Respondent    receives    the  first  corresponding    request    from    the    CSRC 
                  (“corresponding    request”),  whichever    is    later,    the    relevant  Settling 
                  Respondent  will  provide  the  Division  with  an  initial  declaration  (“initial 
                  declaration”) which states that the relevant Settling Respondent has produced 
                  all responsive documents to the CSRC for production to the SEC, subject to the 
                  following: 

                        1.  If the Settling Respondent has determined to withhold documents (or 
                           portions of documents) under a claim of U.S. privilege, the declaration 
                           must  attest  that  the  Settling  Respondent   has   described  all   such 
                           information on a privilege log in accordance  with U.S. custom and 
                           practice (“privilege log”); 

                        2.  If  the  Settling  Respondent  has  determined  (subject  to  the  CSRC’s 
                           review) that documents (or portions of documents) should be withheld 
                           under  Chinese  law  governing  state  sensitive  information  or  state 
                           secrets,   or   for   any   other   reason   under   Chinese   law,   including 
                           applicable privilege(s) under Chinese law, the declaration must attest 
                           that the Settling Respondent has described all such information on a 
                           withholding log (“withholding log”).  The withholding log must (to 
                           the extent permissible under Chinese law) include the date on which 
                           the document was created; the document’s author(s); all recipients of 
                           the document; the document’s general subject matter; the reason for 
                           proposing the withholding; a description sufficient to identify where 
                           the   document   is   located   (or   would   have   been   located)   in   the 

                                                22 
 
---------------------Page 23---------------------

                                                  
                           production; and a unique identifying number (i.e., a bates number) for 
                           each page containing withheld information. 

                        3.  The  Division,  in  its  sole  discretion,  may  authorize  one  or  more 
                           extensions  of  the  90-day  deadline  (referenced  in  paragraph  2(ii)(A) 
                           above)  if the  relevant  Settling Respondent, in writing, requests and 
                           demonstrates good cause for such an extension before the expiration of 
                           such deadline. 

                        4.  If the relevant Settling Respondent determines not to provide the initial 
                           declaration within the 90-day deadline because the Settling Respondent 
                           is allowed additional time by virtue of the date on which it receives the 
                           first   corresponding   request   from   the   CSRC   in   accordance   with 
                           paragraph  2(ii)(A)  above,  the  Settling  Respondent  will  notify  the 
                           Division in writing of this determination before the 90-day deadline 
                           expires.      In   addition,   upon   such   notification   by   the  Settling 
                           Respondent, or within five days of the Settling Respondent’s receipt of 
                           the first corresponding request from the CSRC, whichever is later, the 
                           Settling Respondent will inform the Division in writing of the date on 
                           which it received the first corresponding request.    

               B.  The  Settling Respondents will inform the CSRC in writing when they have 
                  completed preparation for production to the CSRC of all responsive documents, 
                  privilege logs and withholding logs in response to corresponding requests.  The 
                  Settling  Respondents  will  use  all  reasonable  efforts  to  facilitate  the  SEC’s 
                  receipt  of  all  responsive  documents,  privilege  logs,  and  withholding  logs 
                  (finalized in accordance with the CSRC’s directions) in as expeditious a manner 
                  as possible.  

               C.  Within ten (10) days of the SEC notifying the relevant Settling Respondent that  
                  production  from  the  CSRC  to  the  SEC  has  occurred,  the  relevant  Settling 
                  Respondent will provide the Division directly with a certification that it has 
                  provided to the CSRC all documents responsive to the CSRC’s corresponding 
                  request except information set forth on a privilege log, and, where applicable, 
                  that it has proposed (subject to the CSRC’s review) that documents (or portions 
                  of  documents)  set  forth  on  the  withholding  log  should  be  withheld  under 
                  Chinese law governing state sensitive information or state secrets, or for any 
                  other  reason  under  Chinese  law  (“certification  of  completeness”).    The 
                  certification of completeness must append all corresponding requests received 
                  by the Settling Respondent from the CSRC, and certified English translations 
                  thereof, and describe the Settling Respondent’s search for the documents, and 
                  (to  the  extent  permissible  under  Chinese  law)  the  process  by  which  it  was 
                  determined that information included on the withholding log, if any, should be 
                  withheld. 

                                                23 
 
---------------------Page 24---------------------

                                                  
3.    Remedy in the form of an Automatic Bar.  If the relevant Settling Respondent does not 
      provide the initial declaration as  required by paragraph 2(ii)(A)  above  or  if the relevant 
      Settling  Respondent  does  not  provide  the  certification  of  completeness  as  required  by 
      paragraph 2(ii)(C) above, the Division shall notify the relevant Settling Respondent of the 
      failure and give the Settling Respondent twenty (20) days to cure the failure.  If, within 
      twenty (20) days of the request for cure by the Division, the relevant Settling Respondent 
      does  not  provide  the  initial  declaration  as  required  by  paragraph  2(ii)(A)  above  or  the 
      relevant Settling Respondent does not provide the certification of completeness as required 
      by paragraph 2(ii)(C) above, the Commission, in its sole discretion, and without regard to the 
      procedures set forth in Rule 5(c) of SEC’s Informal and Other Procedures, 17  C.F.R. § 
      202.5(c), may determine  that the relevant  Settling Respondent has not complied with its 
      obligations under this Order  and thereupon enter, without further notice, an order of the 
      Commission pursuant to Rule 102(e) in an agreed-upon form (attached as Annex B to this 
      Order), that partially denies the Settling Respondent the privilege of practicing or appearing 
      before the Commission, for a period of six (6) months, according to the terms set forth below 
                                      14
      (collectively the “Partial Bar”). 

     i.   A Partial Bar is defined as follows: 

             A.  The Settling Respondent is prohibited from issuing an audit report, or otherwise 
                 serving as a principal auditor, for any issuer (as defined in Section 2(a)(7) of 
                 Sarbanes-Oxley); and 

             B.  The Settling Respondent is prohibited from playing a 50% or greater role in the 
                 preparation or furnishing of an audit report for any issuer, meaning the Settling 
                 Respondent is prohibited from performing: 

                       1.  Audit work that a public accounting firm uses or relies on in issuing 
                           all or part of its audit report  with respect to any issuer, where the 
                           engagement hours or fees for such services constitute 50% or more of 
                           the  total  engagement  hours  or  fees,  respectively,  provided  by  the 
                           principal auditor in connection with the issuance of all or part of its 
                           audit report with respect to any issuer; and 

                       2.  The majority of audit work with respect to a subsidiary or component 
                           of any issuer, the assets or revenues of which constitute 50% or more 
                           of the consolidated assets or revenues of the issuer. 

     ii.   If two or more orders imposing a Partial Bar are issued under this paragraph 3 for a 
          particular  Settling  Respondent  (where  each  such  remedy  arises  from  a  separate 

                                                 
14
  If an order in the form of Annex B is entered under this paragraph 3 of Section III.J of this Order, the 
information contained in brackets (“[. . . .]”) in Annex B will be replaced by the relevant Settling 
Respondent’s name and the other pertinent details indicated within those brackets. 

                                                24 
 
---------------------Page 25---------------------

                                                 
          investigation), the Partial Bars shall be imposed so that each Partial Bar runs its full 
          six-month course in a non-concurrent fashion. 

     iii.  An Order imposing the remedy of a Partial Bar shall be final.  There shall be no 
          review by any federal court. 

4.    Remedy in the form of a Summary Proceeding.  If the relevant Settling Respondent provides 
     the   initial   declaration   under   paragraph   2(ii)(A)  above  and/or  the   certification   of 
     completeness under paragraph 2(ii)(C) above, but the Division believes that either or both of 
     the  documents  so  provided  is  inadequate  or  that  the  production  which  the  Settling 
     Respondent has made to the CSRC and in respect of which it has given a certificate of 
     completeness is not materially complete (as defined below),  the Division shall notify the 
     relevant Settling Respondent of the inadequacy or material non-completeness which it asserts 
     and give the Settling Respondent at least twenty (20) days to cure them or otherwise satisfy 
     the Division.  If after twenty (20) days the relevant Settling Respondent has not resolved the 
     matter to the Division’s satisfaction, the Commission, upon recommendation by the Division 
     and without regard to the procedures set forth in Rule 5(c) of SEC’s Informal and Other 
     Procedures, 17 C.F.R. § 202.5(c), may issue an order instituting a summary administrative 
     proceeding  (“Summary  Proceeding”).      If  the  Commission  decides  to  issue  an  OIP,  a 
     Summary Proceeding will commence as follows: 

     i.   The purpose of the Summary Proceeding is to determine  whether, in response to a 
          request  under  the  Procedures,  the  privilege  log,  withholding  log,  initial  declaration, 
          and/or certification of completeness is or are inadequate; whether U.S. privilege justifies 
          the withholding of any responsive information; and whether the production to the CSRC 
          is  otherwise  materially  complete.    These  are  the  sole  issues  to  be  determined  in  a 
          Summary Proceeding.  A finding that is adverse to the Settling Respondent on one or 
          more of these issues shall collectively constitute an “offense.” 

     ii.  The Summary Proceeding will be adjudicated by an assigned ALJ, who will issue a 
          decision  no  later  than  either  180  days  from  the  beginning  of  the  proceeding  or  an 
          extended date approved by the Commission.  The relevant Settling Respondent will be 
          afforded a reasonable opportunity to submit responses and briefs responding to any OIP 
          instituting a Summary Proceeding in accordance with the SEC Rules of Practice.  The 
          Rules of Practice will govern the Summary Proceeding, except to the extent inconsistent 
          with the terms of this Order. 

     iii.  A Summary Proceeding may impose, for a first offense, a Partial Bar for a period of up 
          to six (6) months.  If, in the same Summary Proceeding or other Summary Proceedings, 
          there is a finding of one or more additional offenses  (each  arising from  a different 
          investigation), the Summary Proceeding may impose a complete bar on appearing or 
          practicing  before  the  Commission  for  a  period  up  to  six  (6)  months  per  additional 
          offense.  Practice bars imposed for multiple offenses in a single Summary Proceeding 
          may run consecutively.  Additionally, whether or not a practice bar is imposed, the 

                                               25 
 
---------------------Page 26---------------------

                                                  
          Summary Proceeding may impose a censure on the relevant Settling Respondent and/or 
          a monetary penalty up to U.S. $750,000 per offense. 

     iv.  The Summary Proceeding decision shall be subject to Commission review in accordance 
          with the SEC Rules of Practice.  The Commission decision that resolves a petition for 
          review of the ALJ’s initial decision shall be final.  There shall be no review by any 
          federal court. 

     v.  A  “materially  complete”  production  is  one  concerning  which  a  reasonably  diligent 
          search has been conducted by the relevant Settling Respondent to identify responsive 
          documents and where all of the documents identified in such search have been collected 
          by the relevant Settling Respondent and provided to the CSRC, together with an index 
          as  required  by  the  CSRC,  in  accordance  with  Chinese  law  protocols.    A  Summary 
          Proceeding  shall  not  be  commenced  to  determine  whether  a  production  is  deficient 
          because of documents that are described on a Withholding Log and withheld under a 
          claim that they contain state secrets or state sensitive information.  However, neither the 
          definition  of  “materially  complete”  nor  any  limitation  on  the  subject  matter  of  a 
          Summary Proceeding, set forth herein, reflects a determination by the Division or the 
          Commission of the Settling Respondent’s full production obligation under Section 106 
          of Sarbanes-Oxley.  Additionally, the Division expressly reserves its rights to restart the 
          Current Proceeding under the circumstances described in paragraph 5 below, including, 
          but  not  limited  to,  where  the  Division  has  concerns  about  the  nature  or  scope  of 
          withholdings in response to a certain number of requests under the Procedures. 

5.    Restarting of the Current Proceeding.  If any Settling Respondent does not comply with its 
     undertaking to make the payment specified in Section III.H of this Order  or if the Division 
     in its sole discretion at any time decides that, with respect to two or more requests made 
     collectively to the Settling Respondents under the Procedures, (i) in the Division’s view, it 
     has  not  received  a  materially  complete  production  and/or  an  adequate  privilege  log, 
     withholding  log,  initial  declaration,  and/or  certification  of  completeness,  as  described  in 
     paragraph 2(ii) above, and the Division has not commenced a Summary Proceeding based on 
     the request; (ii) in the Division’s view a substantial number of documents (or portions of 
     documents) have been withheld from the production in violation of, or without justification 
     under, U.S. law, including, but not limited to, Section 106 of Sarbanes-Oxley; or (iii) in the 
     Division’s view its receipt of a production has been substantially delayed (or not received at 
     all) under the Procedures, the Division may recommend to the Commission that the stay 
     referred to in Section III.I of this Order be terminated, and, after receiving approval by the 
     Commission of its recommendation, provide notice to all of the Settling Respondents that the 
     stay has been terminated. 

     Before deciding that a request forms the basis (or part of the basis) for restarting the Current 
     Proceeding, the Division (on its own or through other SEC staff) will notify the CSRC of the 
     alleged inadequacy and/or make reasonable inquiry of the CSRC of the likely duration of any 
     delay or non-production.  A production will not be deemed “substantially delayed” within the 
     meaning of paragraph 5(iii) above if the production is received by the SEC within 225 days 

                                               26 
 
---------------------Page 27---------------------

                                                  
     of the date of the request made under paragraph 2(i) above (or within any period of time as 
     specifically agreed between the SEC and the CSRC for a particular request) and, in the 
     Division’s view, the production is materially complete and accompanied by an adequate 
     privilege log, withholding log, and certification of completeness as described in paragraph 
     2(ii) above.  If a production is received by the Division more than 225 days after the date of 
     the request under paragraph 2(i) above, the Division, in its sole discretion, will determine 
     whether the production is “substantially delayed” within the meaning of paragraph 5(iii) 
     above.  In making this determination, the Division will not automatically conclude that a 
     production is “substantially delayed” because it is received more than 225 days after the date 
     of the request, but will consider the particular circumstances of the case, including the SEC 
     staff’s communications with the CSRC regarding the timing of production. 
      
     To the extent noncompliance with Section III.H of this Order  or the matters under (i), (ii) 
     and/or (iii) above in this paragraph 5 relate to fewer than all of the Settling Respondents, the 
     Division, in its discretion, may request of the Settling Respondents that the stay be lifted only 
     as to the relevant Settling Respondent(s) and, if all four of the Settling Respondents agree to 
     lift the stay only as to the relevant Settling Respondent(s), the stay will be lifted only as to the 
     relevant  Settling  Respondent(s).    If  not,  the  stay  will  be  lifted  as  to  all  of  the  Settling 
     Respondents.  The Current Proceeding will then resume as to all or some of the Settling 
     Respondents, and those parties’ rights will be determined by the Commission or the Federal 
     Courts (should the identified Settling Respondents appeal).  The Division’s “notice” under 
     this  agreement  may  be  by  any  method  reasonably  calculated  to  provide  such  notice, 
     including, but not limited to, by delivering (under any method set forth in Rule 150(c) of the 
     SEC’s Rules of Practice) a copy of such notice to the Settling Respondents’ outside counsel 
     in the United States or to the respective domestic registered public accounting firms or other 
     United States agents that the Settling Respondents have designated for service under Section 
     106(d) of Sarbanes-Oxley, 15 U.S.C. § 7216(d). Except with respect to paragraph 5(i) above, 
     the Division’s prerogatives under this paragraph are entirely separate from any remedy it may 
     seek under paragraph 4 above. 
        
6.    In the event the Commission approves the Division’s recommendation to lift the stay in the 
     Current Proceeding, the following terms will apply: 

     i.   The Division may serve new Section 106 requests on the Settling Respondents, via their 
          designated  agents,  without  reference  to  the  Procedures  as  required  under  paragraph 
          2(i)(A) above. This means that the SEC may exercise its full statutory rights under 
          Section 106. 

     ii.  With respect to requests under paragraph 2(i) above that predate the lifting of the stay 
          and do not form the basis for restarting the Current Proceeding under paragraph 5(i) 
          above, the Division may initiate or continue to prosecute a Summary Proceeding under 
          paragraph 4 above. 

     iii.  The Division may not seek to sanction non-compliance by a Settling Respondent with 
          any Section 106 request made after the lifting of the stay (“new Section 106 request”), 

                                               27 
 
---------------------Page 28---------------------

                                                 
          including through an administrative proceeding under Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s 
          Rules of Practice, until there is a Final Commission Order in the Current Proceeding.  A 
          “Final Commission Order” means a final order issued by the Commission with respect 
          to the pending petitions for review in the Current Proceeding, without regard to whether 
          any Settling Respondent (or any other party or non-party) seeks federal court review of 
          the order or a stay in connection with such review. 

     iv.  The SEC or Division may not seek to enforce any Section 106 request against a Settling 
          Respondent in federal district court under Section 106(b)(l)(B) of Sarbanes-Oxley until 
          there is a Final Commission Order. 

     v.  Nothing in paragraph 5 above or this paragraph 6 precludes the parties, in the Current 
          Proceeding, in accordance with the Commission’s Rules of Practice, from seeking leave 
          to adduce additional evidence that relates to any request made by the Division under the 
          Procedures or Section 106. 

7.    The provisions of paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 above will be in effect for four (4)  years 
     following the date of this Order.  The day after this four-year period, these same provisions 
     will expire, except that (i) any remedies ordered under these provisions shall run their full 
     course; and (ii) any Summary Proceeding already instituted under paragraph 4 above and the 
     Current  Proceeding,  if  already  restarted  by  the  Division  under  paragraph  5  above,  shall 
     continue until final resolution.  Upon expiration of the four-year period, unless the Division 
     has restarted the Current Proceeding, all claims against any of the Settling Respondents in 
     the Current Proceeding will be deemed to be dismissed, except such dismissal will not affect 
     any admissions, findings, or remedies ordered in this Order, which are, and will be, deemed 
     final upon the dismissal of the Current Proceeding. 

8.    For purposes of the Commission’s consideration of any Division recommendation under 
     paragraph 4 or 5 above, or in connection with a remedy or potential remedy under paragraph 
     3 above, each of the Settling Respondents waives:  (i) such provisions of the Commission’s 
     Rules of Practice or other requirements of law as may be construed to prevent any member 
     of  the  Commission’s  staff  from  participating  in  the  preparation  of,  or  advising  the 
     Commission as to, any order, opinion, finding of fact, or conclusion of law to be entered in 
     connection with the Division’s recommendation, any resulting Summary Proceeding, or the 
     Current Proceeding; and (ii) any right to claim bias or prejudgment by the Commission, in 
     any such order, opinion, finding of fact, or conclusion of law entered in connection with the 
     Division’s recommendation, in any Summary Proceeding, or in the Current Proceeding. 

                              

                                               28 
 
---------------------Page 29---------------------

                                                   
                                                IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in the Settling Respondents’ Offers. 

                                              15
       Accordingly, pursuant to Rules 100(c)     and 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
it is hereby ORDERED that: 

       A.      DTTC, EYHM, KPMG Huazhen, and PwC Shanghai each is censured for its 
               willful violations of the securities laws. 

       B.      The Current Proceeding is hereby stayed in accordance with Section III.I of this 
               Order. 

       C.      DTTC, EYHM, KPMG Huazhen, and PwC Shanghai each shall comply with the 
               Procedures and Undertakings as to Future Requests, and Possible Additional 
               Proceedings and Remedies, set forth above in Section III.J of this Order. 

       D.      The Commission may institute additional proceedings and/or impose additional 
               remedies, as appropriate, in accordance with Section III.J of this Order. 

 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
                                                      Brent Fields 
                                                      Secretary 
                                                   
                                

                                                 
15
  Rule 100(c) of the Rules of Practice states:  “The Commission, upon its determination that to do so 
would serve the interests of justice and not result in prejudice to the parties to the proceeding, may by 
order direct, in a particular proceeding, that an alternative procedure shall apply or that compliance with 
an otherwise applicable rule is unnecessary.” 

                                                 29 
 
---------------------Page 30---------------------

                          UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                     Before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File Nos. 3-14872, 3-15116 
 
                                                ANNEX A TO  ORDER  ON THE 
                                                BASIS OF OFFER S OF 
                                                SETTLEMENT OF CERTAIN 
In the Matter of                                RESPONDENTS  IMPLEMENTING 
                                                SETTLEMENT  
      BDO China Dahua CPA Co., Ltd. ; 
      Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Certified   
         Public Accountants Ltd.;  
      Ernst & Young Hua Ming  LLP;  
      KPMG Huazhen (Special General      
         Partner ship); 
      PricewaterhouseCoopers Zhong Tian    
         CPAs Limited   
 
Respondents.  
 
 
 
 
                                              
                                          
                                     ANNEX A  
 
      Respondents Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Certified Public Accountants Ltd. (“DTTC”), 
Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP (“EYHM”), KPMG Huazhen (Special General Partnership) 
(“KPMG Huazhen”), and PricewaterhouseCoopers Zhong Tian CPAs Limited Company (“PwC 
Shanghai”)  (collectively the “Settling Respondents”) admit the facts set forth below (the 
“Admissions”): 
 
 
 
 

                                          
 
---------------------Page 31---------------------

                                                
 
                                      RESPONDENTS 

       1.     DTTC  (or   “Deloitte”)  is   a   special   general   partnership   providing   audit   and 
professional services in the PRC.  DTTC is located in Shanghai, China, and is a member firm of 
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (“DTT Global”), a UK private company limited by guarantee.  
DTTC is a foreign public accounting firm as defined by Section 106 of Sarbanes-Oxley. 

       2.     EYHM  (or   “Ernst”)  is   a   special   general   partnership   providing   audit   and 
professional services in the PRC.  EYHM is headquartered in Beijing, China, and is a member firm 
of Ernst & Young Global Limited (“EY Global”), a UK private company limited by guarantee.  
EYHM is a foreign public accounting firm as defined by Section 106 of Sarbanes-Oxley. 

       3.     KPMG Huazhen (or “KPMG”) is a special general partnership providing audit and 
professional services in the PRC.  KPMG Huazhen is located in Beijing, China, and is a member 
firm  of  KPMG  International  Cooperative  (“KPMG  International”),  a  Swiss  entity.    KPMG 
Huazhen is a foreign public accounting firm as defined by Section 106 of Sarbanes-Oxley. 

       4.     PwC Shanghai (or “Pricewaterhouse”) is a special general partnership providing 
audit and professional services in the PRC.  PwC Shanghai is headquartered in Shanghai, China, 
and is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (“PwCIL”), a UK private 
company limited by guarantee.  PwC Shanghai is a foreign public accounting firm as defined by 
Section 106 of Sarbanes-Oxley. 

                              OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES 

       5.     DTTC Client A (“DTTC Client A”) is a public company the securities of which are 
registered with the SEC under Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 
Act”) and listed on NASDAQ.  DTTC Client A is incorporated in the Province of Ontario, Canada 
and has its principal operations and principal place of business in the PRC.   DTTC Client A 
designs and manufactures solar products. 

       6.     EYHM  Client  B  (“Client  B”)  is  a  Delaware  corporation  with  its  principal 
operations and principal  place of business in the PRC.  Client B’s securities were previously 
registered with the SEC under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and listed on NASDAQ.  Client 
B purports to be a leading developer, manufacturer and distributor of organic compound fertilizers 
in China. 

       7.     EYHM Client C  (“Client C”) is a Cayman Islands corporation with its primary 
operations in Beijing, PRC.  Client C’s securities were previously registered with the SEC pursuant 
to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act  and listed on NASDAQ.   Client C purports to  provide 
enhanced recovery services for oil and gas exploration. 

       8.     KPMG Huazhen Client D (“Client D”) is a Delaware corporation with its primary 
operations in Xi’an, PRC. Client D’s securities were previously registered with the SEC pursuant 

                                              2 
 
---------------------Page 32---------------------

                                                
to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and listed on NASDAQ.  Client D purports to engage in the 
wholesale distribution of finished oil and heavy oil products, the production and sale of biodiesel, 
and the operation of retail gas stations.   

       9.     KPMG Huazhen Client E (“Client E”) is a Nevada corporation with its primary 
operations in Ningbo, PRC.  Client E’s securities are registered with the SEC pursuant to Section 
12(g)  of  the  Exchange  Act  and  were  previously  listed  on  NASDAQ.    Client  E  purports  to 
manufacture and supply various petrochemical products in China. 

       10.    KPMG Huazhen Client F (“Client F”) is a Nevada corporation, with its primary 
operations  in  Shanghai,  PRC.    Client  F’s  securities  were  previously  registered  with  the  SEC 
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and listed on NASDAQ.  Client F purports to 
manufacture chemical additives used in the production of consumer and industrial products. 

       11.    DTTC Client G (“Client G”) is a Wyoming corporation with its primary operations 
in Beijing, PRC.  Client G’s securities were previously registered with the SEC pursuant to Section 
12(g) of the Exchange Act and listed on NYSE.  Client G purports to design, manufacture, and sell 
offset printing equipment. 

       12.    PwC Shanghai Client  H  (“Client H”) is  a  Cayman  Islands corporation  with  its 
principal operations in the PRC.  Client H’s securities are registered with the SEC under Section 
12(g) of the Exchange Act and were previously listed on NASDAQ.  Client H purports to own and 
operate a commercial vehicle financing and service centers network. 

       13.    PwC  Shanghai  Client  I  (“Client  I”)  is  a  Nevada  corporation  with  its  primary 
operations in Beijing, PRC.  Client I’s securities were previously registered with the SEC under 
Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and listed on NASDAQ.  Client I purports to manufacture 
automotive electrical parts in China. 

       FACTS CONCERNING COMMMISSION REQUESTS TO THE SETTLING 
                      RESPONDENTS UNDER SARBANES-OXLEY 

          1.  Regulatory Background 

       14.    Section 106 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley” or the “Act”), 
before it was amended by  the  Dodd-Frank  Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 
(“Dodd-Frank”) in 2010, stated, in relevant part, that “If a foreign public accounting firm issues an 
opinion or otherwise performs material services upon which a registered public accounting firm 
relies in issuing all or part of any audit report or any opinion contained in an audit report, that 
foreign  public  accounting  firm  shall  be  deemed  to  have  consented  .  .  .  to  produce  its  audit 
workpapers for the Board or the Commission in connection with any investigation by either body 
with respect to that audit report . . . .”  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Public Company Accounting 
Reform and Investor Protection Act), Pub. L. No. 107-204 § 106(b). 

                                              3 
 
---------------------Page 33---------------------

                                                   
       15.    In 2004, the Board posted Frequently Asked Questions to its website which stated, 
in part:  “A registered firm’s failure to cooperate with Board requests [for production of documents 
under  Sarbanes-Oxley  Section  106]  may  subject  the  firm  to  disciplinary  sanctions,  including 
substantial civil money penalties and revocation of the firm’s registration. In the staff’s view, if a 
firm fails to cooperate with the Board, the fact that the firm has not obtained a client consent that 
might be necessary (under non-U.S. law) to allow the firm to cooperate is not a defense to a 
disciplinary action for failure to cooperate.” 

       16.    Section 106(b)(1) of Sarbanes-Oxley, as amended by Dodd-Frank, states that: “[i]f 
a  foreign  public  accounting  firm  performs  material  services  upon  which  a  registered  public 
accounting firm relies in the conduct of an audit or interim review, issues an audit report, performs 
audit work, or conducts interim reviews, the foreign public accounting firm shall . . . produce the 
audit workpapers of the foreign public accounting firm and all other documents of the firm related 
to any such audit work or interim review to the Commission or the Board, upon request of the 
Commission or the Board . . . .” 

           2.  Requests To DTTC 

                                                       1
       17.    On  or  around  April  16,  2004,  DTTC     applied  for  registration  with  the  Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board (the       “PCAOB” or “Board”) as required by the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act (“Sarbanes-Oxley”), 15 U.S.C. § 7212.  The Board confirmed DTTC’s registration as a 
foreign public accounting firm in a letter dated June 4, 2004.  DTTC has remained registered with 
the Board since that time. 

       18.    DTTC knew when it registered with the PCAOB that the PCAOB or the SEC could 
request documents under Section 106, as originally enacted as part of Sarbanes-Oxley. 

       19.    DTTC knew when it registered with the PCAOB that there were possible conflicts 
between its obligations under U.S. and Chinese law.  DTTC described possible conflicts of law in 
its April 16, 2004 PCAOB registration filing that included a legal opinion. 

       20.    The  Board’s  June  4,  2004  letter  confirming  DTTC’s  registration  stated  that, 
although  DTTC  had  not  provided  with  its  application  a  “Consent  to  Cooperate”  with  Board 
inspections and requests for documents, “the Board’s approval of Deloitte’s registration . . . does 
not relieve Deloitte of the obligation to cooperate in and comply with Board demands (including 
for  documents  or  testimony)  and  to  enforce  such  cooperation  and  compliance  by  Deloitte 
associated  persons.    If  Deloitte  prepares  or  issues,  or  plays  a  substantial  role  in  preparing  or 
issuing, an audit report with respect to any issuer . . . U.S. law and the Board’s rules impose 
cooperation and compliance requirements that apply to Deloitte despite the absence of a consent.” 

                                                 
1
 On January 1, 2013, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Certified Public Accountants LLP filed with the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board a notification on Form 4 that Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Certified 
Public Accountants LLP had succeeded to the registration status of its predecessor, Deloitte Touche 
Tohmatsu CPA Ltd. 

                                                 4 
 
---------------------Page 34---------------------

                                                
       21.    In June 2011, pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley Section 106(d), as amended by Dodd-
Frank, DTTC designated Deloitte & Touche LLP (“DTT US”), the United States member firm of 
DTT Global, as its agent for receiving service of document requests under Section 106.  In so 
doing, DTTC confirmed its understanding that the PCAOB or the SEC could request documents 
under Section 106. 

       22.    DTTC knew at all relevant times that it was possible that it could not, consistent 
with Chinese law, produce documents directly to the SEC in response to requests for documents 
under Sarbanes-Oxley Section 106.  DTTC also knew, no later than upon the enactment of Dodd-
Frank, in 2010, and at all times subsequent, that the Commission retained power to deny DTTC the 
privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission to the extent DTTC willfully refused to 
comply with requests for documents under Sarbanes-Oxley Section 106. 

       23.    In the PCAOB reporting years 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013, DTTC issued audit 
reports  for  thirty-two  (32),  forty-five  (45),  forty-five  (45),  and  thirty-nine  (39)  U.S.  issuers, 
respectively. 

       24.    DTTC audited DTTC Client A’s financial statements for the fiscal years ended 
December 31, 2008, 2009, and 2010.  DTTC Client A remained DTTC’s client as of April 2013. 

       25.    Before  April  9,  2010,  the  Division  commenced  an  investigation  into  potential 
accounting  fraud  involving  DTTC  Client  A,  which  Client  A  disclosed  in  a  Form  6-K  and 
accompanying press release filed with the Commission on June 1, 2010.  In the press release, 
DTTC Client A announced that it was postponing the release of its full financial results for the 
quarter ended March 31, 2010 and its quarterly conference call, scheduled for June 2, as a result of 
the commencement of an investigation by the Audit Committee of DTTC Client A’s Board of 
Directors.  DTTC Client A disclosed that “the investigation was launched after the Company 
received a subpoena from the [Commission] requesting documents from [DTTC Client A] relating 
to, among other things, certain sales transactions in 2009.” 

       26.    On March 11, 2011, the Division properly served on DTTC a Commission request 
under Section 106 for the production of “[a]ll audit work papers and all other documents related to 
any audit work or interim reviews performed for [DTTC  Client A] for the fiscal year ending 
December 31, 2009” (the “Client A Request”). 

       27.    By letter dated April 29, 2011, DTTC, through its U.S. counsel, responded to the 
Client A Request.  DTTC stated in the letter that the laws and regulations of the PRC prohibited 
the  firm  from  providing  the  SEC  directly  with  the  requested  audit  workpapers  and  related 
documents.  DTTC did not include any of the requested audit workpapers or related documents 
with its response. 

       28.    In July 2011, the Division issued to DTTC a Wells notice that the Division intended 
to recommend institution of proceedings against DTTC because, in the Division’s view, DTTC had 
willfully refused to comply with the Client A Request. 

                                              5 
 
---------------------Page 35---------------------

                                                 
       29.    DTTC was engaged to audit the financial statements of Client G for the fiscal year 
ended June 30, 2010.  In the course of this engagement, DTTC performed audit work on behalf of 
Client G related to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010.  DTTC did not issue any audit report with 
respect to Client G. 

       30.    In 2010, Division staff opened an investigation involving Client G, which related to 
matters reported in a Form 8-K filed by Client G on September 13, 2010.   Specifically, Client G 
reported that: 

              a.  Client G had terminated DTTC’s engagement as independent auditor effective 
                  September 6, 2010; 

              b.  During the course of DTTC’s audit of Client G for the fiscal year ended June 
                  30, 2010, Client G had denied DTTC’s request for permission to access original 
                  bank statements to verify the identity of certain individuals and entities; 

              c.  Several “reportable events,” as defined in Item 304(a)(1)(v) of Regulation S-K, 
                  occurred during DTTC’s audit of Client G; and  

              d.  Between  September  6  and  September  8,  2010,  Client  G’s  CEO,  CFO,  and 
                  several directors, including the Chair of its Audit Committee, all resigned their 
                  positions. 

       31.    On  February  14,  2012,  the  Division  properly  served  on  DTTC  a  Commission 
request under Section 106 for the production of “[a]ll audit work papers and all other documents 
related to any audit work or interim reviews performed for [Client G] for the fiscal year ended June 
30, 2010” (the “Client G Request”). 

       32.    By letter dated April 17, 2012, DTTC, through its U.S. counsel, responded to the 
Client G Request.  DTTC stated in the letter that the laws and regulations of the PRC prohibited 
the  firm  from  providing  the  SEC  directly  with  the  requested  audit  workpapers  and  related 
documents.  DTTC did not include any of the requested audit workpapers or related documents 
with its response. 

       33.    In  April  2012,  the  Division  issued  to  DTTC  a  Wells  notice  that  the  Division 
intended to recommend institution of proceedings against DTTC because, in the Division’s view, 
DTTC had willfully refused to comply with the Client G Request. 

       34.    On  May  9,  2012  and  December  3,  2012,  the  Commission  instituted  these 
proceedings against DTTC under Rule 102(e) based on DTTC’s conduct with respect to the Client 
A Request and the Client G Request, respectively.  DTTC did not produce audit workpapers and 
related documents responsive to either request to the Commission before the December 3, 2012 
OIP. 

                                               6 
 
---------------------Page 36---------------------

                                                 
       35.    In  2013,  DTTC  provided  documents  related  to  DTTC  Client  A  to  the  China 
Securities Regulatory Commission (“CSRC”), in response to a request that DTTC had received 
from the CSRC.  In November 2013, DTTC audit workpapers concerning DTTC Client A were 
provided by the CSRC to the SEC. 

       36.    In 2013, DTTC provided documents related to Client G to the CSRC, in response to 
a request that DTTC had received from the CSRC.  In October 2013, DTTC audit workpapers and 
related documents concerning Client G were provided by the CSRC to the SEC. 

           3.  Requests To EYHM 

                                                   2
       37.    On or around May 25, 2004, EYHM         applied for registration with the PCAOB  as 
required by Sarbanes- Oxley, 15 U.S.C. § 7212.  The PCAOB     confirmed EYHM  ’s registration as a 
foreign public accounting firm in a letter dated July 8, 2004.  EYHM has remained registered with 
the PCAOB since that time. 

       38.    EYHM knew when it registered with the PCAOB that the PCAOB or the SEC 
could request documents under Section 106, as originally enacted as part of Sarbanes-Oxley. 

       39.    EYHM knew when it registered with the PCAOB that there were possible conflicts 
between its obligations under U.S. and Chinese law.  EYHM described possible conflicts of law in 
its May 25, 2004 PCAOB registration filing that included a legal opinion. 

       40.    The  Board’s  July  8,  2004  letter  confirming  EYHM’s  registration  stated  that, 
although  EYHM  had  not  provided  with  its  application  a  “Consent  to  Cooperate”  with  Board 
inspections and requests for documents, “the Board’s approval of Ernst’s registration . . . does not 
relieve Ernst of the obligation to cooperate in and comply with Board demands (including for 
documents or testimony) and to enforce such cooperation and compliance by Ernst’s associated 
persons.  If Ernst prepares or issues, or plays a substantial role in preparing or issuing, an audit 
report with respect to any issuer . . . U.S. law and the Board’s rules impose cooperation and 
compliance requirements that apply to Ernst despite the absence of a consent.” 

       41.    In March 2011, pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley Section 106(d), as amended by Dodd-
Frank, EYHM designated Ernst & Young LLP (“EY US”), the United States member firm of EY 
Global, as its agent for receiving service of document requests under Section 106.  In so doing, 
EYHM confirmed its understanding that the PCAOB or the SEC could request documents under 
Section 106. 

       42.    EYHM knew at all relevant times that it was possible that it could not, consistent 
with Chinese law, produce documents directly to the SEC in response to requests for documents 
under Sarbanes-Oxley Section 106.  EYHM also knew, no later than upon the enactment of Dodd-

                                                 
2
   On September 3, 2012, Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP filed with the Public Company Accounting 
Oversight Board a notification on Form 4 that Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP had succeeded to the 
registration status of its predecessor, Ernst & Young Hua Ming Certified Public Accountants. 

                                               7 
 
---------------------Page 37---------------------

                                                 
Frank, in 2010, and at all times subsequent, that that the Commission retained the power to deny 
EYHM  the  privilege  of  appearing  or  practicing  before  the  Commission  to  the  extent  EYHM 
willfully refused to comply with requests for documents under Sarbanes-Oxley Section 106. 

       43.    In the PCAOB reporting years 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013, EYHM issued audit 
reports  for  eleven  (11),  twenty-four  (24),  twenty-one  (21),  and  twenty  (20)  U.S.  issuers, 
respectively. 

       44.    EYHM was engaged to audit the financial statements of Client B for the fiscal year 
ended December 31, 2010.   In the course of this engagement, EYHM performed audit work on 
behalf of Client B related to the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010.  EYHM did not issue an 
audit report on Client B’s financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. 

       45.    In  March  2011,  the  Division  opened  an  investigation  into  Client  B.    The 
investigation related to, among other things, public allegations of potential accounting fraud and 
misleading disclosures by Client B, including overstated revenues, falsified assets and customer 
relationships, and failure to disclose certain related party transactions.   

       46.    On April 26, 2012, the Division properly served on EYHM a Commission request 
under Section 106 for the production of “[a]ll audit work papers and all other documents related to 
any audit work or interim reviews performed for [Client B] for the fiscal year ending December 31, 
2010” (the “Client B Request”). 

       47.    By letter dated May 25, 2012, EYHM, through its U.S. counsel, responded to the 
Client B Request.  EYHM stated in the letter that the laws and regulations of the PRC prohibited 
the  firm  from  providing  the  SEC  directly  with  the  requested  audit  workpapers  and  related 
documents.  EYHM did not include any of the requested audit workpapers or related documents 
with its response. 

       48.    In  June  2012,  the  Division  issued  to  EYHM  a  Wells  notice  that  the  Division 
intended to recommend institution of proceedings against EYHM because, in the Division’s view, 
EYHM had willfully refused to comply with the Client B Request. 

       49.    EYHM audited Client C’s financial statements for the fiscal year ended September 
30, 2010. 

       50.    By  September  2011,  Division  staff  opened  an  investigation  involving  potential 
financial and accounting fraud at Client C.  The investigation stemmed from a short seller report 
regarding Client C, and from a letter that EYHM submitted to the Commission, pursuant to Section 
10A of the Exchange Act, upon its resignation as Client C’s auditor in September 2011.  The two 
primary subjects of the investigation were possible accounting fraud related to asset valuation, and 
embezzlement by Client C’s chairman. 

       51.    On  February  2,  2012,  the  Division  properly  served  on  EYHM  a  Commission 
request under Section 106 for the production of “[a]ll audit work papers and all other documents 

                                               8 
 
---------------------Page 38---------------------

                                                 
related to any audit work or interim reviews performed for [Client C] for the fiscal year ending 
September 30 , 2010 and subsequent periods” (the “Client C Request”). 

       52.    By letter dated April 4, 2012, EYHM, through its U.S. counsel, responded to the 
Client C Request.  EYHM stated in the letter that the laws and regulations of the PRC prohibited 
the  firm  from  providing  the  SEC  directly  with  the  requested  audit  workpapers  and  related 
documents.  EYHM did not include any of the requested audit workpapers or related documents 
with its response. 

       53.    In  April  2012,  the  Division  issued  to  EYHM  a  Wells  notice  that  the  Division 
intended to recommend institution of proceedings against EYHM because, in the Division’s view, 
EYHM had willfully refused to comply with the Client C Request. 

       54.    On December 3, 2012, the Commission instituted these proceedings against EYHM 
under Rule 102(e) based on EYHM’s conduct with respect to the Client B Request and the Client 
C Request.  EYHM did not produce any documents responsive to either request to the Commission 
before the December 3, 2012 OIP. 

       55.    In November 2013, EYHM audit workpapers and related documents concerning 
Client  C  were  received  by  the  Commission  from  the  CSRC.    In  March  2014,  EYHM  audit 
workpapers and related documents concerning Client B were provided to the Commission by the 
CSRC. 

           4.  Requests To KPMG Huazhen 

                                                               3
       56.    On or around April 26, 2004, KPMG Huazhen          applied for registration with the 
PCAOB     as  required  by  Sarbanes- Oxley,  15  U.S.C.  §  7212.    The  Board  confirmed KPMG 
Huazhen ’s registration as a foreign public accounting firm in a letter dated July 13, 2004.  KPMG 
Huazhen has remained registered with the Board since that time. 

       57.    KPMG Huazhen knew when it registered with the PCAOB that the PCAOB or the 
SEC could request documents under Section 106, as originally enacted as part of Sarbanes-Oxley. 

       58.    KPMG Huazhen knew when it registered with the PCAOB that there were possible 
conflicts between its obligations under U.S. and Chinese law.  KPMG Huazhen described possible 
conflicts of law in its April 26, 2004 PCAOB registration filing that included a legal opinion. 

       59.    The Board’s July 13, 2004 letter confirming KPMG Huazhen’s registration stated 
that, although KPMG Huazhen had not provided with its application a “Consent to Cooperate” 
with Board inspections and requests for documents, “the Board’s approval of KPMG’s registration 
. . . does not relieve KPMG of the obligation to cooperate in and comply with Board demands 

                                                 
3
   On August 14, 2012, KPMG Huazhen (Special General Partnership) filed with the Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board a notification on Form 4 that KPMG Huazhen (Special General Partnership) 
had succeeded to the registration status of its predecessor, KPMG Huazhen. 

                                                9 
 
---------------------Page 39---------------------

                                                  
(including  for  documents  or  testimony)  and  to  enforce  such  cooperation  and  compliance  by 
KPMG’s associated persons.  If KPMG prepares or issues, or plays a substantial role in preparing 
or issuing, an audit report with respect to any issuer . . . U.S. law and the Board’s rules impose 
cooperation and compliance requirements that apply to KPMG despite the absence of a consent.” 

       60.    In March 2011, pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley Section 106(d), as amended by Dodd-
Frank, KPMG Huazhen designated KPMG LLP (“KPMG US”), the United States member firm of 
KPMG International, as its agent for receiving service of document requests under Section 106.  In 
so doing, KPMG Huazhen confirmed its understanding that the PCAOB or the SEC could request 
documents under Section 106. 

       61.    KPMG  Huazhen  knew  at  all  relevant  times  it  was  possible  that  it  could  not, 
consistent with Chinese law, produce documents directly to the SEC in response to requests for 
documents under Sarbanes-Oxley Section 106.  KPMG Huazhen also knew, no later than upon the 
enactment of Dodd-Frank, in 2010, and at all times subsequent, that the Commission retained the 
power to deny KPMG Huazhen the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission to 
the  extent  KPMG  Huazhen  willfully  refused  to  comply  with  requests  for  documents  under 
Sarbanes-Oxley Section 106. 

       62.    In  the  PCAOB  reporting  years  2010,  2011,  2012,  and  2013,  KPMG  Huazhen 
played a substantial role in the preparation or furnishing of audit reports filed with the SEC (as 
                                      4
defined by PCAOB Rule 1001(p)(ii))      for twenty- four  (24) , twenty- three   (23) , twenty- five  (25) , 
and twenty- one  (21) U.S. issuers, respectively.    

       63.    KPMG Huazhen was engaged as a component auditor for Client D for the fiscal 
year ended December 31, 2010.  In the course of this engagement,  KPMG Huazhen played a 
substantial role with respect to the audit of Client D related to the fiscal year ended December 31, 
2010. 

       64.    By April 2011, the Division opened an investigation into potential accounting fraud 
at Client D.  The investigation concerned allegations made in two short seller reports issued in 
March 2011, which  claimed that Client D’s financial statements reported false  cash balances, 
overstated revenues, and failed to disclose a material related party transaction. 

                                                                                                 
       65.    On  February   6,  2012,  the  Division  properly  served  on  KPMG   Huazhen a 
Commission request under Section 106 for the production of “[a]ll audit work papers and all other 
documents related to any audit work or interim reviews performed for [Client D] for the fiscal year 
ending December 31, 2010” (the “Client D Request”). 

                                                 
4
 PCAOB Rule 1001(p)(ii) defines “Play a Substantial Role in the Preparation or Furnishing of an Audit 
Report” to mean:  “(1) to perform material services  that a public accounting firm uses or relies on in 
issuing all or part of its audit report with respect to any issuer, or (2) to perform the majority of the audit 
procedures with respect to a subsidiary or component of any issuer the assets or revenues of which 
constitute 20% or more of the consolidated assets or revenues of such issuer necessary for the principal 
accountant to issue an audit report on the issuer.” 

                                                10 
 
---------------------Page 40---------------------

                                                 
       66.    KPMG Huazhen was engaged as a component auditor for Client E for the fiscal 
year ended December 31, 2010.  In the course of this engagement,  KPMG Huazhen played a 
substantial role with respect to the audit of Client E related to the fiscal year ended December 31, 
2010, but did not complete the engagement. 

       67.    By April 2011, Division staff opened an investigation into potential financial and 
accounting fraud at Client E.  The investigation concerned issues raised in a Form 8-K that Client 
E filed in April 2011, which stated that Client E would be unable to file its Form 10-K on time 
because  Client  E’s  principal  auditor  had  identified  “unexplained  issues  regarding  certain  cash 
transactions and recorded sales.” 

                                                                                               
       68.    On  February   9,  2012,  the  Division  properly  served  on  KPMG   Huazhen a 
Commission request under Section 106 for the production of “[a]ll audit work papers and all other 
documents related to any audit work or interim reviews performed for [Client E] for the fiscal year 
ending December 31, 2010” (the “Client E Request”). 

       69.    KPMG Huazhen was engaged as a component auditor for Client F for the fiscal 
years ended December 31, 2008, and December 31, 2009.  In the course of this engagement, 
KPMG Huazhen played a substantial role with respect to the audit reports Client F filed with the 
Commission related to the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009. 

       70.    Before February 2012, Division staff opened an investigation involving potential 
financial and accounting fraud at Client F.  The investigation related to issues raised in a pair of 
disclosures made by Client F in early 2011: 

              a.  In   March  2011,   Client   F   disclosed   that   it   was   conducting   an   internal 
                  investigation into “potentially serious discrepancies” in its financial statements 
                  for the year ended December 31, 2010, and 

              b.  In May 2011, Client F disclosed that its principal auditor had resigned after 
                  identifying  what  they  considered  “potentially  serious  discrepancies  and/or 
                  unexplained issues relating to [Client F]’s financial records,” in response to 
                  which Client F failed to take adequate remedial action. 

                                                                                               
       71.    On  February   3,  2012,  the  Division  properly  served  on  KPMG   Huazhen a 
Commission request under Section 106 for the production of “[a]ll audit work papers and all other 
documents related to any audit reports issued, audit work performed, or interim reviews conducted 
for [Client F] from January 1, 2008 to the present” (the “Client F Request”). 

       72.    By  letter  dated  March  27,  2012,  KPMG  Huazhen,  through  its  U.S.  counsel, 
responded to the  Client D Request, the Client E Request, and the Client F Request.   KPMG 
         
Huazhen stated in the letter that the laws and regulations of the PRC prohibited the firm from 
providing the SEC directly with any of the requested audit workpapers and related documents.  
                 
KPMG Huazhen did not include any of the requested audit workpapers or related documents with 
its March 27 response. 

                                               11 
 
---------------------Page 41---------------------

                                                  
                                                                         
       73.    In  May  2012,  the  Division  issued  to  KPMG  Huazhen a  Wells  notice  that  the 
                                                                                    
Division intended to recommend institution of proceedings against KPMG Huazhenbecause, in the 
                                   
Division’s view, KPMG Huazhen had willfully refused to comply with the Client D Request, the 
Client E Request, and the Client F Request. 

       74.    On December 3, 2012, the Commission instituted these proceedings against KPMG 
         
Huazhen under Rule 102(e) based on KPMG Huazhen’s conduct with respect to the Client D 
                                                                             
Request, the Client E Request, and the Client F Request.  KPMG Huazhen did not produce audit 
workpapers or related documents responsive to any of the requests to the Commission before the 
December 3, 2012 OIP. 

           5.  Requests To PwC Shanghai 

                                                               5
       75.    On  or  around  April  26,  2004,  PwC  Shanghai  applied  for  registration  with  the 
PCAOB     as  required  by  Sarbanes- Oxley,  15  U.S.C.  §  7212.    The PCAOB   confirmed  PwC 
Shanghai ’s registration as a foreign public accounting firm in a letter dated July 13, 2004.  PwC 
          
Shanghaihas remained registered with the Board since that time. 

                               
       76.    PwC Shanghai knew when it registered with the PCAOB that the PCAOB or the 
SEC could request documents under Section 106, as originally enacted as part of Sarbanes-Oxley. 

                               
       77.    PwC Shanghai knew when it registered with the PCAOB that there were possible 
                                                                                
conflicts between its obligations under U.S. and Chinese law.  PwC Shanghai described possible 
conflicts of law in its April 26, 2004 PCAOB registration filing that included a legal opinion. 

       78.    The Board’s July 13, 2004 letter confirming  PwC Shanghai’s registration stated 
                              
that, although PwC Shanghai had not provided with its application a “Consent to Cooperate” with 
Board  inspections  and  requests  for  documents,  “the  Board’s  approval  of  Pricewaterhouse’s 
registration . . . does not relieve Pricewaterhouse of the obligation to cooperate in and comply with 
Board  demands  (including  for  documents  or  testimony)  and  to  enforce  such  cooperation  and 
compliance by Pricewaterhouse’s associated persons.  If Pricewaterhouse prepares or issues, or 
plays a substantial role in preparing or issuing, an audit report with respect to any issuer . . . U.S. 
law  and  the  Board’s  rules  impose  cooperation  and  compliance  requirements  that  apply  to 
Pricewaterhouse despite the absence of a consent.” 

       79.    In March 2011, pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley Section 106(d), as amended by Dodd-
                       
Frank, PwC Shanghai designated PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC US”), the United States 
member firm of PwCIL, as its agent for receiving service of document requests under Section 106.  
                            
In so doing, PwC Shanghaiconfirmed its understanding that the PCAOB or the SEC could request 
documents under Section 106. 

                                                 
5
  On July 8, 2013, PricewaterhouseCoopers Zhong Tian LLP filed with the Public Company Accounting 
Oversight Board a notification on Form 4 that PricewaterhouseCoopers Zhong Tian LLP had succeeded 
to  the  registration  status  of  its  predecessor,  PricewaterhouseCoopers  Zhong  Tian  CPAs  Limited 
Company.   

                                               12 
 
---------------------Page 42---------------------

                                                 
                              
       80.    PwC Shanghaiknew at all relevant times it was possible that it could not, consistent 
with Chinese law, produce documents directly to the SEC in response to requests for documents 
under Sarbanes-Oxley Section 106.  PwC Shanghai also knew, no later than upon the enactment of 
Dodd-Frank, in 2010, and at all times subsequent, that the Commission retained the power to deny 
PwC Shanghai the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission to the extent PwC 
Shanghai willfully refused to comply with requests for documents under Sarbanes-Oxley Section 
106. 

                                                                                          
       81.    In the PCAOB reporting years 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013, PwC Shanghai issued 
audit reports for seventeen (17), twenty-seven (27), thirty-one (31), and twenty-three (23) U.S. 
issuers, respectively. 

       82.    PwC Shanghai was engaged to audit the financial statements of Client H for the 
fiscal year ended December 31, 2010.  In the course of this engagement, PwC Shanghai performed 
audit work on behalf of Client H related to  the fiscal  year ended  December 31, 2010.   PwC 
Shanghai did not issue any audit report with respect to Client H. 

       83.    By March 2011, the Division opened  an investigation into potential accounting 
fraud at Client H.  The investigation concerned public allegations of accounting fraud and market 
manipulation at Client  H.  Certain internet reports  alleged, among other things, that Client H 
overstated revenue and earnings by accounting for lease revenues upfront instead of recognizing 
this revenue over the duration of the leases, and that there were discrepancies between Client H’s 
cash flow and reported net income. 

                                                                                  
       84.    On February 8, 2012, the Division properly served on PwC Shanghaia Commission 
request under Section 106 for the production of “[a]ll audit work papers and all other documents 
related to any audit work or interim reviews performed for [Client H] for the fiscal year ending 
December 31, 2010” (the “Client H Request”). 

       85.    By letter dated April 12, 2012, PwC Shanghai, through its U.S. counsel, responded 
                                       
to the Client H Request.  PwC Shanghaistated in the letter that the laws and regulations of the PRC 
prohibited  the firm from providing the SEC directly with  the requested  audit workpapers and 
                                  
related documents.  PwC Shanghaidid not include any of the requested audit workpapers or related 
documents with its response. 

       86.    In April 2012, the Division issued to PwC Shanghai a Wells notice that the Division 
intended to recommend institution of proceedings against PwC Shanghai because, in the Division’s 
view, PwC Shanghai had willfully refused to comply with the Client H Request. 

                              
       87.    PwC Shanghai was engaged to audit the financial statements of Client I for the 
fiscal year ended December 31, 2010.  In the course of this engagement, PwC Shanghai performed 
audit  work  on  behalf  of  Client  I  related  to  the  fiscal  year  ended  December  31,  2010.    PwC 
Shanghai did not issue any audit report with respect to Client I. 

                                              13 
 
---------------------Page 43---------------------

                                                 
       88.    By March 2011, Division staff opened an investigation involving potential financial 
and accounting fraud at Client I.  The investigation focused on potential accounting irregularities, 
undisclosed   related   party   transactions,   misappropriation   of   corporate   assets,   and   market 
manipulation. 

                                                                                   
       89.    On March 22, 2012, the Division properly served on PwC Shanghai a Commission 
request under Section 106 for the production of “[a]ll audit work papers and all other documents 
related to any audit work performed for [Client I] for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010” 
(the “Client I Request”). 

       90.    By letter dated April 12, 2012, PwC Shanghai, through its U.S. counsel, responded 
                                       
to the Client I Request.  PwC Shanghaistated in the letter that the laws and regulations of the PRC 
prohibited  the firm from providing the SEC directly with the requested  audit workpapers and 
                                   
related documents.  PwC Shanghaidid not include any of the requested audit workpapers or related 
documents with its response. 

                                                                  
       91.    In April 2012, the Division issued to PwC Shanghaia Wells notice that the Division 
                                                                        
intended to recommend institution of proceedings against PwC Shanghaibecause, in the Division’s 
                     
view, PwC Shanghaihad willfully refused to comply with the Client I Request. 

       92.    On December 3, 2012, the Commission instituted these proceedings against PwC 
          
Shanghai under  Rule  102(e)  based  on  PwC  Shanghai’s  conduct  with  respect  to  the  Client  H 
                                                   
Request and the Client I Request.  PwC Shanghai did not produce audit workpapers and related 
documents responsive to either request to the Commission before the December 3, 2012 OIP. 

       93.    In   November   2013,   PwC   Shanghai   produced   audit   workpapers   and   related 
documents concerning Client I to the CSRC, in response to a request that PwC Shanghai had 
received from the CSRC.  In March 2014, PwC Shanghai audit workpapers and related documents 
concerning Client I were provided by the CSRC to the SEC. 

                                               14 
 
---------------------Page 44---------------------

 
                                     ANNEX B 
                                           
                          UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                     Before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File Nos. 3-14872, 3-15116 
 
                                                 ORDER  MAKING FINDINGS AND 
                                                 PARTIALLY DENYING [NAME OF 
                                                 SETTLING  RESPONDENT] THE 
In the Matter of                                 PRIVILEGE OF PRACTICING OR 
                                                 APPEARING BEFORE THE 
      BDO China Dahua CPA Co., Ltd. ;            SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE 
      Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Certified         COMMISSION  
         Public Accountants L td.; 
      Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP;   
      KPMG Huazhen (Special General      
         Partner ship); 
      PricewaterhouseCoopers Zhong Tian    
         CPAs Limited   
 
Respondents.  
 
 
 
 
                                        
 
                                         I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) issues this Order Making 
Findings And Partially Denying [Name of Settling Respondent] The Privilege of Practicing Or 
Appearing Before The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Partial Bar Order”) pursuant to the 
Offer of Settlement submitted by [Name of Settling Respondent], which was accepted by the 
Commission in its Order on the Basis of Offers of Settlement of Certain Respondents 
Implementing Settlement on [MONTH, DAY], 2015 (the “Settlement Order”). 

                                           
 
---------------------Page 45---------------------

                                                 
                                  
                                              II. 
 
       Respondent [Name of Settling Respondent (“[Short Form of Settling Respondent’s Name – 
DTTC, EYHM, KPMG Huazhen, or PwC Shanghai]” or “Respondent”)] admits the Commission’s 
jurisdiction over it in, and over the subject matter of, this proceeding and any proceeding to enforce 
or that seeks to challenge this Partial Bar Order or the Settlement Order.  In addition, Respondent 
[Short Form of Settling Respondent’s Name] consents to the entry of this Partial Bar Order, as set 
forth below. 
 
                                              III. 
 
       On the basis of this Partial Bar Order, Respondent [Short Form of Settling Respondent’s 
Name]’s Offer of Settlement, the Settlement Order, and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice, the Commission finds that: 
 
       1.     [Insert one of the following paragraphs as appropriate: 

                    As of the date of the Settlement Order, DTTC was a special general 
                    partnership providing audit and professional services in the People’s Republic 
                    of China (“China”).  DTTC was located in Shanghai, China, and was a 
                    member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (“DTT Global”), a UK 
                    private company limited by guarantee.  DTTC was a foreign public 
                    accounting firm as defined by Section 106 of Sarbanes-Oxley. 

                    As of the date of the Settlement Order, KPMG Huazhen was a special general 
                    partnership providing audit and professional services in the People’s Republic 
                    of China (“China”).  KPMG Huazhen was located in Beijing, China, and was 
                    a member firm of KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), 
                    a Swiss entity.  KPMG Huazhen was a foreign public accounting firm as 
                    defined by Section 106 of Sarbanes-Oxley. 

                    As of the date of the Settlement Order, EYHM was a special general 
                    partnership providing audit and professional services in the People’s Republic 
                    of China (“China”).  EYHM was headquartered in Beijing, China, and was a 
                    member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited (“EY Global”), a UK private 
                    company limited by guarantee.  EYHM was a foreign public accounting firm 
                    as defined by Section 106 of Sarbanes-Oxley. 

                    As of the date of the Settlement Order, PwC Shanghai was a special general 
                    partnership providing audit and professional services in the People’s Republic 
                    of China (“China”).  PwC Shanghai was headquartered in Shanghai, China, 
                    and was a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited 
                    (“PwCIL”), a UK private company limited by guarantee.  PwC Shanghai was 

                                               2 
 
---------------------Page 46---------------------

                                                   
                     a foreign public accounting firm as defined by Section 106 of Sarbanes-
                     Oxley.] 

       2.      The Settlement Order provides, inter alia, that the Commission’s Division of 
               Enforcement (“Division”), for a period of four years from the date of the Settlement 
               Order, may issue requests for assistance to the China Securities Regulatory 
                                       1
               Commission (“CSRC”)  under international sharing mechanisms with respect to 
               Respondent’s audit workpapers and related documents.  The Settlement Order also 
               provides that, on or about the date on which such a request for assistance is sent, the 
               SEC or the Division will do one or both of the following:  (A) issue a new request 
               under Section 106 of Sarbanes-Oxley, as amended by Section 929J of the Dodd-
               Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”) (“Section 
               106”), to Respondent through its designated U.S. agent, subject to certain 
               conditions set forth in the Settlement Order; and/or (B) provide Respondent with 
               notice of the request for assistance that was sent to the CSRC, specifying the 
               documents sought by the Division.  See Settlement Order, Section III.J, Paragraph 
               2(i). 

       3.      The Settlement Order further provides, inter alia, that: 

                   i.  Within ninety (90) days of receipt of such a request or within forty-five (45) 
                       days from the date Respondent receives the first corresponding request from 
                       the CSRC, whichever is later, Respondent will provide the Division with an 
                       initial declaration (“initial declaration”) which states that Respondent has 
                       produced all responsive documents, accompanied by an index describing 
                       such documents, to the CSRC for production to the SEC, subject to specific 
                       exceptions and conditions as set forth in the Settlement Order.  See 
                       Settlement Order, Section III.J, Paragraphs 2(ii)(A)-(B). 

                   ii.  Within ten (10) days of the SEC notifying Respondent that production from 
                       the CSRC to the SEC has occurred, Respondent will provide the Division 
                       directly with a certification that it has provided to the CSRC all documents 
                       responsive to the CSRC’s corresponding request except information set 
                       forth on a privilege log, and, where applicable, that it has proposed (subject 
                       to the CSRC’s review) that documents (or portions of documents) set forth 
                       on the withholding log should be withheld under Chinese law governing 
                       state sensitive information or state secrets, or for any other reason under 
                       Chinese law (“certification of completeness”).  See Settlement Order, 
                       Section III.J, Paragraph 2(ii)(C). 

                                                 
1
 References to the CSRC in the Settlement Order mean the CSRC and/or such other Chinese authority/ies 
as may be charged from time to time by the Chinese government with liaising with the SEC on matters of 
cross-border information-sharing and cooperation. 

                                                 3 
 
---------------------Page 47---------------------

                                                   
                  iii.  If Respondent does not provide the initial declaration as required by the 
                       Settlement Order, or if Respondent does not provide the certification of 
                       completeness as required by the Settlement Order, the Division shall notify 
                       Respondent of the failure and give Respondent twenty (20) days to cure the 
                       failure.  If, within twenty (20) days of the request for cure by the Division, 
                       the Respondent does not provide the initial declaration or the certification of 
                       completeness as required by the Settlement Order, the Commission, in its 
                       sole discretion, and without regard to the procedures set forth in Rule 5(c) of 
                       SEC’s Informal and Other Procedures, 17 C.F.R. § 202.5(c), may determine 
                       that the relevant Settling Respondent has not complied with its obligations 
                       under the Settlement Order and thereupon enter, without further notice, this 
                       Partial Bar Order.  See Settlement Order, Section III.J, Paragraph 3. 

       4.      On [date of request], the SEC or the Division issued a Section 106 request and/or 
               notice of a request for assistance to the CSRC for audit workpapers and related 
               documents of Respondent [Short Form of Settling Respondent’s Name], in 
               connection with a Division investigation, [investigation matter number]. 

       5.      The Commission, in its sole discretion, has determined that Respondent failed to 
               provide an initial declaration required by the Settlement Order, or that Respondent 
               failed to provide a certification of completeness as required by the Settlement 
               Order, and did not cure such failure within twenty (20) days of a request for cure by 
               the Division.  Thus, in accordance with Paragraph 3 of Section III.J of the 
               Settlement Order, the Commission, in its sole discretion, has determined that 
               Respondent has not complied with its obligations under the Settlement Order. 

                                           FINDINGS 

       6.      Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent has violated its 
               obligations under Paragraphs 2 and 3 of Paragraph III.J of the Settlement Order. 

                               

                                                 4 
 
---------------------Page 48---------------------

                                                  
                                                IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose on Respondent 
[Short Form of Settling Respondent’s Name] the remedy agreed to in [Short Form of Settling 
Respondent’s Name] Offer of Settlement, and required by the Settlement Order.  

       Accordingly, pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Respondent 
[Short Form of Settling Respondent’s Name]’s Offer of Settlement, and the Settlement Order, it is 
hereby ORDERED that Respondent [Short Form of Settling Respondent’s Name] is partially 
denied the privilege of practicing or appearing before the Commission for a period of 180 days 
commencing on [the date of this Partial Bar Order OR the day immediately following expiration of 
the last Partial Bar Order imposed on Settling Respondent under the Settlement Order, if any], as 
follows: 

       A.      Respondent is prohibited from issuing an audit report, or otherwise serving as a 
               principal auditor, for any issuer (as defined in Section 2(a)(7) of Sarbanes-Oxley); 
               and 

       B.      Respondent is prohibited from playing a 50% or greater role in the preparation or 
               furnishing of an audit report for any issuer, meaning the respondent is prohibited 
               from performing: 

               1.     Audit work that a public accounting firm uses or relies on in issuing all or 
                      part of its audit report with respect to any issuer, where the engagement 
                      hours or fees for such services constitute 50% or more of the total 
                      engagement hours or fees, respectively, provided by the principal auditor in 
                      connection with the issuance of all or part of its audit report with respect to 
                      any issuer; and 

               2.     The majority of audit work with respect to a subsidiary or component of any 
                      issuer, the assets or revenues of which constitute 50% or more of the 
                      consolidated assets or revenues of the issuer. 

        
       By the Commission. 
 
                                                     [name of Secretary or designated official] 
                                                     [Title] 
 
                                                  

                                                 5 
 
