---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                         before the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  72639 / July 17, 2014 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  3568 / July 17, 2014 

Admin. Proc. File No. 3-14171 
                                               
                                                        
                   In the Matter of                     
                                                       ORDER DENYING MOTION OR, 
                                                       IN THE ALTERNATIVE, 
           JAMES M. SCHNEIDER, CPA                     APPLICATION FOR 
                c/o W. Neil Eggleston                  MODIFICATION OF 
                Kirkland & Ellis LLP                   COMMISSION ORDER IMPOSING 
              655 Fifteenth Street, N.W.               REMEDIAL SANCTIONS   
               Washington, D.C. 20005 
                            
        

       James M. Schneider  is a certified public accountant and the former chief financial officer 
of Dell, Inc. Schneider is currently   suspended  from appearing or practicing before t he 
Commission as an accountant, with the right to apply for reinstatement after five years, pursuant 
to an order imposing remedial sanctions that we issued on December 22, 2010 under our Rule of 
Practice 102(e)(3)(i).1
                     Schneider now asks the Commission  to " clarify" that the order "does not 
prevent him from serving on the Audit Committee of General Communications, Inc. (GCI), a 
Commission registrant."  

       This is Schneider's second request to clarify our Rule 102(e) suspension order . In his first 
request, Schneider asked us to state that the order did not prohibit him "from accepting non-
accountant positions, such as positions on an audit committee or as a non-accountant CFO [chief 
financial officer]." We denied that request on July 2, 2013. We explained that to grant such relief 
                                                 
1
    James M. Schneider, CPA, Securities Exchange Act Rel.  No. 63600, 2010 WL 5183935, at 
*2 (Dec. 22, 2010)   (instituting follow-on proceedings pursuant to our Rule of Practice 102(e) 
based on Schneider's consent to a permanent injunction, disgorgement, and civil penalties in a 
U.S. district court proceeding); 17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(3)(i) (providing that the Commission may 
suspend from practicing before it any accountant who has been "permanently enjoined by any 
court of competent jurisdiction" from violating any provision of the Federal securities laws in an 
action brought by the Commission). 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                   2 

        

would "exempt entire job titles from our order, regardless of what tasks or responsibilities those 
positions entailed."2
                    In t his second request , Schneider narrows the universe of potential jobs to a 
specific position (that of GCI audit committee member). But, as explained below, his request 
suffers from the same flaw as his first: asking for a declaration  that his service on an audit 
committee will not constitute "appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant " 
based on only the title and other broad generalities about the position, rather than the actual 
conduct that Schneider might perform when serving in that role. 3
                                                                  

                                         BACKGROUND     

       The Commission filed a civil law enforcement action on July 22, 2010 against Dell  , 
Schneider, and certain other Dell executives in the United States District Court for the District of 
Columbia, charging them with fraud and various reporting and recordkeeping violations  . Among 
other things, the Commission alleged that Schneider, while serving as Dell's CFO, had  used a 
fraudulent accounting  scheme to create the false appearance that Dell was consistently meeting 
Wall Street earnings targets and reducing its operating expenses.4
                                                                  Without admitting or denying 
the allegations, Schneider consented to a permanent injunction, disgorgement , and civil 
penalties.5
           Schneider  also consented to our instituting administrative follow-on proceedings 
against him, pursuant to which Schneider agreed to be ing "suspended from appearing or 
practicing before the Commission  as an accountant ," with a right to reapply after five years , 
under Rule 102(e).6
                      

       When the Commission filed its enforcement action in U.S. district court, Schneider was 
serving as a director and audit committee member at three publicly held companies. Schneider 
subsequently resigned from two of thos e companies, but he  continued to serve as an audit 
committee member at   GCI. On August 5, 2011, Commission s    taff notified GCI and Schneider's 
counsel that, by serving on GCI's audit committee, Schneider was violating the terms of the 
Commission's Rule 102(e) suspension order  . Schneider subsequently  resigned from GCI  's audit 
committee.  

                                                 
2
    James M. Schneider, CPA                  , Exchange Act Rel. No. 69922, 2013 WL 3327751, at *4 (July 2, 
2013). 
3
    On July 11, 2014, Schneider filed a motion for expedited consideration of his latest motion 
for clarification. Because we are hereby denying Schneider's motion for clarification, Schneider's 
motion for expedited consideration is moot. 
4
    Schneider was Dell's chief accounting officer from September 1996 to November 2002 and 
was Dell's CFO from March 2000 to January 2007. The alleged misconduct occurred between 
2001 and 2006. 
5
    SEC v. Dell , No. Civ. 1:10- cv-01245 (D.D.C. Oct. 13, 2010) (imposing final judgment as to 
Schneider). 
6
    Schneider, 2010 WL 5183935, at *2.    
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                    3 

        

       A year after Schneider consented to the suspension order , Schneider filed his first request 
for clarification, arguing  that our order did not preclude him from accepting a position on an 
audit committee or as a non-accountant CFO. Approximately three months after w e denied that 
request, GCI extended an invitation for Schneider to rejoin its audit committee on the condition 
that Schneider first obtain an interpretation from the Commission, or a ruling by a court of 
competent jurisdiction, that the Rule 102(e) suspension order does not prohibit him from serving 
on the company' s audit committee.   

       On October 25, 2013, Schneider informed Commission staff of GCI's offer      to serve on  its 
audit committee and asked   Commission staff to approve his acceptance of that position. On  
January 29, 2014, the Office of the Chief Accountant ("OCA") wrote to  Schneider that OCA 
lacked the authority to approve Schneider's acceptance of a particular position. OCA  
nevertheless explained that, while it was not in a position to offer legal advice, it remained 
"willing to provide guidance with respect to any potential positions" that Schneider may be 
offered. To that end, OCA wrote that it had analyzed the functions Schneider said  he would be 
performing on GCI's audit committee, but concluded that   "it is difficult to envision how 
performance of many of these activities would be consistent with Mr. Schneider  's suspension." 
Schneider subsequently  filed the present motion for clarification, asking us to state that the Rule 
102(e) suspension order does not prevent him from serving on GCI   's audit committee .7
                                                                                        

                                            ANALYSIS   

       We suspended Schneider from appearing or practicing before us as an accountant 
pursuant to our authority under Rule 102. As we explained when denying Schneider    's first 
clarification request, Rule 102 defines "practicing before the Commission" as including but not 
limited to "[t]he preparation of any statement, opinion or other paper by any . . . accountant . . . 
filed with the Commission in any registration statement, notification, application, report or other 
document with the consent of such . . . accountant."8
                                                     This d efinition encompasses persons who 
"'participate[d] in the preparation of' financial statements filed with the Commission by, for 

                                                 
7
    As he did in his first motion, Schneider titles his present motion as a request for 
"modification" of our order . In his first motion, Schneider expressly represented that, despite the 
title of that motion, he was not seeking a modification of our order, only a clarification . See  
Schneider, 2013 WL 3327751, at *6    n.50. Schneider does not make a similarly explicit 
representation here, but the substance of his motion again does not contain a request for 
modification of our order, only a request for clarification. We therefore do not treat his present 
motion as a request to modify and thus have not applied our traditional analysis applicable to 
such modification requests.      See, e.g., Mark S. Parnass , Exchange Act Rel. No. 65261, 2011 WL 
4101087, at *2 (Sept. 2, 2011) (setting forth the standard for reviewing requests to lift or modify 
administrative bar orders). 
8
    Schneider, 2013 WL 3327751, at *4 (quoting 17 C.F.R. § 201.102(f)     ). 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                                    4 

        

example, 'creat[ing],' 'compil[ing]' or ' edit[ing]' information or data incorporated into those 
documents and consenting to their incorporation." 9
                                                    We explained:  

       Nothing in this definition discusses, let alone exempts, specific job titles, such as 
       CFO or audit committee member. This is by design. As we recognized in our 
       release adopting the 1998 amendments to Rule 102(e), the Commission      's limited 
       resources mean that the Commission and the investing public must "rely heavily 
       on accountants to assure corporate compliance with federal securities law and 
       disclosure of accurate and reliable financial information." Accountants play " a 
       particularly important role . . . in preparing and certifying the accuracy of 
       financial statements of public companies that are so heavily relied upon by the 
       public in making investment decisions." This process is impaired if incompetent 
       or unethical accountants are permitted to participate in the preparation of financial 
       statements certified and filed with the Commission. . . . These remedial purposes 
       would be undermined if we were to hold that Schneider could avoid the 
       prohibition in our Rule 102(e) order by accepting a position based only on that 
       position's title or on whether non-accountants could accept such a position.10
                                                                                      

Instead, determining whether serving in a particular role violates our order  depends on "a 'fact-
specific inquiry' into the conduct involved when serving in such a position."11
                                                                                

       Because some positions will necessarily " involve duties that increase the likelihood that 
Schneider could engage in prohibited conduct, including . . . audit committee member   ," we 
warned Schneider that, "the more a prospective position is associated with the preparation of a 
company's financial statements, the more Schneider's acceptance of such a position without prior 
approval from the Commission would be done 'at his peril.'"  12
                                                               To that end, t he Division and OCA 
have represented their willingness to provide Schneider with guidance regarding potential 
positions, and the Division has further suggested that Schneider might be able to limit his role on 
GCI's audit committee in such a way that does not conflict with our Rule 102(e) order. Yet 
Schneider has rejected any such limitation as "fanciful." Schneider contends that "[t]he board, 
shareholders, and Mr. Schneider's fiduciary duties would not tolerate such a position" and that he 
is "frankly shocked that the Staff would suggest it."13
                                                      Instead, Schneider argues that his service 

                                                 
9
    Id. (quoting    SEC v. Brown, 878 F. Supp. 2d 109, 127 (D.D.C. 2012)).  
10
    Id. (citations and footnotes omitted) (citing Robert W. Armstrong, III, Exchange Act Rel. 
No. 51920, 2005 WL 1498425, at *11–12 (June 24, 2005) (     finding that a controller, who was no 
longer a certified public accountant at the time of the alleged misconduct, was appearing or 
practicing before the Commission)). 
11
    Id. (quoting    Brown, 878 F. Supp. 2d at 127). 
12
    Id. at *6 (quoting DiCola  v. FDA , 77 F.3d 504, 509 (D.C. Cir. 1996)).  
13
    Schneider nevertheless proposes some limits to his service on GCI's audit committee by, for 
instance, promising that he will not "make specific recommendations as to how certain items 
                                                                                     (continued . . .) 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                                    5 

        

on GCI's audit committee is per se allowable under the Rule 102(e) suspension order.  But, as 
explained below, such open-ended service on GCI's audit committee could easily lead to    
appearing or practicing before us as an accountant and is why w e cannot grant Schneider the 
declaratory relief that he seeks. 

A.  Schneider's proposed oversight of GCI    's financial reporting could encompass conduct 
   that violates our Rule 102(e) suspension order. 

       Schneider argues that his service on GCI 's audit committee will fall outside the scope of 
our Rule 102(e) suspension order  because, he claims, his service will involve "mere oversight 
of," rather than  actual "participation in," the preparation of GCI's financial statements.  But 
labeling his proposed service on the committee as "mere oversight" does not mean that his actual 
service could not involve appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant. In 
fact, a court rejected the use of just such a simplistic dichotomy between accounting and non-
accounting functions in SEC v. Prince. 14
                                          

       In Prince,   the Commission filed a district court action alleging that a barred  accountant , 
Prince, violated a Rule 102(e)  bar  order  by participating in the preparation of a registrant 's filings 
while serving as a company  's "Director of Mergers and Acquisitions."15
                                                                         In hiring Prince, the 
company had created safeguards designed to "  ensur[e] that Prince would not be involved with 
the accounting department and the accounting data," including the mandate that Prince " was not 
allowed to participate in accounting staff meetings and was not allowed to work on preparation 
of [the company  's] financial statements."16
                                           The court found that, despite these safeguards, Prince 
had drafted portions of the company 's public filings, prepared financial data that was filed with 
the Commission, and made accounting judgments that affected the numbers that went into the 
financial statements—conduct the court found fell " well within" the definition of practicing as an 
accountant.17
              

       In holding   that Prince had violated our Rule 102(e) bar order , the court rejected Prince's 
argument  that " practicing accounting" encompassed only accounting department personnel and 
executives who have final authority for financial disclosures. The court found that such a 
                                                 
 (. . . continued) 
should be recorded" on the company's financial statements. But this promise appears to conflict 
with GCI's requirement that its audit committee members evaluate and choose    between 
alternative accounting treatments and is too vague for us to determine with any certainty that 
Schneider's service on GCI's audit committee will not violate our Rule 102(e) suspension order . 
See infra notes 29–30 and accompanying text (discussing GCI's audit committee charter).    
14
    942 F. Supp. 2d 108 (D.D.C. 2013).   
15
    Id. at 115. 
16
    Id. at 114–15. 
17
    Id. at 150. 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                                                    6 

        

"cramped" definition would impermissibly exclude fr   om liability "people who review and decide 
on accounting treatments, even if those actions affected the data included in the financial 
statement, unless those people have final authority to implement their suggestions."18
                                                                                       The court 
explained that  "accounting is not a mechanistic, quantitative endeavor, but instead requires many 
non-quantitative decisions on which people can reasonably disagree."  19
                                                                         "Because these non-
quantitative decisions m ay greatly affect what final numbers are included in the financial 
statements," the court further reasoned, "those who participate in making those decisions are 
'creating' and ' compiling' the relevant information, even i f they do not have final authority over  
the exact numbers that are included."20
                                         

       Schneider attempts to limit Prince's     holding by pointing to a footnote from that decision, 
which Schneider claims stands for the proposition that a  Rule 102(e) suspension "would likely 
not apply to 'non-accountant executive officers and directors, ' who simply oversee a company 's 
financial reporting."21
                      But the footnote  to which Schneider cites addressed only an assertion by 
Commission staff that "                  any editorial review " of the financial statements amounted to " practicing 
accounting."22
               The court observed that this definition of practicing accounting "could arguably 
include non-accountant executive officers and directors, who identified typographical errors or 
engaged in editorial review of public filings," but concluded that it "need not delve into this 
challenging question," because  there was substantial evidence in the record to find that the 
defendant had practiced accounting under a narrower definition.  23
                                                                   And here , Schneider 's 
proposed role on GCI's audit committee, as discussed below,  potentially involves far more than 
the identification of typographical errors in financial statements  about which the Prince court 
speculated.24
             

                                                 
18
    Id. at 147 (citing Armstrong                 , 2005 WL 1498425, at *11–12 (finding that an accountant 
practiced before the Commission as an accountant by computing figures and providing 
information incorporated into public filings despite not having final authority over whether that 
information was included in the company's filings)). 
19
    Id. at 148.  
20
     Id.  
21
    Quoting id. at 148 n.25.  
22
    Id. (emphasis added).  
23
    Id. 
24
    Schneider similarly misdescribes a footnote in           SEC v. Brown , a related decision written by 
the same judge as part of the same case against Prince. (The Brown     decision considered Prince's 
and another defendant's motions for summary judgment, while the Prince decision reflected the 
judge's ultimate findings of facts and conclusions of law following a bench trial.) According to 
Schneider, a footnote in Brown states that Rule 102(e) -barred accountants are permitted to 
oversee "financial statements and related disclosures, " so long as they do so " as a corporate 
manager, not as an accountant." Quoting Brown                                         , 878 F. Supp. 2d at 126. But, as in Prince, the 
                                                                                      (continued . . .) 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                                                   7 

        

B.  Schneider's claim that he will perform only those functions required by our rules does 
   not foreclose the possibility that his service on GCI's audit committee   could still involve 
   conduct that violates our Rule 102(e) suspension order. 

       Schneider contends that , because our suspension order does not contain a blanket 
prohibition against his serving on an audit committee, he should be able to serve on an audit 
committee so long as he performs " only those functions that all public company audit 
committees are required to perform by applicable SEC regulations ." 25
                                                                      This argument 
mischaracterizes both the nature of our rules governing audit committees and how audit 
committees actually function. We promulgated o ur audit committee rules   to provide uniform 
standards for issuers that would help ensure accurate and reliable financial reporting.26
                                                                                       But we 
did so recognizing that "decisions regarding the execution of the audit committee's oversight 
responsibilities, as well as decisions regarding the extent of desired involvement by the audit 
committee, are best                left to  the discretion of the audit committee of the individual issuer  in 
assessing the issuer's individual circumstances."27
                                                  Therefore,  while our rules "remove a certain 

                                                 
 (. . . continued) 
court's footnote in Brown                   stated only that the court need not address an argument made by 
Commission staff that "those who merely 'review' a financial statement or related disclosure" are 
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant because the record was "replete 
with genuine issues of material fact . . . as to whether [the defendant] practiced before the 
Commission as an accountant." Id. 
25
    Schneider also notes that NASDAQ rules prohibit audit committee members of its listed 
companies, of which GCI is one, from having "participated in the preparation of the financial 
statements of the Company or any current subsidiary of the Company." NASDAQ Corporate 
Governance Rule 5605(c)(2)(A). But NASDAQ's rules involve their own, distinct regulatory 
regime and therefore do not preclude us from concluding that an audit committee member could 
be involved  in "the preparation of financial statements" for purposes of our Rule 102(e).  
26
    Standards Relating to Listed Company Audit Committees          , Exchange Act Rel. No. 47654, 
2003 WL 1833875, at *3 (Apr. 9, 2003) (  emphasizing that audit committees "play[] a critical 
role in providing oversight over and serving as a check and balance on a company's financial 
reporting system"). 
27
    Id. at *15 (emphasis added); see also                             Strengthening the Commission' s Requirements 
Regarding Auditor Independence, Exchange Act Rel. No. 47265, 2003 WL 183801, at *42 (Jan. 
28, 2003) (stating that, in adopting Rule 2-07 of Regulation S-X, the Commission was "not 
requiring that [certain discussions involving the audit committee concerning accounting policies] 
follow a specific form or manner, but we expect, at a minimum, that the discussion of critical 
accounting estimates and the selection of initial accounting policies will include the reasons why 
estimates or policies meeting the criteria in the Guidance are or are not considered critical and 
how current and anticipated future events impact those determinations"). 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

                                                    8 

        

amount of individual control over the corporate governance process," they also " provid[e] great 
flexibility for implementation."28
                                   

       For example, GCI's audit committee charter provides    some specifics about how the 
company has chosen to implement our rules   , but  still leaves significant room for interpretation. 
Among other things, GCI 's charter states that its audit committee "shall review [disagreements 
between the company and its auditor] in a timely  fashion and provide a written determination 
with supporting argument for it, and the determination of the Audit Committee regarding the 
Auditor Disagreement shall be final." 29
                                        GCI's charter also requires its audit committee to, among 
other things, "review and assess" the company 's financial reporting and controls and the auditor's 
recommendations. What this language means in practice will depend heavily on the types of 
issues and disagreements that arise and how the audit committee decides to  handle them. But at 
the very least, it suggests that, by evaluating and choosing between alternative accounting 
treatments and drafting a final determination "with supporting argument  " as to th at appropriate 
accounting treatment, Schneider could engage in the type of non-  quantitative decisions that 
would violate our Rule 102(e) suspension order. 30
                                                   

       We also note that, as a practical matter, the more difficult or significant the auditing 
issue, the more the audit committee is likely to rely on members who have accounting 
expertise—such as Schneider, who is a CPA and the former chief accounting officer of Dell. 
This is not to predict that Schneider would engage in prohibited conduct while serving on GCI  's 
audit committee (which is why we have not specifically precluded him from serving in such a 
role). But  it is  why we cannot state with certainty that Schneider would not                                   engage in prohibited 
conduct.31
           And although this places some of the onus on Schneider to determine whether he can 
safely serve in a particular role, we noted in our July 2013 order that "'it is not unfair to require 
that one who deliberately goes perilously close to an area of proscribed conduct shall take the 
risk that he may cross the line.'"32
                                  

                                                 
28
    Standards Relating to Listed Company Audit Committees               , 2003 WL 1833875, at  *48;  see 
also id. at *18 ("Given the variety of listed issuers in the U.S. capital markets, we believe audit 
committees should be provided with flexibility to develop and utilize procedures appropriate for 
their circumstances."). 
29
    GCI's charter defines "Auditor Disagreements" as disagreements regarding financial 
reporting between the company and its independent certified public accountants.  
30
    Cf. Prince, 942 F. Supp. 2d at 148 (finding that Prince violated a Rule 102(e) bar order and 
noting that "non-quantitative decisions may greatly affect what final numbers are included in the 
financial statements").  
31
    Schneider, 2013 WL 3327751, at *6.    
32
    Id. (quoting DiCola, 77 F.3d at 508). As furt her support for his claim that he must be 
allowed to serve on an audit committee, Schneider points to what he describes as a lack of 
judicial or administrative precedent expressly prohibiting a Rule 102(e)-barred accountant from 
                                                                                     (continued . . .) 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

                                                    9 

        

C.  That non-accountants can serve on GCI     's audit committee does   not foreclose the 
   possibility that Schneider's service on the committee could involve conduct that violates 
   our Rule 102(e) suspension order.    

       As he did in his first motion for clarification, Schneider insists that he cannot violate our 
Rule 102(e) suspens ion order so long as he serves in a position in which non-accountants can 
also serve (which is the case with GCI 's audit committee). We rejected this argument in our July 
2013 order by explaining that persons without an accounting license  "often serve as corporate 
officers, and the integrity of the Commission's processes is threatened when they execute 
fraudulent schemes by providing falsified financial information just as when licensed 
accountants engage in this conduct."33
                                       In fact, our Rule 102(e) suspension order against 
Schneider stems from the  complaint filed in U.S. district court alleging that he engaged in just 
such a fraudulent accounting scheme while serving   in a position, CFO, that he himself 
recognizes does not require an accounting license.  

       Schneider now makes  the additional  argument that, because our suspension order requires 
him to be current on his CPA license before we will consider his application to resume practicing 
as an accountant, it "make[s] no sense" that he could violate our Rule 102(e) suspension order by 
serving in a position in which non-accountants can also serve. We disagree. We promulgated 
Rule 102(e) to ensure that accountants, on whom we rely so heavily, "perform their tasks 
diligently and with a reasonable degree of competence." 34
                                                          One way we can ensure that Schneider 
maintains such diligence and competence is to require him to be current with his CPA license 
(one of several remedial requirements in our Rule 102(e) suspension order ).35
                                                                              This requirement is 
                                                 
 (. . . continued) 
serving on such a committee. But, as we have explained, our Rule 102(e) suspension order does 
not prevent Schneider from serving on an audit committee per se. Rather, our order prohibits 
Schneider from engaging in certain activities while serving in such a role. Moreover, any lack of 
precedent on this narrow issue likely reflects only that few, if any, individuals have sought to 
serve in such a role while suspended. A possible reason for this, the Division observes, is that "it 
is likely obvious to public companies and most individuals who have been suspended that many 
of the activities required of most audit committees are likely prohibited." 
33
    Id. at *5 (quoting Armstrong, 2005 WL 1498425, at *12); see also supra notes 10–11     and 
accompanying text (discussing how the remedial purposes    of Rule 102(e) would be undermined 
if Schneider could avoid the prohibition in our order by accepting a position based on only the 
title or on whether non-accountants could accept such a position). 
34
    Marrie v. SEC, 374 F.3d 1196, 1200 (D.C. Cir. 2004) (quoting Touche Ross & Co. v. SEC                                                , 
609 F.2d 570, 582 (2d Cir. 1979)); see also  Amendment to Rule 102(e) of the Commission' s 
Rules of Practice, 63 Fed. Reg. 57,164, 57,165 (Oct. 26, 1998) (stating that, because of the 
Commission's limited resources, it "must rely on the competence and independence of . . . the 
accountants who prepare . . . financial statements"). 
35
    See Schneider , 2010 WL 5183935, at *2–3 (requiring, among other things, that Schneider 
resolve all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy and that his 
                                                                                     (continued . . .) 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

                                                   10 

        

not intended to define what it means to practice before us as an accountant. Nor, as Schneider 
claims, is it meant to serve as "an additional weapon in [our] enforcement arsenal."36
                                                                                      Rather,  it 
serves only to further the remedial purpose of Rule 102(e) by ensuring that Schneider  "is fit to 
appear and practice before the Commission."  37
                                                

D.  Our decision not to grant Schneider's requested relief does not violate his due process 
   rights. 

       Schneider also repeats the due process arguments from his previous    motion, claiming  that 
he lacked notice that his service on GCI's audit committee could violate our order and that to 
interpret our order as barring such service would represent an "abrupt" regulatory change  from 
existing precedent. As we explained  when first denying these assertions, our Rule 102(e) 
suspension order is consistent with well- established precedent and "provides a sufficient standard 
by which Schneider can judge his ability to accept a particular position."38
                                                                           Schneider offers no 
new argument in support of his due process claim  s other than the assertion , which we rejected 
above, that not declaring his service on GCI's audit committee to be per se permissible under our 
Rule 102(e) suspension order would amount to a categorical bar on all audit committee service   .39
                                                                                                    

                               

                                                 
 (. . . continued) 
application for reinstatement "must satisfy the Commission that [Schneider's]  work in his 
practice before the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of 
the public company for which he works or in some other acceptable manner"). 
36
    Quoting Touche Ross        , 609 F.2d at 579. 
37
    Id. (discussing the Commission's intent behind promulgating Rule 2(e), the predecessor to 
Rule of Practice 102(e)). 
38
    Schneider, 2013 WL 3327751, at *6 (citing DiCola                                  , 77 F.3d at 509 (concluding that it was 
"fanciful for [a debarred person] to say that he can only 'guess' at the meaning of the debarment 
order; he will usually have a pretty good idea whether a position at a firm that is not itself a drug 
manufacturer runs afoul of the remedial purpose for which he has been debarred from providing 
services to a drug house")).  
39
    See, e.g., supra          notes 31 –32 and accompanying text (noting we are not prohibiting 
Schneider from serving on GCI's audit committee per se).                                                    
---------------------Page 11---------------------

                                                   11 

        

                                        *       *      * 

       Accordingly, IT IS  ORDERED that James M. Schneider      's motion or , in the alternative, 
application for modification of the Commission's order imposing remedial sanctions is DENIED.   

       By the Commission. 

        

        

        

                                                       Jill M. Peterson  
                                                    Assistant Secretary 
