---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                              Before the 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 77542 / April 6, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3763 / April 6, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17201 
 
                                                        
                                                       ORDER INSTITUTING  PUBLIC 
In the Matter of                                       ADMINISTRATIVE A ND CEASE-AND-
                                                       DESIST PROCEEDINGS  PURSUANT TO 
        Thakkar CPA, PLLC,                             SECTIONS 4C AND 21C OF THE 
        Gregory Scott Williford, CPA,                  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  , 
        Mahesh Thakkar, CPA, and                 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S 
        Poorvesh Thakkar,                                                           
                                                       
Respondent s.                                                                                    
                                                               
 
                                                         
 
                                                   I. 
 
        The Securities and Exchange Commission  (“Commission”)  deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative  and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, 
                                   1
instituted pursuant to Sections 4C    and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 
                                                                    2
Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1) of the Commission’s  Rules of Practice  against Thakkar CPA, PLLC 

                                               
1
  Section 4C provides,  in relevant part, that:  

               The Commission  may censure any person, or deny, temporarily  or permanently,  to 
               any person the privilege  of appearing or  practicing before the Commission  in any 
               way, if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications  to 
               represent others . . . (2) to be lacking  in character or integrity,  or to have engaged 
               in unethical  or improper  professional  conduct; or (3) to have willfully  violated,  or 
               willfully  aided and abetted the violation  of, any provision  of the securities laws or 
               the rules and regulations  thereunder.  
2
  Rule 102(e)(1) provides,  in relevant part: 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

(“Thakkar CPA”), Gregory Scott Williford  (“Williford”),  and Mahesh Thakkar; and that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act 
against Poorvesh Thakkar.   
                                                    
                                                 II. 
 
       In anticipation  of the institution  of these proceedings, the Respondents have submitted 
Offers of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission  has determined to accept.  Solely for 
the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission,  or to which the Commission  is a party, and without admitting  or denying the findings   
herein, except as to the Commission’s  jurisdiction  over them and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondents consent 
to the entry of this Order Instituting  Public Administrative  and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings 
Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,  and Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s  Rules of Practice, Making  Findings,  and Imposing  Remedial Sanctions and a 
Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   
                                                    
                                                 III. 
 
                                                                                    3
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds       that:  
 
A.     SUMMARY 
        
       1.   These proceedings arise out of Thakkar CPA, PLLC d/b/a The Hall Group CPAs 
(“Thakkar CPA” or “successor firm”) issuance of 15 public company audit reports while it was not 
registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”).  Thakkar CPA’s 
audit reports misrepresented that the firm was properly licensed and registered with the PCAOB 
and falsely stated that it conducted audits in accordance with PCAOB standards.  Under 
Commission  rules and applicable state and federal law, Thakkar CPA was unqualified  to issue the 

                                                                                                                                                        
               The Commission  may censure a person or deny,  temporarily  or permanently,  the 
               privilege  of appearing or practicing  before it in any way to any person who is 
               found . . . 
                                                         *** 
               (i)     not to possess the requisite  qualifications  to represent others; or  
                                                         *** 
               (ii)    to have engaged in unethical or improper professional  conduct; or  
                                                         *** 
               (iii)    to have willfully  violated,  or willfully  aided and abetted the violation  of 
                       any provision  of the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations 
                       thereunder. 
                         
3
   The findings  herein are made pursuant to Respondents  ’ Offers of Settlement and are not 
 binding  on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   
 
                                                  2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

reports because it was not registered with the PCAOB and was not licensed in Texas to practice 
public accountancy as The Hall Group CPAs.  Additionally,  Thakkar CPA did not conduct its 
audits in accordance with professional standards. 
          
       2.   In November 2013, Mahesh Thakkar, with the assistance of his son Poorvesh, formed 
Thakkar CPA to acquire certain assets of David S. Hall, P.C. d/b/a The Hall Group CPAs 
(“predecessor firm”), including  the client list and the seller’s rights to the name The Hall Group 
CPAs. They completed the purchase and sale transaction, and hired Scott Williford  in January 
2014 to manage the firm’s audit practice.  Between January 2014 and January 2015, Williford 
authorized Thakkar CPA to issue 15 audit reports as The Hall Group CPAs and conducted 30 
reviews of interim financial information  included  in issuers’ periodic  Commission  filings.   But 
Williford  and Mahesh knew, or were at least reckless in not knowing,  and Poorvesh knew, or 
should have known, that Thakkar CPA was not licensed in Texas to practice public  accountancy as 
The Hall Group CPAs and was not registered with the PCAOB.  And, as the engagement partner 
for each of Thakkar CPA’s engagements, Williford  failed to comply with PCAOB standards when 
he authorized the firm to issue an audit report without an engagement quality review for any of the 
firm’s audits or reviews.  In addition,  Thakkar CPA improperly provided audit services to 
DynaResource, Inc., one of the 14 issuers, after David Hall joined DynaResource, Inc. as CFO in 
April 2014.  Thakkar CPA lacked the independence required of an auditor for the DynaResource, 
Inc. engagements because Thakkar CPA delivered a $313,516  buyout promissory note to David S. 
Hall, P.C. d/b/a The Hall Group CPAs which remained outstanding  even after Hall became 
DynaResource, Inc.’s CFO. 
 
B.     RESPONDENTS 
 
       3.      Thakkar CPA is a Texas corporation formed to acquire certain assets of David S. 
Hall, P.C., a Texas-based, PCAOB-registered accounting firm that was licensed to practice public 
accountancy in Texas as The Hall Group CPAs.  Between at least January 6, 2014 (the “Closing 
Date”) and January 29, 2015, Thakkar CPA issued 15 audit reports for 14 public  companies and 
conducted 30 reviews of interim financial information  for 11 public companies.  Thakkar CPA is 
neither registered with the PCAOB nor licensed in Texas to practice public  accountancy as The 
Hall Group CPAs at any time.  Although Thakkar CPA was licensed to practice public 
accountancy in Texas as “Thakkar CPA,” it has not practiced under this name and its license 
expired on June 30, 2015. 
        
       4.   Gregory Scott Williford, age 55, is a CPA licensed in Texas and was previously 
licensed in Missouri and Oklahoma.  From approximately January 17, 2014 until he resigned on 
January 29, 2015, Williford  functioned as the Managing Partner of, but had no ownership in, 
Thakkar CPA.  He served as the engagement partner on each of Thakkar CPA’s engagements.  
Prior to joining  Thakkar CPA, he was a non-equity Director from 2010 to 2013 and an equity 
partner from 2003 to 2010 of a Big Four firm and, prior to that, a partner at another large public 
accounting firm. 
        
       5.   Mahesh Thakkar, age 64 and a resident of Frisco, Texas, is a CPA licensed in Texas 
and a Chartered Accountant in India.  He is the Founding  Partner and sole shareholder of Thakkar 

                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

CPA, but did not actively participate in providing  audit services to Thakkar CPA’s clients.  He is 
Poorvesh Thakkar’s father. 
        
       6.   Poorvesh Thakkar, age 34 and a resident of Frisco, Texas, is Thakkar CPA’s Vice 
President of Operations.  He is not an accountant.  He has no known disciplinary  history.  He is 
Mahesh Thakkar’s son. 
 
C.     OTHER RELEVANT ENTITY AND INDIVIDUAL 
 
       7.   David S. Hall, P.C. is a Texas corporation which was licensed to practice public 
accountancy in Texas as The Hall Group CPAs from April 5, 2006 through May 31, 2014.  
Thakkar CPA acquired certain assets of David S. Hall, P.C. on or about January 6, 2014, after 
which the firm ceased operations.  On March 25, 2015, David S. Hall requested that David S. Hall, 
P.C.’s registration of The Hall Group, CPAs with the PCAOB be withdrawn. 
        
       8.   David S. Hall, age 57 and a resident of Lewisville,  Texas is a CPA licensed in Texas.  
Hall owns 100% of David S. Hall, P.C.  On April 15, 2014, Hall became the CFO of 
DynaResource, Inc., whose auditor was David S. Hall, P.C. d/b/a The Hall Group CPAs until 
January 29, 2014 and, thereafter, Thakkar CPA d/b/a The Hall Group CPAs. 
 
D.     FACTS 
 
       i.      Thakkar CPA Begins Doing Business as The Hall Group CPAs. 
                                                 
       9.   Thakkar CPA began operating in January 2014 after acquiring certain assets of David 
S. Hall, PC d/b/a The Hall Group CPAs and hiring Williford  as its managing partner.  Williford 
was the only CPA actively involved  in Thakkar CPA’s day-to-day operations and audit work until 
July 2014, when the firm hired an audit manager.  After Williford  resigned in January 2015, 
Thakkar CPA advertised but did not fill  an audit partner position  opening, and has since ceased 
providing  audit services to public companies. 
        
       10.  Before agreeing to sell the predecessor firm’s assets, Hall insisted that Thakkar CPA 
hire an experienced CPA to manage the firm’s audit services to be provided on public company 
engagements.  Poorvesh found Williford’s  resume online  and interviewed him.  Poorvesh is not a 
CPA nor does he have auditing  experience.  And though he believed Williford  was qualified based 
on his public accountancy experience, he did not probe the details of Williford’s  experience.  For 
instance, Poorvesh was unaware that Williford  did not audit public companies after 2010, when he 
stepped down as partner to become a director at a Big Four firm.  Indeed, the Thakkars took 
limited  steps before offering him the job to ensure that Williford  possessed a current or sufficient 
understanding of PCAOB standards, Commission  regulations or other matters for which he would 
be responsible.  Williford’s  duties and responsibilities  as managing partner included establishing 
the firm’s quality  control policies and procedures, hiring,  training,  and supervising audit personnel, 
soliciting  new business and serving as the engagement partner for all audit and review 
engagements. 
        

                                                4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

        11.  Poorvesh Thakkar served as Thakkar CPA’s Vice President of Operations, in which 
role he was responsible for administrative  oversight of the firm, human resources, cash 
management, and regulatory matters, including  Thakkar CPA’s registration with the PCAOB and 
                   4
TSBPA licensing.       Poorvesh relied on Williford  to conduct audit services in accordance with 
PCAOB standards and rules.       
 
        12.  After the Closing  Date, Hall introduced Williford  to the predecessor firm’s clients to 
facilitate the successor firm in obtaining  their audit engagements for 2014 but was otherwise 
uninvolved  in the successor firm’s 2014 audit and review engagements.  Poorvesh Thakkar 
believed that doing business as The Hall Group CPAs made it less likely  that a client would change 
to a different auditor.  Indeed, issuers included audit reports on their current and prior year 
financial statements signed by “The Hall Group CPAs” without any distinction  between 
predecessor David S. Hall, P.C. d/b/a The Hall Group CPAs and successor Thakkar CPA d/b/a The 
Hall Group CPAs.     
 
       ii.       Thakkar CPA Was Not Registered with the PCAOB 
                                                       
        13.  Sarbanes-Oxley, as amended, and PCAOB rules require public accounting firms to be 
                                                                                                        5
PCAOB-registered to prepare or issue audit reports with respect to any issuer, broker, or dealer.          
Williford,  Mahesh Thakkar, and Poorvesh Thakkar each understood that Thakkar CPA               was 
required to  be registered with the PCAOB to prepare or issue an audit report with respect to any 
issuer.    Indeed, Thakkar CPA’s primary objective in acquiring  The Hall Group CPAs – a PCAOB-
registered accounting firm – was to succeed to the firm’s registration and immediately  provide 
public company auditing  services.  However, Thakkar CPA never registered with the PCAOB. 
         
        14.  Williford  believed that Mahesh and Poorvesh Thakkar registered Thakkar CPA with 
the PCAOB but did nothing  to confirm the registration status and did not directly communicate 
with PCAOB staff at any time.  By May 2014, however, Williford  learned of negative inspection 
results related to the PCAOB’s 2013 inspection of the predecessor firm, and became concerned 
that they would be imputed to Thakkar CPA.  He understood that Poorvesh followed up with the 
PCAOB to state that new management did not want to be held responsible for the prior work under 

                                               
4
        Williford was not involved in obtaining or maintaining Thakkar CPA’s license to practice public 
accountancy in Texas or its registration with the PCAOB.   
 
5
        Section 2(a)(7) of Sarbanes-Oxley defines the term “issuer” to mean “an issuer (as defined in section 3 of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), the securities of which are registered under section 12 of that Act, or that is 
required to file reports under section 15(d), or that files or has filed a registration statement that has not yet become 
effective under the Securities Act of 1933, and that it has not withdrawn.”  Section 3(a)(8) of the Exchange Act 
defines the term “issuer” to mean “any person who issues or proposes to issue any security; except that with respect 
to certificates of deposit for securities, voting-trust certificates, or collateral-trust certificates, or with respect to 
certificates of interest or shares in an unincorporated investment trust not having a board of directors or of the fixed, 
restricted management, or unit type, the term ‘issuer’ means the person or persons performing the acts and assuming 
the duties of depositor or manager pursuant to the provisions of the trust or other agreement or instrument under 
which such securities are issued; and except that with respect to equipment-trust certificates or like securities, the 
term ‘issuer’ means the person by whom the equipment or property is, or is to be, used.” 

 
                                                     5  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

inspection and inquired  how to register Thakkar CPA as a new firm with the PCAOB.  Williford 
mistakenly understood that Poorvesh received no response from the PCAOB and simply  assumed 
the firm could continue performing audits in the absence of an explicit  PCAOB directive 
otherwise.  In a July 14, 2014 email to Poorvesh Thakkar, the PCAOB wrote, in relevant part: 
         
            “As a registered firm, Hall Group CPAs is responsible for complying  with 
            PCAOB rules and it cannot transfer its registration to another accounting firm 
            . . . Thakkar CPA PLLC must be registered with the Board to audit, or play a 
            substantial role in the audit of, an issuer or a broker-dealer.  To register with the 
            Board, the firm may submit a Form 1 registration application  for Board 
            approval.  As mentioned above, the Form 4 succession process is available 
            (1) if there has been a change in a registered firm’s form of organization  . . . or 
            (2) if a registered firm is acquired by an unregistered firm, or combines with 
            any other entity or entities, including  other registered firms, to form a new 
            public accounting firm.  Form 4 can be used only in those circumstances and 
            only if the firm seeking to succeed to registration status makes certain 
            representations in the form.  In the absence of those conditions,  a firm cannot 
            use Form 4 to succeed to the registration status of a predecessor and would need 
            to file a registration application  on Form 1 if it wished to seek registration.” 

        15.  In late October 2014, the Thakkars ultimately  filed a Form 1 in their first effort to 
register Thakkar CPA with the PCAOB, on which they disclosed that Thakkar CPA had issued 
audit reports for issuers and implicitly  acknowledged that it was unregistered when it did so.  
Thakkar CPA’s application was formally withdrawn on February 18, 2015. 
 
      iii.       Thakkar CPA Was Not Licensed to Practice Public Accountancy as The Hall 
                Group CPAs 
                                                      
        16.  Rule 2-01(a) of Regulation S-X provides that the Commission  will not recognize any 
person as either a public accountant or certified public accountant who is not in good standing as 
such under the laws of the place of his residence or principal office.  Under the Texas Public 
                   6                                         7
Accountancy Act,     a firm may not provide attest services    unless it holds a validly-issued  firm 
       8                                                                            9
license,  and only a license holder may issue a report on a financial statement.        Accordingly, an 
individual  license holder may not issue audit reports unless the entity through which he practices 
also holds a validly -issued  firm license.  Additionally,  the Public Accountancy Act sets certain 

                                               
6
        See TEX. OCC . CODE CH. 901 (the “Public Accountancy Act”). 
7 
        See the Texas Administrative Code, Rule 501.52(4), which defines “attest service” to include, among other 
things: “an audit or other engagement required by the [TSBPA] to be performed in accordance with the auditing 
standards adopted by the AICPA, PCAOB, or another national or international accountancy organization recognized 
by the [TSBPA].” 
8 
        See TEX. OCC . CODE § 901.351 (requiring firm licenses). 
9 
        See id. § 901.456 (Reports on Financial Statements; Use of Name or Signature on Certain Documents). 

                                                     6  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

restrictions on the name or designation  a firm may assume or use.  In particular, the name assumed 
                                                                                              10
or used by a corporation must include the name of at least one current or former shareholder.       
        
       17.  Thakkar CPA, a Texas corporation 100% owned by Mahesh Thakkar, did not comply 
with Texas State law’s practice and naming requirements by practicing public accountancy as The 
Hall Group CPAs.  First, Thakkar CPA was not licensed to practice as “The Hall Group CPAs.”  
Second, it is improper for Thakkar CPA to use “The Hall Group CPAs” as its business name 
                                                                                   11
because it does not include the name of at least one current or former shareholder.     Mahesh 
Thakkar knew that Thakkar CPA issued audit r    eports as The Hall Group and knew or    was reckless 
in not knowing that his firm was not licensed to do so. 
        
       18.  The Commission  therefore could not recognize Thakkar CPA as a certified public 
accountant because the firm was not duly registered and in good standing as such under the laws of 
its place of residence or principal  office as required pursuant to Rule 2-01(a) of Regulation S-X. 
 
      iv.       Williford and Thakkar CPA Failed to Conduct Audits and Reviews in 
               Accordance with Professional Standards 
                                                   
       19.  Between January 6, 2014, and January 29, 2015, Thakkar CPA issued 15 audit reports 
that 14 issuers included in filings  with the Commission.   Additionally,  Thakkar CPA conducted 30 
reviews of interim financial information  included  in Forms 10-Q that 11 issuers filed with the 
Commission.    Engagement letters, each signed by Williford  on behalf of the firm, identified 
Williford  as the engagement partner and stated that the firm will conduct its audits and reviews in 
accordance with PCAOB standards.   
          
       20.  Williford  failed to conduct Thakkar CPA’s audits and reviews in accordance with 
applicable professional standards because he: (i) failed to obtain engagement quality reviews 
(“EQR”) of any of the firm’s audits or reviews; (ii) led Thakkar CPA’s reviews of DynaResource, 
Inc.’s first, second, and third quarter 2014 financial information  while the firm was not 
independent of DynaResource, Inc.; (iii) approved the issuance of audit reports covering periods he 
did not audit; and (iv) improperly  approved the issuance of audit reports that stated the audits were 
conducted in accordance with PCAOB standards. 
 
           a.  Williford  and Thakkar CPA Failed to Obtain Engagement Quality Reviews of 

               Audits and Reviews 

       21.  Auditing  Standard No. 7, Engagement Quality Review (“AS 7”), requires auditors to 
obtain an EQR and concurring approval to issue the engagement report for each audit and interim 
review engagement. 
        
       22.  Although Williford  recognized that no one at Thakkar CPA was qualified to conduct 
EQRs, he failed to arrange for a qualified  person outside the firm to conduct them.  Instead, 

                                               
10
        See id. § 901.455 (Name requirements and restrictions). 
11 
       Hall never held any ownership interest in Thakkar CPA. 

                                                  7  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

Williford  elected to altogether forgo an EQR for all of the firm’s audit and review engagements. 
He improperly  determined that obtaining  an EQR was unnecessary because the audits did not 
involve  complex accounting or auditing  issues or issuers with significant operating activities.  The 
firm and Williford’s  failure to obtain an EQR resulted in none of Thakkar CPA’s audits or reviews 
being conducted in accordance with PCAOB standards. 
        
           b.  Thakkar CPA Was Not Independent with Respect to DynaResource, Inc. 

       23.  Thakkar CPA lacked sufficient policies and procedures concerning independence 
requirements and failed to adequately assess its independence with respect to DynaResource, Inc. 
after learning that David Hall became its CFO effective April 15, 2014.  PCAOB Quality Control 
Standard QC Section 20, System of Quality Control for a CPA Firm’s Accounting and Auditing 
Practice,  states that “[p]olicies and procedures should be established to provide the firm with 
reasonable assurance that personnel maintain independence (in fact and in appearance) in all 
required circumstances”  and that “[t]he firm and its personnel must be free from any obligation  to 
or interest in the client, its management or its owners.” QC 20.09-10.  Respondents believed that 
there were no independence issues because Thakkar CPA completed its audit for the company’s 
December 31, 2013 fiscal year and issued its audit report on April 15, 2014 – the same day Hall 
became DynaResource, Inc.’s CFO.  But Mahesh and Poorvesh Thakkar knew that David Hall had 
a direct financial interest in Thakkar CPA, who became CFO of one of Thakkar CPA’s clients in 
April 2014.  Williford,  failed to establish procedures that provided Thakkar CPA with reasonable 
assurance that Thakkar CPA and its personnel maintained independence.  Additionally,  each 
Respondent failed to consider whether either of the following  circumstances impaired Thakkar 
CPA’s independence with respect to DynaResource, Inc. in subsequent periods:  
    
     Thakkar CPA delivered a note payable to David S. Hall, P.C., which remained outstanding 
       even after Hall became DynaResource, Inc.’s CFO, as a result of the terms of the asset 
       purchase agreement, under which Thakkar paid Hall $450,000  in cash and delivered a 5%, 
       two-year promissory note for $313,516.   The final purchase price also was dependent upon 
       the future success of Thakkar CPA as the purchase price was to be adjusted up or down 
       based upon actual collection during  the three years following  the Closing  Date.  
       Additionally,  the asset purchase agreement included a provision  under which Hall could 
       earn fees for providing  services to Thakkar CPA after the Closing Date (although Hall did 
       not earn any fees under this provision). 
    
     Thakkar CPA unilaterally  suspended payments on the promissory note to David S. Hall, 
       P.C. in May 2014 after Poorvesh determined that future collections were likely to be less 
       than the amounts expected at the Closing Date.   

       24.  These events impaired Thakkar CPA’s independence with respect to its reviews of 
interim financial information  that DynaResource, Inc. included in its Forms 10-Q filed with the 
Commission  in 2014.   As a consequence of the promissory note to David S. Hall, P.C., Thakkar 
CPA was not independent of DynaResource, Inc. after Hall became its CFO on April 15, 2014, as 
required under Rules 2-01(c)(1) and 2-01(c)(3) of Regulation S-X which state, in part, that an 
accountant is not independent when the accounting firm has any loan to or from or certain business 

                                                8  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

relationships  with an audit client’s officers.  Nonetheless, Thakkar CPA continued to provide audit 
services.   
        
           c.  Thakkar CPA Issued Audit Reports Covering Periods It Did Not Audit 

       25.  Thakkar CPA improperly issued 13 audit reports that expressed an opinion  on one or 
two prior periods it did not audit.  As noted above, issuers included audit reports on their current 
and prior year financial statements signed by “The Hall Group CPAs,” without any distinction 
between predecessor David S. Hall, P.C. d/b/a The Hall Group CPAs and successor Thakkar CPA, 
PLLC d/b/a The Hall Group CPAs.    
        
       26.  Williford  knew Thakkar CPA, PLLC d/b/a The Hall Group CPAs was a different audit 
firm than David S. Hall, P.C. d/b/a The Hall Group CPAs.  However, Williford,  did not plan and 
perform audit procedures on the financial information  relating to the periods that were audited by 
David S. Hall, P.C. d/b/a The Hall Group CPAs.  Nonetheless, Williford  authorized Thakkar CPA 
to issue audit reports containing  opinions  on financial statements for periods that it did not audit.  
Among other violations,  this violated PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 15, Audit Evidence, (“AS 
15”) because Williford  failed to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to afford a reasonable 
basis for Thakkar CPA’s opinions  covering periods audited by David S. Hall, P.C. d/b/a The Hall 
Group CPAs.  See AS 15, ¶ 4. 
 
           d.  Improper Issuance of Reports on Audited Financial  Statements 

       27.  Under AU 508, an auditor may only issue an unqualified  opinion  on historical 
financial statements when the auditor has formed such an opinion  on the basis of an audit 
performed in accordance with PCAOB standards.  AU 508.07.  Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X 
requires an accountant’s report to state whether the audit was made in accordance with generally 
accepted auditing standards.  “[R]eferences in Commission  rules and staff guidance and in the 
federal securities laws to GAAS or to specific standards under GAAS, as they relate to issuers, 
should be understood to mean the standards of the PCAOB plus any applicable rules of the 
Commission.” Commission Guidance Regarding the Public Company Accounting Oversight 
Board’s Auditing and Related Professional Practice Standard No. 1, Rel. No. 34-49708 (May 14, 
2004).  Thus, an auditor violates Regulation S-X Rule 2-02(b)(1) if it issues a report stating that it 
had conducted its audit in accordance with PCAOB standards when it had not. See In re Andrew 
Sims, CPA, Rel. No.34-59584, AAER No. 2950 (Mar. 17, 2009).  As described above, Williford 
failed to obtain an EQR as required under AS 7 for any of Thakkar CPA’s audit engagements  
Additionally,  Williford  failed to plan and perform audit procedures to obtain sufficient appropriate 
audit evidence to provide a reasonable basis for Thakkar CPA’s opinions as required under AS 15, 
with respect to periods previously  audited by David S. Hall, P.C., d/b/a The Hall Group CPAs.  
Thus, Thakkar CPA should not have issued, and Williford  should not have approved the issuance 
of, audit reports asserting that Thakkar CPA had conducted its audits in accordance with PCAOB 
standards. 

                                                9  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

 
E.     VIOLATIONS 
 
       28.  As a result of the conduct described above, Thakkar CPA did not possess the requisite 
qualifications  to represent others and therefore is subject to Section 4C(a)(1) of the Exchange Act 
and the Commission’s  Rules of Practice Rule 102(e)(1)(i). 
        
       29.  As a result of the conduct described above, Thakkar CPA, Williford,  and Mahesh 
Thakkar engaged in improper professional conduct subject to Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange 
Act and the Commission’s  Rules of Practice 102(e)(1)(ii).   
        
       30.  As a result of the conduct described above, Thakkar CPA willfully  violated, Williford 
and Mahesh Thakkar willfully  aided and abetted, and Poorvesh Thakkar caused Thakkar CPA’s 
violations  of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X which requires an accountant’s report to state 
whether the audit was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.   
 
       31.  As a result of the conduct described above, Thakkar CPA willfully  violated, Williford 
and Mahesh Thakkar willfully  aided and abetted, and Poorvesh Thakkar caused Thakkar CPA’s 
violations  of Section 102(a) of Sarbanes-Oxley which makes it unlawful for any person that is not 
a registered public accounting firm to prepare or issue, or to participate in the preparation or 
                                                       12
issuance of, any audit report with respect to any issuer.    
 
       32.  As a result of the conduct described above, Thakkar CPA, Williford,  Mahesh Thakkar 
and Poorvesh Thakkar caused issuers to violate Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 
and 13a-13 thereunder which require every issuer of a security registered pursuant to Section 12 
of the Exchange Act file with the Commission  periodic  reports as the Commission  may require, 
and mandate that periodic  reports contain such further material information  as may be necessary 
to make the required statements not misleading.  The obligation  to file such reports embodies the 
requirement that they be true and correct.  Williford  authorized issuers to include Thakkar CPA’s 
audit reports that falsely stated that the audits had been conducted in accordance with PCAOB 
standards.  Additionally,  Mahesh Thakkar, Poorvesh Thakkar, and Williford  knew that issuers 
included the firm’s audit reports, which they knew or should have known falsely represented that 
the firm was registered with the PCAOB, in filings  with the Commission.   Additionally,  Mahesh 
Thakkar knew or should have known that Thakkar CPA was not licensed to practice accountancy 
as The Hall Group CPAs and therefore was not recognized as an accountant under Rule 2-01 of the 
Regulation S-X. 
        

                                               
12
       A violation of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or any rule issued by the PCAOB under the Act is treated in the 
same manner as a violation of the Exchange Act 15 U.S.C.A. § 7202(b)(1). 
                                                10   
---------------------Page 11---------------------

F.     FINDINGS 
 
       Based on the foregoing, the Commission  finds that: 
 
       a.      Thakkar CPA does not possess the requisite qualifications  to represent others 
pursuant to Section 4C(a)(1) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(i) of the Commission’s  Rules 
of Practice;   
 
       b.      Thakkar CPA, Williford  and Mahesh Thakkar engaged in improper professional 
conduct pursuant to Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the 
Commission’s  Rules of Practice. 
 
       c.      Thakkar CPA (i) willfully  violated Rules 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X and Section 
102(a) of Sarbanes-Oxley; and (ii) caused issuers to violate Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and 
Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder; 
 
       d.      Williford  (i) willfully  aided and abetted Thakkar CPA’s violations  of Rule 
2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X and Section 102(a) of Sarbanes-Oxley; and (ii) caused issuers to 
violate Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder; 
 
       e.      Mahesh Thakkar (i) willfully  aided and abetted Thakkar CPA’s violations of Rule 
2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X and Section 102(a) of Sarbanes-Oxley; and (ii) caused issuers to 
violate Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder; and 
 
       f.      Poorvesh Thakkar (i) caused Thakkar CPA’s violations  of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of 
Regulation S-X and Section 102(a) of Sarbanes-Oxley; and (ii) caused issuers to violate Section 
13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder. 
        
                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission  deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanctions agreed to in the Respondents’ Offers. 
 
       Accordingly,  it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately,  that: 
 
       A.      Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Thakkar CPA, Williford,  Mahesh 
Thakkar, and Poorvesh Thakkar shall cease and desist from committing  or causing any violations 
or future violations  of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, and 13a-13 
thereunder, Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation  S-X, and Section 102(a) of Sarbanes-Oxley. 
 
       B.      Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(i), (ii) 
and (iii) of the Commission’s  Rules of Practice Respondent Thakkar CPA be, and hereby is denied 
the privilege  of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant. 
        

                                                11   
---------------------Page 12---------------------

       C.      Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) and 
(iii) of the Commission’s  Rules of Practice Respondent Mahesh Thakkar be, and hereby is denied 
the privilege  of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant. 
        
       D.      After five years from the date of this Order, Mahesh Thakkar may request that the 
Commission  consider his reinstatement by submitting  an application  (attention:  Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission  as: 
 
               1.  a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible  for the preparation or review, 
                   of any public  company’s financial  statements that are filed with the 
                   Commission.  Such an application  must satisfy the Commission  that Mahesh 
                   Thakkar’s work in his practice before the Commission  will  be reviewed either 
                   by the independent  audit committee of the public  company for which he 
                   works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
                   Commission  in this capacity; and/or 
                           
               2.  an independent  accountant. Such an application  must satisfy the Commission 
                   that: 
        
                          a)  Mahesh Thakkar, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
                              associated, is registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the 
                              Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be 
                              effective; 
                               
                          b)  Mahesh Thakkar, or the registered public accounting firm with which 
                              he is associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB and that 
                              inspection did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in his 
                              or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that Mahesh 
                              Thakkar will not receive appropriate supervision; 
                               
                          c)  Mahesh Thakkar, has resolved all disciplinary  issues with the 
                              PCAOB, and has complied  with all terms and conditions  of any 
                              sanctions imposed by the PCAOB (other than reinstatement by the 
                              Commission);  and  
        
                          d)  Mahesh Thakkar acknowledges his responsibility,  as long as 
                              Mahesh Thakkar appears or practices before the Commission  as an 
                              independent  accountant, to comply  with all requirements of the 
                              Commission  and the PCAOB, including,  but not limited  to, all 
                              requirements relating  to registration,  inspections,  engagement 
                              quality  review, and quality  control standards. 
 
       E.      The Commission  will consider an application by Mahesh Thakkar to resume 
appearing or practicing  before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he 
has resolved all other disciplinary  issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 

                                                12   
---------------------Page 13---------------------

if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission,  the Commission  will consider 
an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in 
addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Mahesh Thakkar’s character, 
integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
       F.      Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) and 
(iii) of the Commission’s  Rules of Practice Respondent Williford  be, and hereby is denied the 
privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission  as an accountant. 
        
       G.      After five years from the date of this Order, Williford  may request that the 
Commission  consider his reinstatement by submitting  an application  (attention:  Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission  as: 
 
               1.  a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible  for the preparation or review, 
                   of any public  company’s financial  statements that are filed with the 
                   Commission.   Such an application  must satisfy the Commission  that 
                   Williford’s  work in his practice before the Commission  will  be reviewed 
                   either by the independent  audit committee of the public  company for which he 
                   works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
                   Commission  in this capacity; and/or 
                            
               2.  an independent  accountant. Such an application  must satisfy the Commission 
                   that: 
        
                           a)  Williford,  or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, 
                              is registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the Sarbanes-
                              Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
                               
                           b)  Williford,  or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
                              associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB and that inspection did 
                              not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in his or the firm’s 
                              quality control system that would indicate that Williford  will not 
                              receive appropriate supervision; 
                               
                           c)  Williford,  has resolved all disciplinary  issues with the PCAOB, and 
                              has complied  with all terms and conditions  of any sanctions 
                              imposed by the PCAOB (other than reinstatement by the 
                              Commission);  and  
        
                           d)  Williford  acknowledges his responsibility,  as long  as Williford 
                              appears or practices before the Commission  as an independent 
                              accountant, to comply  with all requirements of the Commission 
                              and the PCAOB, including,  but not limited  to, all requirements 
                              relating  to registration,  inspections,  engagement quality  review, 
                              and quality  control standards. 

                                                 13   
---------------------Page 14---------------------

 
       H.      The Commission  will consider an application  by Williford  to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission  provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary  issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, if 
state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission,  the Commission  will  consider an 
application  on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in 
addition  to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Williford’s  character, 
integrity,  professional conduct, or qualifications  to appear or practice before the Commission. 
        
       I.      Thakkar CPA shall pay disgorgement of $285,355,  prejudgment interest of $10,132 
and civil  penalties of $64,000,  to the Securities and Exchange Commission  for transfer to the 
general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  Payment 
shall be made in the following  installments:    
 
               (i)     $44,935.88  within 14 days of the entry of this Order; 
               (ii)    $44,935.88  within 120 days of the entry of this Order; 
               (iii)   $44,935.88  within 240 days of the entry of this Order;  
               (iv)    $44,935.88  within 365 days of the entry of this Order; 
               (v)     $44,935.88  within 455 days of the entry of this Order; 
               (vi)    $44,935.88  within 545 days of the entry of this Order; 
               (vii)   $44,935.88  within 635 days of the entry of this Order; and 
               (viii)   $44,935.84  within 730 days of the entry of this Order. 
        
       If any payment is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire 
outstanding balance of disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and civil  penalties, plus any additional 
interest accrued pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600 and/or pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, shall be 
due and payable immediately,  without further application.   
 
       J.      Mahesh Thakkar shall pay civil  penalties in the amount of $32,000  to the Securities 
and Exchange Commission  for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to  
Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  Payment shall be made in the following  installments: 
        
               (i)     $8,000 within 14 days of the entry of this Order; 
               (ii)    $8,000 within 120 days of the entry of this Order; 
               (iii)   $8,000 within 240 days of the entry of this Order; and 
               (iv)    $8,000 within 365 days of the entry of this Order. 
        
       If any payment is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire 
outstanding balance of civil penalties, plus any additional  interest accrued pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 
3717, shall be due and payable immediately,  without further application.   
 
       K.      Poorvesh Thakkar shall pay civil  penalties in the amount of $16,000  to the 
Securities and Exchange Commission  for transfer to the general fund of the United States 
Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  Payment shall be made in the following 
installments: 

                                                 14   
---------------------Page 15---------------------

        
               (i)    $4,000 within 14 days of the entry of this Order; 
               (ii)   $4,000 within 120 days of the entry of this Order; 
               (iii)  $4,000 within 240 days of the entry of this Order; and 
               (iv)   $4,000 within 365 days of the entry of this Order. 
                
       If any payment is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire 
outstanding balance of civil penalties, plus any additional  interest accrued pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 
3717, shall be due and payable immediately,  without further application. 
                
       L.      Williford  shall pay civil penalties of $32,000 to the Securities and Exchange 
Commission  for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury in  accordance with 
Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  Payment shall be made in the following  installments:  $10,667 
within 14 days of the entry of this Order, $10,667 within 120 days of the entry of this Order, and 
$10,666 within  240 days of the entry of this Order.  If any payment is not made by the date the 
payment is required by this Order, the entire outstanding balance of civil  penalties, plus any 
additional  interest accrued pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, shall be due and payable immediately, 
without further application.   
 
Payments ordered must be made in one of the following  ways:   
 
               (1)    Respondents may transmit payment electronically  to the Commission, 
                      which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon 
                      request;  
                
               (2)    Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
                
               (3)    Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission  and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
               Enterprise Services Center 
               Accounts Receivable Branch 
               HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
               6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
               Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Thakkar CPA, Williford,  Mahesh Thakkar, or Poorvesh Thakkar as a Respondent in these 
proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or 
money order must be sent to David Peavler, Division  of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange 
Commission,  801 Cherry Street, Suite 1900, Fort Worth, TX 76102.   
 

                                                15   
---------------------Page 16---------------------

       M.      Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be 
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including  all tax purposes.  To 
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil  penalty, Respondents agree that in any Related Investor 
Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or reduction of 
any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil 
penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset").  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a 
Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that they shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order 
granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's  counsel in this action and pay the amount of 
the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   Such a payment shall not be 
deemed an additional  civil  penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil 
penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" 
means a private damages action brought against Respondents by or on behalf of one or more 
investors based on substantially  the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted  by the 
Commission  in this proceeding. 
 
                                                 V. 
 
       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings  in this Order are true and admitted by 
Williford,  Mahesh Thakkar, and Poorvesh Thakkar, and further, any debt for disgorgement, 
prejudgment interest, civil  penalty or other amounts due by Williford,  Mahesh Thakkar, or 
Poorvesh Thakkar under this Order or any other judgment,  order, consent order, decree or 
settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation  by 
Williford,  Mahesh Thakkar, or Poorvesh Thakkar of the federal securities laws or any regulation or 
order issued under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. 
§523(a)(19). 

 
                    
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                      Brent J. Fields 
                                                      Secretary 
 
 
 
 

                                                 16   
