---------------------Page 1---------------------

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17510 
 
SEC Suspends Public Accountant for Deficient Audits 
 
August 29, 2016 – The Securities and Exchange Commission today     announced the 
suspension of Thomas Dulek, a California -based accountant from practicing or appearing 
before the SEC based on his violations of important auditing standards.   
 
An SEC investigation found that Dulek conducted deficient audits of the fiscal years 
2011 and 2012 financial statements of OCZ Technology   Group, Inc., a now-bankrupt 
company that manufactured and sold memory storage and power supply devices.  The 
investigation found that Dulek failed to adequately audit (a) OCZ’s accounting treatment 
of credits that it provided to customers, purportedly for marketing activities, but which, in 
fact, were used as a mechanism to provide sales discounts to customers and were 
improperly recorded as marketing expenses; (b) OCZ’s failure to include labor and 
overhead costs relating to inventory manufacturing in valuing its inventory, a departure 
from generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”); (c) sales cut-off at the end of 
the year (OCZ’s policies resulted in the recognition of revenue before it was earned ); and 
(d) OCZ’s GAAP departure in accounting for sal es returns.  Dulek violated a number of 
auditing standards, including the requirements that auditors exercise due professional 
care in conducting audits and that engagement partners properly supervise their teams.   
 
The SEC’s order finds that Dulek engage d in improper professional conduct pursuant to 
Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e) of the SEC’s Rules of Practice.  
Without admitting or denying the findings in the Commission’s order, Dulek agreed to be 
suspended from appearing and practicing before the SEC as an accountant, which 
includes not participating in the financial reporting or audits of public companies.  The 
SEC’s order permits Dulek to apply for reinstatement after three years. 
 
Previously, the SEC charged two former top executives at OCZ   for making material 
misstatements, among other things. 
 
The SEC's investigation has been conducted by Ian Dattner, under the supervision of 
Assistant Director Lisa Deitch.  Trial Counsel Kevin Lombardi also participated in the 
investigation. 
  
See also:      Order 
 
 
