---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 75860 / September 9, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3690 / September 9, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16798 
 
                                              
In the Matter of                               ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE- AND-
                                             DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
      RONALD E. HEINEMAN,                    SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                             EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING 
Respondent.                                  FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE -
                                             AND- DESIST ORDER AND CIVIL 
                                             PENALTY 
       

                                           I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Ronald E. Heineman (“Heineman” or 
“Respondent”).  
                                             
                                           II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondent consents 
to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              III. 
 
                                                                             1
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that:  
 
A.     SUMMARY 
            
       1.     These proceedings concern materially misleading statements and omissions made 
by Heineman, the chief executive officer (“CEO”) of General Employment Enterprises, Inc. 
(“GEE” or the “Company”) in 2009, to the Company’s auditors after substantially all of the 
Company’s cash—$2.3 million—was unaccounted for.     

B.     RESPONDENT 
        
       2.     Heineman, age 57 and a resident of Cincinnati, Ohio, served as the CEO of GEE 
from July 1, 2009 through December 23, 2009.  Heineman also served as manager of River Falls 
Financial Services, LLC from as early as January 2009 through April 29, 2011. 

C.     RELEVANT ENTITIES AND INDIVIDUALS 
        
       3.     GEE is an Illinois corporation headquartered in Oakbrook Terrace, Illinois that 
provides professional placement services and temporary staffing services in certain industries.  
GEE’s common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the 
Exchange Act and trades on the NYSE MKT stock exchange.  GEE files periodic reports, 
including Forms 10-K and 10-Q, with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange 
Act and related rules thereunder. 

       4.     River Falls Financial Services, LLC (“River Falls Financial”), River Falls 
Investments, LLC f/k/a Oxygen Unlimited II, LLC (“River Falls Investments”), River Falls 
Holdings, LLC (“RFH”), Accredited Investor Resources, LLC f/k/a Oxygen Investment 
Partners, LLC (“AIR”), Oxygen Unlimited, LLC (“Oxygen”), O2HR, LLC (“O2HR”), SDH 
Realty, LLC (“SDH”), WTS Acquisition LLC (“WTS”), H2H Holdings, LLC (“H2H”), and 
PSQ, LLC (“PSQ”) (collectively, the “Affiliated Entities”) are purported holding, investment, 
employment-related, and insurance companies.  River Falls Financial, AIR’s administrative 
member, purportedly owned at least 99% of AIR’s common units and millions of dollars of AIR’s 
preferred units.  AIR was purportedly an investment company designed to make investments in 
River Falls Investments and certain other of the Affiliated Entities.  River Falls Investments was a 
purported holding company of Oxygen, which was a purported holding company of O2HR, a 
professional employer organization.  RFH was the purported holding company of River Falls 
Investments.  PSQ was a purported holding company whose sole asset was GEE shares 
representing a controlling stake in the Company acquired as of July 1, 2009. 
        

                                                 
1
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent ’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding 
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                               2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                2
       5.      During at least 2009 and 2010, Wilbur Anthony Huff (“Huff”)  exercised 
substantial financial and management control during at least 2009 and 2010 over numerous 
entities, including, among others, the Affiliated Entities and their holdings.  As a convicted felon, 
Huff faced legal and practical barriers to operating business entities in his own name, particularly 
business in regulated industries, including employment-related, insurance, and banking companies.  
Huff installed other business partners, including Heineman, to perform day-to-day operational 
functions and/or serve as the listed owners, directors, or managers.  From as early as May 2008 
through at least November 2009, Huff paid Heineman as much as $15,000 per month through the 
Affiliated Entities, mostly through River Falls Investments.  In exchange, Heineman agreed to 
serve as the listed officer, director, or manager for GEE, River Falls Financial, and many of the 
Affiliated Entities and also purportedly advised Huff on various matters. 
        
       6.      Park Avenue Bank (“PAB” or “the Bank”) was a New York State chartered bank 
until it was closed by the New York State Banking Department on March 12, 2010, and the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation was named Receiver.  The Affiliated Entities primarily 
conducted their banking business through PAB.  Charles J. Antonucci, Sr. (“Antonucci”) served 
as the president and CEO of PAB from June 2004 until October 2009.  In October 2010, Antonucci 
pled guilty to multiple criminal charges, including securities fraud, bank bribery, embezzlement, 
and providing a false confirmation to BDO of GEE’s purported CD at PAB.  Separately, Park 
Avenue Insurance was a private insurance company owned by Antonucci that was not affiliated 
with PAB.   

       7.      BDO USA, LLP (“BDO”), formerly known as BDO Seidman, LLP, is a Delaware 
limited liability partnership and a PCAOB-registered public accounting firm with its headquarters 
in Chicago, Illinois.  BDO served as GEE’s independent auditor from 2004 through 2012. 

       8.      Stephen B. Pence (“Pence”), age 60 and a resident of Louisville, Kentucky.  As of 
July 1, 2009, Pence became a beneficial owner of a majority of GEE’s common stock through a 
holding company, PSQ, LLC (“PSQ”), with the right to appoint three directors, including himself 
as chairman of the board, and to designate a CEO, a position he assigned to Heineman.  Pence 
served as the chairman of the board of GEE until November 17, 2010.  Pence formerly served as 

                                                 
2
 Huff pled guilty to federal mail fraud charges for obtaining insurance premiu m finance  loans 
under false pretenses in the Western District of Kentucky in 2003.  In 2008, the Commission   filed 
charges against Huff related to a scheme to misappropriate assets from  and  to record fake letters of 
c redit  at  Certified Services, Inc. (“Certified”).  SEC v. Huff, 08-CV-60315 (S.D. Fla.).  On October 
22, 2010, the Court entered judgment for the Commission against Huff requiring him to pay more 
than $13 million, among other relief.  Separately, after an October 2012 indictment against him, 
Huff pled guilty on December 23, 2014 to an information, which alleged, among other things, that:  
(1) Huff controlled GEE, in whole or in part, by installing other individuals; (2) Huff participated 
with Antonucci in a conspiracy in which they stole $2.3 million from GEE and Huff later returned 
the $2.3 million to GEE from three companies he controlled; and (3) a large portion of the $2.3 
million received by GEE were funds entrusted to Oxygen by its clients for payment of the clients’ 
employment tax and other obligations.  U.S. v. Huff, 12-CR-750 (S.D.N.Y.). 

                                                 3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

the lieutenant governor of Kentucky from 2003 to 2007 and the United States Attorney for the 
Western District of Kentucky from 2001 to 2003. 

       9.     Salvatore J. Zizza (“Zizza”) served as CEO of GEE from December 23, 2009, the 
day that Heineman resigned as CEO, through December 2012.  Prior to his appointment as CEO, 
Zizza received monthly payments of $20,000 from PSQ, which were funded by several of the 
Affiliated Entities, for purported consulting services, and Zizza frequently attended GEE board 
meetings as an “invited guest.”  In 2009, businesses owned or operated by Zizza received loans in 
excess of $1 million that Huff directed from certain of the Affiliated Entities.   
        
       10.    Associate-1 was another of Huff’s business partners and was listed or served at 
various times as a manager of River Falls Investments, Oxygen, and O2HR, and as co-manager of 
River Falls Financial with Heineman.  Associate-1 was also involved in PSQ’s acquisition of a 
controlling stake in GEE and attended several GEE board meetings in 2009.  In addition, from July 
2009 until September 2009, Associate-1 was a signatory on GEE’s bank account at PAB despite 
the fact that Associate-1 was not an official employee, officer, or director of the Company.   
Associate-1 also purported to be the owner of WTS (another of the Affiliated Entities), a holding 
company of On-Site Services, Inc. (“On-Site”) and Ameritemps, Inc. (“Ameritemps”), which 
WTS had acquired in January 2009 with funding from other Affiliated Entities.  Almost 
immediately after PSQ’s acquisition of a controlling stake in GEE, Heineman began presenting 
proposals to GEE’s board for GEE to acquire these companies.  For example, at a GEE board 
meeting on August 10, 2009, attended by Pence and Zizza, the board authorized Heineman to enter 
into a letter of intent with WTS to acquire On-Site, and Heineman reported that he would present 
another acquisition candidate, Ameritemps, at the September board meeting. 
        
D.     BACKGROUND 

       11.    GEE’s May 18, 2009, definitive proxy statement disclosed that in January 2009, 
GEE began discussions with representatives of River Falls Financial concerning the possibility of a 
tender offer and direct cash investment in GEE.  The River Falls Financial representatives included 
Heineman and Pence, and Huff was present for one of the relevant meetings.  The proxy statement 
further disclosed that, on February 11, 2009, River Falls Financial and PSQ, a special purpose 
vehicle purportedly formed by Pence, entered into a non-binding letter of intent with GEE for a 
purchase and tender offer agreement to obtain a controlling stake in GEE.     

       12.    According to GEE’s May 18, 2009, definitive proxy statement, on March 30, 2009, 
after negotiations continued following the February 2009 non-binding letter of intent, Pence signed 
on behalf of PSQ a definitive securities purchase and tender offer agreement (the “Purchase 
Agreement”).  The Purchase Agreement provided that, subject to shareholder approval, PSQ would 
acquire a controlling stake in GEE by (1) purchasing 7,700,000 newly-issued shares of GEE 
common stock in a private placement transaction at a purchase price of $0.25 per share for a total 
purchase price of $1,925,000; (2) commencing a cash tender offer to purchase from the Company’s 
shareholders up to 2,500,000 shares of common stock at a purchase price of $0.60 per share; (3) 
appointing three directors to a five-member board of directors, including Pence becoming the 
chairman of the board; and (4) designating Heineman GEE’s CEO.  On June 22, 2009, a GEE 
press released announced shareholders approved the Purchase Agreement and the closing of the 

                                               4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

Purchase Agreement was announced on July 1, 2009.  As a result, PSQ acquired more than 65% 
ownership of the Company, Pence became GEE’s chairman and appointed two other directors, and 
Heineman became GEE’s CEO. 

       13.    Although Pence purported to be sole member and owner of PSQ, as Heineman 
knew, PSQ was one of the Affiliated Entities over which Huff exercised substantial financial and 
management control.  Virtually all of the funds deposited in PSQ’s bank accounts during 2009 
were deposits made directly from several of the Affiliated Entities, including AIR, Oxygen, River 
Falls Financial, and RFH, typically at the direction of Huff.  Specifically, in almost every instance 
in which PSQ needed to make a payment, PSQ received the necessary funds from one of the 
Affiliated Entities and immediately paid the obligation with the deposited funds.  For example, to 
fund PSQ’s obligations under the Purchase Agreement, AIR transferred $1,925,000 to PSQ, and to 
cover PSQ’s tender offer obligations, AIR transferred $850,000 and Oxygen transferred $372,000 
(a total of $1,222,000) to PSQ.  In exchange, Huff required Pence to sign two purported 
promissory notes to AIR in his personal capacity for these amounts ($1,925,000 and $1,222,000), 
even though $372,000 had been provided by Oxygen.  Although the two promissory notes required 
Pence to pay annual interest of 5%, Huff did not actually require Pence to make any interest 
payments to AIR and no payments were made. 

       14.    In late June 2009, Pence arranged for Associate-1 to become a signatory on GEE’s 
bank account at PAB and Associate-1 remained a signatory from July 2009 until September 2009.  
In addition, Associate-1 negotiated certain employment and other agreements on behalf of GEE, 
and Associate-1 attended several GEE board meetings in 2009.  At the same time, Huff and 
Associate-1 controlled WTS, which owned a number of companies that Huff and Associate-1 
intended to sell to GEE.  Because Huff and Associate-1 controlled WTS, Pence did not appoint 
Associate-1 to be an officer, director, or employee of GEE, which avoided scrutiny of this clear 
conflict of interest. 

       15.    Huff and his business partners—including Pence, Heineman, and Associate-1—
created a number of oral and written side agreements regarding ownership, profit sharing, and 
management of the Affiliated Entities.  For example, at the time AIR purportedly loaned Pence the 
funds for PSQ’s transaction with GEE, Pence had no ability to repay the loans without fully 
liquidating the GEE shares purchased by PSQ.  Thus, in consideration for AIR’s purported loans to 
Pence, Pence and Huff orally agreed that if GEE’s stock price increased Pence would compensate 
AIR with GEE shares in addition to repaying the amounts of the promissory notes.  As a result, 
Huff and AIR had a beneficial ownership interest in the GEE shares held by PSQ, which was not 
disclosed.   

       16.    From March 2009 through at least April 2010, in connection with PSQ’s majority 
ownership of GEE, PSQ paid Zizza $20,000 per month purportedly for consulting work.  Huff 
funded PSQ’s payments to Zizza through the Affiliated Entities.  For example, Pence notified Huff 
on January 2, 2010 that PSQ needed to pay Zizza for consulting and specifically asked Huff and 
Huff’s assistant to deposit money into PSQ’s account so PSQ could pay Zizza.  Huff’s assistant 
sent PSQ a check from a River Falls Financial account on January 4, 2010, and Pence sent Zizza a 
check from PSQ’s account for $20,000 on the same date.  Zizza advised Pence and Huff on several 
acquisitions that GEE was considering in 2009.  Huff and Pence also promised Zizza that if GEE’s 

                                               5  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

stock price increased, they would compensate Zizza with at least 500,000 GEE shares.  Zizza 
became the CEO of GEE on December 23, 2009. 

       17.    As part of his arrangement with Huff, Heineman served in various roles at several 
of the Affiliated Entities and signed numerous agreements involving the Affiliated Entities, 
including: 

            Heineman signed a December 2008 agreement on behalf of WTS in which WTS 
              purchased the Ohio assets of Ameritemps, Inc., which later became two companies 
              that GEE purchased in 2010, RFFG of Cleveland, LLC and DMCC Staffing, LLC.  

            At Huff’s direction, Heineman personally guaranteed a loan of $1.5 million made 
              by PAB to a Affiliated Entity called Aviation Solutions, LLC.   

            Heineman served as an authorized signer on several bank accounts that certain 
              Affiliated Entities had with PAB. 

            At Huff’s direction, Heineman signed a November 2010 agreement, as manager of 
              River Falls Financial and on behalf of AIR, in which AIR agreed that PSQ would 
              assume Pence’s $3 million promissory notes issued to AIR.   

       18.    Huff covertly exercised influence and control over GEE operations through Pence 
and Heineman as a result of his control over AIR, which financed PSQ’s investment in GEE.  Huff 
also sent substantial monthly payments to Pence ($25,000), Zizza ($20,000), and Heineman 
($15,000) from various Affiliated Entities in an attempt to ensure his control over, and ability to 
influence, GEE operations.   

       19.    Huff exerted control over GEE by, among other things, causing GEE to acquire 
several entities owned by WTS, which Huff and Associate-1 controlled.  For example, at an 
August 10, 2009, GEE board meeting, attended by Pence and Zizza (as Pence’s guest), Heineman 
convinced the GEE board of directors to authorize him to enter into a letter of intent with WTS to 
acquire its subsidiary On-Site, which was publicly announced on September 6, 2009.  In June 
2010, while Zizza was GEE’s CEO, GEE acquired On-Site, resulting in a financial benefit to Huff.  
In November 2010, GEE acquired additional assets of WTS doing business as Ameritemps, RFFG 
of Cleveland, LLC and DMCC Staffing, LLC, again resulting in a financial benefit to Huff.  
During 2010, Zizza had numerous discussions with Huff concerning these acquisitions. 

E.     HEINEMAN KNEW OR SHOULD HAVE KNOWN THAT THE PURPORTED 
       $2.3 MILLION CD ASSIGNMENT WAS FRAUDULENT 
                      
       20.    As part of the July 2009 closing of PSQ’s Purchase Agreement with GEE, GEE 
opened a checking account at PAB into which PSQ’s escrowed $1,925,000 would be deposited 
upon the closing.  In June 2009, Associate-1 coordinated with GEE’s chief financial officer (the 
“GEE CFO”) to have the GEE checking account opened at PAB and the authorized signatories on 
the account were the GEE CFO, Pence, and Associate-1.  The GEE CFO, Pence, and Associate-1 
remained the only authorized signatories on the account until September 2009, at which time 

                                              6  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

Associate-1 was removed and Heineman was added.  Following the closing, Heineman directed 
the GEE CFO to transfer an additional $750,000 from GEE’s accounts at other banks to the GEE 
PAB checking account.  The approximately $2.6 million deposited in the GEE PAB checking 
account constituted substantially all of GEE’s cash and half of its assets.  Heineman understood 
that GEE opened the bank account with PAB because of Huff’s business relationship with 
Antonucci, PAB’s president.  Heineman also knew or should have known that the Affiliated 
Entities primarily maintained their bank accounts at PAB and that Huff and the Affiliated Entities 
had other business dealings with Antonucci.     
        
       21.    In approximately July 2009, Huff discussed with Pence the possibility of GEE 
investing money in Park Avenue Insurance to achieve greater returns on GEE’s cash.  Pence told 
Heineman about Huff’s idea and involved Heineman in exploring the terms for GEE’s potential 
investment.  Heineman knew or should have known that Park Avenue Insurance was privately 
owned by Antonucci and that Pence had served as Park Avenue Insurance’s president during part 
of 2009.   

       22.    On July 14, 2009, Heineman received a draft promissory note from Huff’s attorney 
that proposed that GEE make a one-year loan to Park Avenue Insurance in the amount of $2.4 
million with four percent interest.  Heineman responded that the promissory note should be 
changed to $2.7 million.  No promissory note between GEE and Park Avenue Insurance appears to 
have been actually executed.   

       23.    However, in August 2009, the GEE CFO reviewed the July 2009 PAB monthly 
statement indicating that $2.3 million had been withdrawn from the GEE PAB operating account 
on July 23, 2009, without his knowledge.  When asked about the missing funds, Heineman claimed 
that he had authorized GEE to invest $2.3 million into a certificate of deposit account at PAB.  
Although the GEE CFO repeatedly requested that Heineman provide documentation concerning 
the purported CD, such as a written authorization, account agreement, and account statements—
and cited the lack of documentation as a control deficiency—Heineman only provided the GEE 
CFO with a one-page PDF of a typewritten “Certificate of Deposit Receipt” for $2.3 million with a 
single maturity date of October 21, 2009, and interest rate of two percent.   

       24.    GEE’s fiscal year ended on September 30, 2009.  On October 19, 2009, the GEE 
CFO provided to audit committee members and BDO a report of the evaluation of internal control 
for fiscal year 2009, which noted the purported PAB CD as an identified control deficiency.  The 
report noted that“[t]he transaction was not executed by the office of the Treasurer, and no written 
approval or account agreement was provided to the accounting department” and that “it did not 
conform to the company’s investment guidelines” because it did not provide sufficient 
diversification and PAB did not meet GEE’s size requirement.  However, the report concluded that 
the control deficiency did not constitute a material weakness.  BDO concurred with this 
assessment.  In response, Heineman did not provide any additional information or documentation 
to the GEE CFO.   

       25.    In early November 2009, the GEE CFO noticed that PAB had not remitted the 
proceeds of the purported CD of $2.3 million plus interest into GEE’s checking account upon the 
maturity date, October 21, 2009.  When the GEE CFO contacted PAB, a PAB representative stated 

                                               7  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

that the Bank had no record of the purported CD in its system.  The GEE CFO then pressed both 
Heineman and Pence for an explanation.  On November 9, 2009, Pence asked Heineman for 
information about the purported CD; Heineman responded that Huff would contact PAB on GEE’s 
behalf.   

       26.    According to the minutes of a November 23, 2009, audit committee meeting, 
attended by BDO, the GEE CFO reported his concerns that GEE had little documentation 
supporting the purported CD, including no written authorization from an account signatory and no 
deposit agreement.  According to the minutes, Heineman claimed that he authorized the purported 
CD at Pence’s direction, and claimed the lack of documentation was due to “the rapid pace of the 
transactions in which he had been involved, coupled with reorganization and personnel changes at 
Park Avenue Bank.”  Heineman next stated that he had anticipated that the CD would be 
maintained on a continuing renewal basis but he had asked Pence to liquidate the purported CD 
and have the funds transferred into the PAB checking account by the end of the week.  The 
minutes also state that the BDO engagement partner “said that the audit was substantially 
completed, pending resolution of the missing funds issue, receipt of legal letters from counsel, and 
the executed management representation letter” and that BDO “would be issuing an unqualified 
opinion on the consolidated financial statements.”    
        
       27.    On November 24, 2009, the BDO engagement partner emailed the GEE audit 
committee chairman (the “AC Chair”), stating that the GEE CFO had “indicated there was an 
update on the CD and that the funds would be returned in installments.  I am not sure if you can 
provide any further clarity on why this would be.  I wanted to check with you before I had another 
discussion with [Heineman].”  The AC Chair replied that he “[could] not provide any clarity” and 
expressed concern that one of the audit committee members (the “AC Member”) “seems to be tied 
in with this group.”  The AC Member had been appointed by Pence in connection with the PSQ 
transaction in July.   
        
       28.    The BDO engagement partner replied to the AC Chair the following day, 
November 25, 2009, that he had spoken to Heineman that morning and Heineman indicated that 
Pence and the AC Member “were taking the lead on this as they have a previous working 
relationship with the bank.”  BDO’s engagement partner also noted that Heineman, however, had 
“disagreed with the fact that the CD would be ‘paid back in installments’” and had “indicated that 
the proceeds of the CD would be in the Company’s bank account by Monday.”   
        
       29.    On November 24, 25, and 27, 2009, Huff directed and caused a total of $900,000 to 
be transferred to GEE’s bank accounts in installment payments of $300,000 on each such date 
from the bank accounts of two of the Affiliated Entities:  SDH and Oxygen.    
        
       30.    On November 30, 2009, GEE’s CFO asked Heineman if he knew anything 
concerning two $300,000 wire transfers that GEE had unexpectedly received from SDH and 
Oxygen.  Heineman claimed that he did not know why those transfers had occurred.  Heineman’s 
statement was materially misleading.   
        
       31.    Also on November 30, 2009, Pence, Zizza, and Heineman attended a GEE board of 
directors meeting.  Zizza, who had no formal role at GEE at this time, attended as an “invited 
                                               8  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

guest.”  The board minutes indicate that the AC Chair explained that the Company’s Form 10-K 
had not yet been filed because BDO’s “final” opinion was predicated on the satisfactory 
accounting for the PAB CD and an explanation for where GEE’s funds had been since the CD 
matured on October 21.  During this November 30, 2009, board meeting, the AC Member stated he 
believed that the situation occurred as a result of administrative errors on the part of the Bank, and 
Pence said that the AC Member had agreed to pursue the matter with PAB.  Neither Pence nor 
Heineman (or anyone else) mentioned anything about GEE selling or assigning the purported CD 
to a third party. 
        
       32.    On December 4, 2009, the BDO engagement partner on the GEE audit sent an 
email to the AC Chair, Heineman, and Pence, among others, summarizing the open items requiring 
resolution prior to the issuance of BDO’s audit report.  The email begins by noting that after the 
CD had matured in October 2009, when the GEE CFO had contacted the Bank, a PAB 
representative informed the GEE CFO that there was no record of the purported CD and that after 
some investigation by the AC Member, “in late November it was determined that the funds would 
be returned to GEE in installments.”  The email then notes that GEE had received the following 
wire transfers:  (i) November 24:  $300,000 wire transfer from SDH; (ii) November 25:  $300,000 
wire transfer from Oxygen; (iii) November 27:  $300,000 wire transfer from SDH; and (iv) 
December 1:  $100,000 wire transfer from Oxygen.  It then stated that the BDO engagement 
partner had discussed the matter with Heineman and Pence, who both referred him to the AC 
Member who was working directly with PAB on the matter, and that the AC Member left him a 
voicemail “indicating the bank continues to put money against the CD they owe [GEE] and it 
should be fully repaid by the close of business on Monday, Dec. 7” and that the Bank would 
provide a short apology note.   
                              
       33.    Shortly after receiving it, the AC Chair forwarded the December 4, 2009, email 
from the BDO engagement partner to Heineman, Pence, the AC Member, the GEE CFO, and 
GEE’s board, noting:  “Multiple representatives of BDO have told me that they will not sign off on 
the GEE Audit . . . until they have sufficient documentation of what has transpired.  [BDO’s] 
position is that the Liabilities associated with a sign-off far exceed any past or potential future 
Audit Fees that [they] have received or will receive.  The high level message is that a letter of 
apology from Park Avenue Bank will not be sufficient.”  The BDO engagement partner received a 
copy of this email and replied to all:  “To clarify, [our] primary concern is getting an understanding 
of exactly what has occurred in order to allow us to complete our audit procedures.  As I am sure 
everyone would agree, what has transpired over the last few weeks with the funds at [PAB] has 
been highly unusual.  I know everyone has been working to resolve the issue.  However, time 
continues to pass and [GEE’s] filing deadline will be here before we know it.  As such, I wanted to 
clarify the importance of appropriately addressing the issue as quickly as possible to allow us to 
complete the audit.” 

       34.    Later in the day on December 4, the AC Chair sent an email to the BDO 
engagement partner and concurring partner summarizing his call with the AC Member, stating that 
when he spoke with the AC Member “he told me that [PAB] had reported these transaction [sic] to 
the FDIC and that the money sent to the various entities that are now sending GEE the money are 
sending us the banks money rather than sending it back to the bank.”  The AC Chair continued:  
“This makes absolutely no sense.  It looks like [PAB] is on the verge of failing.  The FDIC and a 
                                                9  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

bankruptcy estate are going to require [PAB] to collect every cent they can under loans or other 
arrangements to settle with the creditors of the bank before they send money to third parties.”   
        
       35.    The following day, on December 5, 2009, the AC Chair emailed GEE’s board 
(including Pence) and Heineman calling for a special audit committee meeting on December 9 
because of “several unanswered questions related to $2.3 million of the Company’s cash which 
supposedly was invested in a Certificate of Deposit (‘CD’) at Park Avenue Bank which will need 
to be answered before BDO will complete their Audit Report for the Company’s fiscal year ended 
September 30, 2009.”  The AC Chair’s email noted several issues, including that (i) there was no 
account agreement with PAB or regular reporting on the CD; (ii) PAB did not remit the proceeds 
of the CD into GEE’s operating account when it reached its maturity date on October 21, 2009; 
(iii) PAB provided no explanation to the GEE CFO when he attempted to investigate; and (iv) the 
AC Member who took the lead on this matter with PAB “was informed on or about November 21, 
2009, that the funds would be returned to [GEE] in a series of deposits.”  The email also provided a 
chart of seven wire transfers totaling $1.7 million, which included the four noted in Henaghan’s 
December 4 email plus a December 2, 2009, wire transfer from Oxygen for $100,000, a December 
2, 2009, wire transfer from River Falls Financial of $300,000, and a December 3, 2009, wire 
transfer from River Falls Financial also for $300,000.  The address listed for both SDH and River 
Falls Financial on each of their wire transfers in the chart was 11921 Brinley Ave, Louisville, KY.     

       36.    On December 4 and December 9, 2009, GEE received two additional wire transfers 
from River Falls Financial for $300,000 each, bringing the total amount received by GEE from 
River Falls Financial to $1.2 million and the total of the nine wire transfers to $2.3 million, the 
same amount that Heineman had purported to invest in a CD.  Heineman knew or should have 
known that Huff, in conjunction with Associate-1, directed the transfers from SDH, Oxygen, and 
River Falls Financial to return the missing funds to GEE. 
        
       37.    On December 8, the AC Chair emailed the BDO engagement partner, providing 
some links he suggested the BDO engagement partner review before he had a conversation with 
the AC Member and any representatives of PAB, “particularly the Anthony Huff links” and 
explained that he “met Anthony Huff when we went to New York” to negotiate PSQ’s acquisition.  
The email included links to a press release announcing the Commission’s lawsuit against Huff, a 
link to Huff’s website noting the address 11921 Brinley Avenue, Louisville, KY in the text of the 
email, and a link to the website for Oxygen noting the identical address.  This is the same address 
that appeared in the wires sent to GEE by River Falls Financial and SDH, as noted in the AC 
Chair’s December 5 email described in paragraph 36, above.  Also, Huff’s website at the time 
contained references to River Falls Investments, SDH, Oxygen, and O2HR. 

       38.    Also on December 8, 2009, the day before the special audit committee meeting, the 
AC Chair received an email from Heineman to the audit committee with several attachments.  
Heineman’s email purported to offer a new explanation for why GEE had received $2.3 million 
from the three entities rather than PAB.  Heineman claimed that he had negotiated an assignment 
agreement with the manager of River Falls Investments (Associate-1), who “offered to purchase” 
the purported CD from GEE at face value.  Heineman also attached to his email an unsigned, draft 
assignment agreement and a letter from Heineman to PAB, dated July 21, 2009, that purportedly 
authorized the $2.3 million CD investment.  Heineman’s email also attached a July 2009 monthly 

                                               10   
---------------------Page 11---------------------

statement for GEE’s operating account at PAB, which included the description of the $2.3 million 
withdrawal as a debit on July 23 with a debit memo stating in handwriting:  “To:  Park Avenue 
Insurance, See Attachment Approval, $2,300,000.00.”  Park Avenue Insurance was a private 
insurance company separately owned by Antonucci that was not affiliated with PAB. 

       39.    The AC Chair responded to Heineman’s email that day, stating: “Given the chain of 
event[s] you described below, why was GEE not informed immediately when River Falls 
Investments purchased the CD and why are we just now learning that a law firm has been engaged 
to document the assignment of the CD?  We have been asking questions about the CD now for 
nearly a month.”   

       40.    The BDO engagement partner also exchanged emails with the AC Chair later that 
day, noting his agreement with the AC Chair’s questions to Heineman and that “the sale of the CD 
would constitute a related party transaction which typically should be approved by the board.”  The 
AC Chair replied to the BDO engagement partner that he had just spoken to Heineman and 
Heineman “claims that RFI (River Falls Investment) is 100% owned by [Associate-1] and is not 
related to River Falls Financial [] or any of the other entities.”  The BDO engagement partner 
replied, “That is consistent with what [] Pence told me in my conversation with him.  The common 
names are a little strange though.”  

       41.    Heineman’s aforementioned statements to BDO around December 2009 were 
materially misleading because, among other things, Heineman knew or should have known that:  

              a.  he did not negotiate an assignment agreement with Associate-1 (or anyone 
                  else); 

              b.  Huff controlled River Falls Investments, which was a related party; indeed, 
                  River Falls Investments had been making substantial monthly payments to 
                  Heineman since May 2008;  

              c.  Huff had directed the three Affiliated Entities to transfer funds to GEE in late 
                  November and early December to preserve the financial viability of GEE for 
                  the benefit of Huff and PSQ;  

              d.  his assignment agreement story had falsely explained why GEE had received 
                  those payments from the Affiliated Entities; 

              e.  Pence did not actually own or control River Falls Financial, Huff did; and 

              f.  Pence, Huff, Associate-1, and Heineman had an unwritten agreement to divide 
                  amongst themselves any financial windfalls associated with the market 
                  performance of GEE’s stock.  

       42.    Along with his December 8, 2009, email to the audit committee, Heineman 
attached a letter, dated July 21, 2009, signed by him and addressed to the president of PAB, 
stating:  “Please transfer $2,300,000 from the GEE checking account to a 90-day automatic 
renewal Certificate of Deposit.”  Heineman had drafted this July 2009 letter in late 2009 and 

                                               11   
---------------------Page 12---------------------

presented it to GEE’s audit committee to convince everyone that he had authorized the purchase of 
the purported CD in light of the increased scrutiny concerning GEE’s missing funds.   

       43.    According to the minutes of GEE’s audit committee meeting on December 9, 2009: 
        
             The BDO engagement partner expressed concern that BDO still did not have a clear 
              understanding of the purported CD transaction.   

             The BDO engagement partner said that BDO needed to understand the nature of the 
              purported administrative errors at PAB that he had been told were responsible for 
              the lack of proper documentation regarding the CD transaction.  He also explained 
              that BDO required documentation validating the banking transactions, and an 
              explanation as to why there was no existence of an account agreement with the 
              Bank or no record of the CD being at the bank. 

             Another BDO partner, BDO’s Midwest Regional Business Line Leader, said he 
              believed members of GEE’s senior management appeared hesitant to provide 
              information related to these transactions.   

             The BDO engagement partner stated that the assignment agreement did not resolve 
              the outstanding issues as BDO still needed to know what transpired within PAB 
              and make a determination of whether the assignment agreement with River Falls 
              Investments was a related party transaction. 

             BDO also advised that although the assignment agreement “may reduce or 
              eliminate the need for going concern disclosure, it would increase the requirement 
              that management provide sufficient disclosure regarding any related party 
              conflicts.”  

       44.    On December 14, 2009, GEE’s outside counsel sent PAB a formal letter requesting 
all documentation and information concerning the purported CD.  PAB’s December 16, 2009, 
response provided only documents relating to GEE’s checking account and did not provide any 
documents or other information about the purported CD.  The checking account documentation, 
however, indicated that only Associate-1, the GEE CFO, and Pence were authorized signers on 
GEE’s account from July to September 2009—not Heineman—and the checking account 
statements reflected a debit memo for the transfer of $2.3 million of GEE’s cash to Park Avenue 
Insurance on July 23, 2009.   

       45.    On December 22, 2009, BDO sent the AC Chair a letter stating that BDO did not 
have sufficient audit evidence to formally conclude the audit and demanded an independent 
investigation (“BDO’s demand letter”).  BDO’s demand letter identified multiple inconsistencies 
and problems in the audit evidence BDO had received regarding the purported CD, including that a 
number of significant questions remained unanswered concerning both the existence of the 
purported CD (e.g., why bank records provided by PAB showed a transfer of $2.3 million to Park 
Avenue Insurance) and the manner in which $2.3 million had been transferred to the Company by 
the Affiliated Entities (e.g., why Associate-1 would pay 100% of the face value of the purported 

                                              12   
---------------------Page 13---------------------

CD after the maturity date had expired without payment by PAB, why had River Falls Financial—
purportedly owned by Pence—transferred approximately $1 million to GEE in connection with the 
alleged assignment of the purported CD to River Falls Investments, and why Heineman had made 
inconsistent representations about his involvement in negotiating the alleged assignment with 
Associate-1).  Pence reviewed the letter and told Huff that he was very concerned.  Pence also 
forwarded BDO’s demand letter to Zizza and Associate-1, the purported manager of River Falls 
Investments.   

       46.    On the evening of December 22, 2009, BDO learned that the Audit Committee 
meeting that was scheduled for the following day had been cancelled, Zizza, an advisor to Pence 
who had attended GEE board meetings through the fall of 2009, would be taking over as CEO, and 
that Pence and Associate-1 intended to prepare written responses to each of the issues identified in 
the December 21 letter.  On December 23, 2009, Heineman formally resigned as GEE’s CEO and 
that same day Pence appointed Zizza, who had previously brought new business to BDO in the 
form of several auditing clients, to be GEE’s new CEO.   

F.     VIOLATIONS 

       47.    Rule 13b2-2 of the Exchange Act prohibits officers and directors from, directly or 
indirectly, making or causing to be made materially false or misleading statements or omissions to 
accountants in connection with an audit or preparation of reports to be filed with the Commission. 
        
       48.    As a result of the conduct described above, Heineman violated Rule 13b2-2 under 
the Exchange Act.  

                                               IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.      Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent cease and desist from 
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Exchange Act Rule 13b2-2.   
 
       B.      Respondent shall pay a civil penalty of $150,000 to the Commission for transfer to 
the general fund of the United States Treasury in accordance with Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  
Payment shall be made in the following installments:  (1) $40,000 within 10 days of the entry of 
this Order; (2) $40,000 within 120 days of the entry of this Order; (3) $40,000 within 240 days of 
the entry of this Order; and (4) $30,000 within 360 days of the entry of this Order.  If any payment 
is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire outstanding balance of 
civil penalties, plus any additional interest accrued pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717, shall be due and 
payable immediately, without further application.  Payment must be made in one of the following 
ways:   
 

                                               13   
---------------------Page 14---------------------

              (1)     Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                      will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
               
              (2)     Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
               
              (3)     Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
              Enterprise Services Center 
              Accounts Receivable Branch 
              HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
              6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
              Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Heineman as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy 
of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Timothy Casey, New York Regional 
Office, Securities and Exchange Commission, 200 Vesey Street, New York, NY 10281-1022.     
 
                                               V. 
                                                 
       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by 
Respondent, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other 
amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree 
or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by 
Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set 
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 

 
 
By the Commission. 
 
                                                    Brent J. Fields 
                                                    Secretary 
        

                                               14   
