---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                        before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 70074 / July 30, 2013 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3473 / July 30, 2013 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15395
                                          
                                         :       
                                         :       
       In the Matter of                  :      CORRECTED ORDER INSTITUTING  
                                         :      ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
       Subramanian Krishnan (CPA),    :         PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE           
                                         :      COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE,  
       Respondent.                       :      MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING  
                                         :      REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                         :       
____________________________________ :            
                                                 
                                            I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
Subramanian Krishnan ("Krishnan" or “Respondent”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice.1
                                 
 
                                            II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
              1.      Krishnan, age 58, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to 
practice in the State of Minnesota since 1983.  He served as Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice 
President of Digi International, Inc. (“Digi” or the “Company”), from February 1999 until his 
resignation in May 2010. 
        
              2.      Digi was, at all relevant times, a Delaware corporation headquartered in 
Minnesota.  At all relevant times, Digi manufactured device networking products for businesses.  At 
all relevant times, Digi’s common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 
12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and traded on the NASDAQ 
Global Select Market. 
                     
              3.      On September 28, 2012, the Commission filed a complaint against Krishnan 
in SEC v. Subramanian Krishnan (Civil Action No. 0:12-cv-02495-PAM-JJG) in the United States 
District Court for the District of Minnesota.  On October 17, 2012, the court entered an order 
permanently enjoining Krishnan, by consent, from future violations of Section 17(a) of the 
Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”); Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and 
Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1, 13b2-2, and 13a-14 thereunder, and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 
13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 
thereunder; and from acting as an officer or director of a public company for a period of time to be 
determined by stipulation or subsequent motion by the Commission.  On July 15, 2013, Krishnan 
was also ordered to pay a $60,000 civil money penalty and is prohibited from acting as an officer 
or director of a public company for a period of five years from the date of the Commission’s 
complaint. 
 
              4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged that Krishnan engaged in a course of 
 conduct which resulted in Digi filing inaccurate reports and accompanying certifications in 
 Digi’s annual reports on Form 10-K and Digi’s quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the period 
 from March 2005 through May 2010.  The complaint also alleged that Krishnan engaged in 
 certain actions and inactions: a result of which corporate funds were used to pay for 
 unauthorized expenses.  The complaint further alleged that Krishnan aided and abetted Digi’s 
 violations by making and keeping inaccurate books and records, failing to maintain a system of 
 adequate internal controls and making inaccurate representations to auditors. 
 
                                              IV. 
                                                 

                                               2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Krishnan’s  Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Krishnan is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
       B.      After five years (or 60 months) from the date of this order, Respondent may 
request that the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application 
(attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as: 
      
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                      (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective;  
 
                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
 
       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his stat e CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                    Secretary 
 

                                                4  
