---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                        Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 79753 / January 6, 2017 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3841 / January 6, 2017 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17759 
                                                                                      
In the Matter of                                                                            
                                                                                     
      CADBURY  LIMITED  and                                                    
      MONDELĒ                                                                               
                                                                        
      

             

                                                 
                                            I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Cadbury Limited f/k/a Cadbury plc (“Cadbury”) 
and Mondelēz International, Inc. (“Mondelēz”) as the acquirer of Cadbury’s stock (collectively 
“Respondents”). 
                                              
                                            II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings, Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making 
Findings and Imposing Cease-and-Desist Orders and a Civil Penalty (“Order”), as set forth below.    
                            
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               III. 
 
                                                                                  1
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds    that : 
 
                                            Summary 
 
       1.      Mondelēz, formerly known as Kraft Foods Inc., is a U.S.-based food, beverage, and 
snack manufacturer with securities registered with the Commission.  In February 2010, Mondelēz 
acquired Cadbury, a U.K.-based confectionary and snack beverage company that had securities 
registered with the Commission.  In early 2010, Cadbury India Limited (“Cadbury India”), a 
subsidiary of Cadbury, retained an agent (“Agent No. 1”) to interact with Indian government 
officials to obtain licenses and approvals for a chocolate factory in Baddi, Himachal Pradesh, India.  
Cadbury India’s failure to conduct appropriate due diligence on, and monitor the activities of, Agent 
No. 1 created the risk that funds paid to Agent No. 1 could be used for improper or unauthorized 
purposes.  In addition, Cadbury India’s books and records, which were consolidated into the books 
and records of Cadbury, did not accurately and fairly reflect the nature of the services rendered by 
Agent No. 1.  Cadbury did not devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting 
controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that access to assets and transactions were 
executed in accordance with management’s authorization and specifically to detect and prevent 
payments that may be used for improper or unauthorized purposes. 

       2.      As a result, Cadbury violated Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”).  As a result of Mondelēz’s subsequent acquisition of 
Cadbury’s stock, Mondelēz is also responsible for Cadbury’s violations. 

                                          Respondents 
 
       3.      Cadbury Limited f/k/a Cadbury plc (“Cadbury”), an English company 
headquartered in London, England, was a multi-national manufacturer and distributor of 
confectionaries and snack beverages.  Cadbury’s American Depositary Shares (“ADSs”) were 
registered with the Commission under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and traded on the New 
York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “CBY.”  After being acquired by Mondelēz, on 
February 2, 2010, Cadbury terminated the registration of its ADSs with the Commission, which 
became effective on September 6, 2010.  

       4.      Mondelēz International, Inc. (“Mondelēz”) is a Virginia company with its 
principal executive offices in Deerfield, Illinois.  During 2010, Mondelēz was known as Kraft 
Foods Inc. (“Kraft”).  Kraft was a global manufacturer and marketer of food, beverage and snack 
products.  Kraft’s common stock was registered with the Commission under Section 12(b) of the 
Exchange Act and it traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “KFT.” 

                                                 
       1
               The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  

                                                 2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       5.      On February 2, 2010, Kraft acquired Cadbury and its subsidiaries, including 
Cadbury India.  In October 2012, Kraft re-named itself Mondelēz International, Inc. and spun off its 
North American grocery business into a new company called Kraft Foods Group, Inc.  Mondelēz 
retained the global snacking business, including Cadbury India, which later became Mondelēz India 
Foods Private Ltd.  Mondelēz has common stock that is registered with the Commission under 
Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and that trades on the NASDAQ under the ticker symbol 
“MDLZ.” 

                            Other Relevant Entities and Individuals 

       6.      Mondelēz India Foods Private Limited f/k/a Cadbury India Limited (“Cadbury 
India”) is Mondelēz’s subsidiary in India.  It operates six manufacturing plants and four sales offices 
in India and its headquarters are in Mumbai. 

       7.      Agent No. 1 is a local business person and tile and marble vendor in Himachal 
Pradesh, India, whom Cadbury India retained as an agent to obtain licenses and approvals for a 
chocolate manufacturing facility in Baddi, India.  Agent No. 1 formed a sole proprietorship on 
January 1, 2010, located on the same premises as the tile and marble business.   On February 25, 
2010, Agent No. 1 opened a bank account for his new business at the State Bank of India.  

                                              Facts 
 
       8.      Cadbury India manufactures and sells chocolate products and other confectionaries 
in India.  It operates six manufacturing plants in India and is headquartered in Mumbai.  In 2005, 
Cadbury India built a major plant in Baddi, Himachal Pradesh, India.  Cadbury India obtained 
licenses and approvals from the state government in Himachal Pradesh that were necessary to 
operate its new factory.  Cadbury India’s employees at the Baddi plant drafted and submitted the 
applications for these licenses and approvals. 

       9.      In 2008, Cadbury India decided to increase production capacity in Baddi.  It called 
the additional facilities “Unit II.”        

       10.    Cadbury India estimated that it may require more than 30 different licenses and 
approvals for Unit II.  In or around November 2009, Cadbury India decided to obtain outside 
assistance in securing these various licenses and approvals.  In January 2010, Cadbury India 
employees met with Agent No. 1 to discuss potentially retaining Agent No. 1 to obtain the licenses 
and approvals.  As part of these discussions, Cadbury India employees at Baddi and Agent No. 1 
negotiated the prices of Agent No. 1’s services.  Agent No. 1 issued at least two quotations detailing 
the fees for each license and approval.  Shortly after this meeting, in late January 2010, Cadbury 
India employees at Baddi recommended the retention of Agent No. 1, which management approved 
without further due diligence.  Agent No. 1 began its work shortly thereafter and on February 23, 
2010, Cadbury India executed a letter of authorization authorizing Agent No. 1 to represent 
Cadbury India before government bodies. 

                                                3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       11.    From February 2010 to July 2010, Agent No. 1 submitted five invoices totaling 
$110,446 to Cadbury India for “providing consultation, arrange statutory/government prescribed 
formats of applications to be filed for the various statutory clearances, documentation, preparation 
of files and the submission of the same with govt. authorities” for specific licenses.  In contrast 
Cadbury India employees at Baddi, not Agent No. 1, prepared these license applications. Cadbury 
India paid Agent No. 1 a total of $90,666 after deducting withholding tax upon receipt of the 
invoices. After receiving each payment, Agent No. 1 withdrew from its bank account most or all of 
the funds in cash.  During this time period Cadbury India obtained some of the licenses and 
approvals for Unit II. This included a de-amalgamation approval to designate the property on which 
Unit II was built as legally distinct from that of the existing manufacturing facility. 

       12.    Besides the meetings described above, Cadbury India performed no further due 
diligence on Agent No. 1.  Other than the invoices from Agent No. 1, which contained a description 
of the specific licenses or approvals obtained as support for that invoice, Cadbury India did not 
receive documentary support for Agent No. 1’s services and did not have any written contract with 
Agent No. 1 when it paid Agent No. 1. 

       13.    Cadbury India’s books and records did not accurately and fairly reflect the nature of 
the services rendered by Agent No. 1.  Cadbury did not implement adequate FCPA compliance 
controls at its Cadbury India subsidiary, which created the risk that funds paid to Agent No. 1 could 
be used for improper or unauthorized purposes.   

       14.    On February 2, 2010, Mondelēz acquired Cadbury.  Because of the nature of the 
acquisition, Mondelēz was unable to conduct complete pre-acquisition due diligence, including anti-
corruption due diligence. 

       15.    Between April 2010 and December 2010, Mondelēz engaged in substantial, risk-
based, post-acquisition compliance-related due diligence reviews of Cadbury’s business, which 
involved reviews in 24 countries, including India.  This post-acquisition due diligence review did 
not identify the relationship between Agent No. 1 and Cadbury India. 

       16.    In October 2010, upon commencement of an internal investigation related to Agent 
No. 1, Mondelēz required Cadbury India to end the relationship with Agent No. 1 and no further 
payments were made. 

       17.    Mondelēz conducted an internal investigation, which included the retention of 
external counsel and forensic accountants and cooperated with the SEC’s investigation.  Mondelēz 
also undertook extensive remedial actions with respect to Cadbury, including implementing 
Mondelēz’s global compliance program at Cadbury and conducting a comprehensive review of the 
use of third parties in Cadbury India’s business. 

                                Legal Standards and Violations 

       18.    Under Section 21C(a) of the Exchange Act, the Commission may impose a cease-
and-desist order upon any person who is violating, has violated, or is about to violate any provision 
of the Exchange Act or any rule or regulation thereunder, and upon any other person that is, was, or 
                                                4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

would be the cause of the violation, due to an act or omission the person knew or should have 
known would contribute to such violation. 

       19.    Under Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, issuers are required to make and 
keep books, records and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and disposition of the assets of the issuer.  [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)]. 

       20.    Under Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, issuers are required to devise and 
maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that: 
(i) transactions are executed in accordance with management’s general or specific authorization; (ii) 
transactions are recorded as necessary (I) to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity 
with generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such statements, 
and (II) to maintain accountability for assets; (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance 
with management’s general or specific authorization; and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets 
is compared with existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect 
to any differences.  [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B)]. 

       21.    As described above, Cadbury India, a subsidiary of Cadbury, retained Agent No. 1 
to interact with Indian government officials to obtain licenses and approvals for Unit II in Baddi, 
India.  Cadbury India did not conduct appropriate due diligence on, and properly monitor the 
activities of, Agent No. 1, which created the risk that funds paid to Agent No. 1 could be used for 
improper or unauthorized purposes.  In addition, Cadbury India’s books and records did not 
accurately and fairly reflect the nature of the services rendered by Agent No. 1.  As a result of the 
conduct described above, Cadbury violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, by failing to 
keep accurate books, records and accounts, and Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, by failing 
to devise and maintain internal accounting controls that were sufficient to provide reasonable 
assurances that access to assets and transactions were executed in accordance with management’s 
authorization and specifically to detect and prevent payments that may be used for improper or 
unauthorized purposes.  As a result of Mondelēz’s acquisition of Cadbury stock, Mondelēz is also 
responsible for Cadbury’s violations. 

                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.      Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondents Mondelēz and Cadbury 
               cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations 
               of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. 
 
       B.      Respondent Mondelēz shall, within 14 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil 
               penalty in the amount of $13 million to the Securities and Exchange Commission 
               for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange 

                                                 5 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

              Act Section 21F(g)(3).  If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall 
              accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717.  Payment must be made in one of the 
              following ways:  
        
              (1)     Respondent Mondelēz may transmit payment electronically to the 
                      Commission, which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire 
                      instructions upon request;  

              (2)     Respondent Mondelēz may make direct payment from a bank account via 
                      Pay.gov through the SEC website at 
                      http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  

              (3)     Respondent Mondelēz may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or 
                      United States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and 
                      Exchange Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  

                      Enterprise Services Center 
                      Accounts Receivable Branch 
                      HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                      6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                      Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Cadbury and Mondelēz as Respondents in these proceedings, and the file number of these 
proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Brian O. Quinn, 
Assistant Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities & Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE, 
Washington, DC 20549-5010. 
                   
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                   Brent J. Fields 
                                                   Secretary 
 

                                               6 
 
