---------------------Page 1---------------------

                               UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                            Before the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 76611 / December 10, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3725 / December 10, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16997 
  
                                                    
In the Matter of                                   ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC             
                                                   ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS                
       JOSEPH E. MOHR, CPA                         PURSUANT TO SECTION 4C OF THE 
                                                   SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
                                                   AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
Respondent.                                       COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                                   
                                                                                
                                             
 
                                                I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Joseph E. Mohr (“Respondent” or 
                                1
“Mohr”) pursuant to Section 4C  of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and 
                                                          2
Rules 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  
 
                                                 
1
       Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
               The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the 
               privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . 
               (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character 
               or integrity, or to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have 
               willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the securities 
               laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
        
2
       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
               The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
               practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper 
               professional conduct. 
        
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondent consents 
to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 4C of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                               III. 
 
                                                                                3
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that:  
 
A.     SUMMARY 

       From 2009 to 2012, Joseph Mohr performed engagement quality reviews in Florida for 
 audits and interim reviews of public companies conducted by Messineo & Co., CPAs, LLC 
 (“Messineo & Co.”).  At the time Mohr performed this work, he was not a licensed or registered 
 Certified Public Accountant (“CPA”) in Florida or in any state because he failed to renew his 
 Illinois registration in 2009.  Despite his lack of credentials, Mohr advertised himself as a 
 “CPA” and used the abbreviation in his title and on his professional papers.  Without a CPA 
 license or registration, Mohr used the abbreviation “CPA” in violation of Florida law. 
    
       In 2012, Messineo & Co. issued audit reports and granted permission for its respective 
 clients to use them without having received concurring approval from Mohr.  To hide its 
 transgressions of professional standards, Messineo & Co. asked Mohr to backdate the records of 
 his reviews so that the records displayed dates prior to its issuance of the associated reports.  Mohr 
 agreed.  For multiple issuers, Mohr backdated the records of his reviews.   
    
       By holding himself out as a Certified Public Accountant when he was not and by backdating 
 documents to conceal violations of professional standards, Mohr engaged in improper 
 professional conduct.    
    
B.     RESPONDENT 

       Joseph E. Mohr, age 49, resides in Spring Hill, Florida and is currently a visiting 
 assistant professor at a Florida university.  In 1988, Mohr passed the Illinois CPA exam.  He did 
 not, however, pursue a CPA license.  Later, in 2007, he became a “registered” CPA in Illinois.  
 Mohr’s registration expired on September 30, 2009.  From 2009 to 2012, Mohr performed 

                                                 
3
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any 
       other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 engagement quality reviews (“EQRs”) for Messineo & Co.  At the time, Mohr lived and worked 
 in Florida, but was not licensed as a Certified Public Accountant (“CPA”) in Florida or in any 
 other state.  In addition, Mohr has been a self-employed consultant specializing in the areas of 
 business and finance and has served as Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) or acting or interim 
 CFO for ten or more companies.  Most recently in 2014, Mohr served as acting CFO for a 
 Florida metal-working company and from 2010 to 2013 served as CFO for a Florida-
 headquartered oil and gas firm.     
    
C.     OTHER RELEVANT PARTIES 

       Messineo & Co., CPAs, LLC (“Messineo & Co.”) is registered with the Public 
 Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) as a public accounting firm based in 
 Clearwater, Florida.  The limited liability company operated as a sole proprietorship under the 
 name Peter Messineo, CPA from 2009 until December 17, 2012, when it effectively merged 
 with Drake & Klein, CPAs PA to form DKM Certified Public Accountants, Inc. (“DKM”).  
 Peter Messineo separated from DKM in April 2013 and began operating Messineo & Co. again, 
 but under its present name and form.  During 2012, it performed audit services for over 70 
 clients, but only had one partner -- sole owner Peter Messineo -- authorized to sign or issue 
 audit reports.  From 2009 - 2012, Messineo & Co. paid Mohr to perform EQRs for its public 
 company audit clients.   
        
D.     MOHR FALSELY REPRESENTED HIMSELF AS A CERTIFIED PUBLIC 
       ACCOUNTANT  

   1.     In 1988, Mohr passed the Illinois CPA exam.  Mohr, however, did not pursue a CPA 
          license.  Later, on April 5, 2007, he became a “registered” CPA under Illinois law.  
          Mohr failed to renew his registration and it expired on September 30, 2009.  Mohr 
          never received his CPA license in Illinois, which would have permitted him to sign 
          audits and reviews.  
               
   2.     Mohr has never held a CPA license or registration from any other jurisdiction.  Mohr 
          has not taken any continuing education courses for accounting within the last 10 years. 
               
   3.     After his CPA registration expired in 2009, Mohr continued to use the abbreviation 
          “CPA” after his name and as part of his title in correspondence, invoices, and in 
          connection with his work as an independent contractor.  Mohr used the moniker 
          “Joseph E. Mohr, CPA, MBA, Finance” to describe himself and his credentials.     
           
   4.     When performing EQRs for Messineo & Co. from October 2009 through December 
          2012, Mohr continued to advertise himself as a CPA.   

E.     BACKDATING DOCUMENTS 

   5.     In 2012, Mohr performed EQRs for Messineo & Co. for its audits and interim reviews.  
          To document Mohr’s EQRs in compliance with auditing standards, Messineo & Co. 

                                              3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

           used a “Concurring Review Questionnaire,” otherwise known as a “Form 4.2,” in 
           connection with each audit.  See PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 7 (“AS 7”).     
            
   6.     After completing an EQR, Mohr was supposed to answer the questions on the 
           Concurring Review Questionnaire and then sign and date the Questionnaire.  The date 
           on the form was to indicate when Mohr provided concurring approval of the issuance 
           of the audit report.  See AS 7.   
            
   7.     Mohr then emailed the signed forms to Messineo & Co. where the executed Concurring 
           Review Questionnaires were included within the firm’s audit files.  See PCAOB 
           Auditing Standard No. 3 (“AS 3”) & AS 7. 
            
   8.     In August 2012, Messineo & Co. began to conduct a review of its audit files to identify 
           any deficiencies and identified different engagements for which either:   

              i.      it was missing a Concurring Review Questionnaire signed by Mohr; or 
            

              ii.     the signed Concurring Review Questionnaire was dated after the audit 
                      report had been issued by Messineo & Co., indicating that Messineo & Co. 
                      had issued the audit report prior to Mohr’s completion of his EQR. 
            
   9.     As a result, Messineo & Co. personnel requested Mohr backdate his signature on 
           Concurring Review Questionnaires for public company audit clients.  Mohr complied.  
           He knowingly misrepresented the dates that he completed the respective EQRs for at 
           least three issuers. 
            
   10.    Messineo & Co. personnel then inserted the backdated forms into its audit files, 
           including into files which were putatively “locked-down” because the audit report had 
           been issued more than 45 days previously.  See PCAOB AS 3.  

F.     MOHR’S USE OF THE ABBREVIATION “CPA” FROM OCTOBER 2009 
       THROUGH 2012 VIOLATED FLORIDA STATE LAW BECAUSE HE LACKED A 
       LICENSE AS A CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT. 

   11.    Florida statute Section 473.322 (Prohibitions; Penalties) makes it a criminal violation 
           for a person to knowingly assume or use:  
            
              the titles or designations “certified public accountant” or “public 
              accountant” or the abbreviation “C.P.A.” or any other title, designation, 
              words, letters, abbreviations, sign, card, or device tending to indicate that 
              the person holds a license to practice public accounting under this chapter or 
              the laws of any other state, territory, or foreign jurisdiction, unless the 
              person holds an active license under this chapter or has the practice 
              privileges pursuant to s. 473.3141; 
              

                                               4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

   12.    As discussed above, Mohr fraudulently continued to use the abbreviation “CPA” in 
          connection with his concurring reviews and his contracting work for several years after 
          his registration from Illinois terminated on September 30, 2009.   
           
   13.    Accordingly, Mohr engaged in improper professional conduct.   

G.     MOHR’S BACKDATING OF DOCUMENTS VIOLATES PCAOB STANDARDS. 

   14.    PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 7 (Engagement Quality Review) enumerates the 
          standards for an EQR or concurring review.  AS 7 requires an EQR to be performed for 
          every audit and interim review.  See PCAOB AS 7.1. 
           
   15.    For both audits and interim reviews, AS 7 prohibits the firm from granting permission 
          to the client to use the engagement report until the engagement quality reviewer 
          provides concurring approval of issuance.  See PCAOB AS 7.13 & AS 7.18. 
           
   16.    AS 7 requires that “an engagement quality reviewer must have competence, 
          independence, integrity, and objectivity.”  See PCAOB AS 7.14. 
           
   17.    AS 7 requires that documentation of an EQR should “contain sufficient information to 
          enable an experienced auditor, having no previous connection with the engagement, to 
          understand the procedures performed by the engagement quality reviewer…to comply 
          with the provisions of this standard, including information that identifies: 
           

                                       *       *      * 
                    c. The date the engagement quality reviewer provided concurring approval of 
                     issuance or, if no concurring approval of issuance was provided, the reasons 
                     for not providing the approval.” 

          See PCAOB AS 7.19. 
           
   18.    AS 7 also states that “[d]ocumentation of an engagement quality review should be 
          included in the engagement documentation” and that “[t]he requirements related to 
          retention of and subsequent changes to audit documentation in PCAOB Auditing 
          Standard No. 3, Audit Documentation, apply with respect to the documentation of the 
          engagement quality review.”  See PCAOB AS 7.20 & AS 7.21. 
           
   19.    PCAOB AU 230 (Due Professional Care in the Performance of Work) “requires the 
          independent auditor to plan and perform his or her work with due professional care. 
          Due professional care imposes a responsibility upon each professional within an 
          independent auditor's organization to observe the standards of field work and 
          reporting.”  See PCAOB AU 230.02. 
           
   20.    Mohr violated AS 7 and AU 230 when he performed EQRs after the respective audit 
          report was issued and backdated his signature on the Concurring Review 

                                               5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

           Questionnaires (Form 4.2s) -- at Messineo & Co.’s request -- to a date before the 
           issuance of the audit report.   

H.     VIOLATIONS 

   21.    As a result of the conduct described above, Mohr engaged in improper professional 
           conduct as defined in Rule 102(e)(1)(iv) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, in that 
           Mohr violated applicable professional standards or committed repeated instances of 
           unreasonable negligent conduct each resulting in a violation of applicable professional 
           standards that indicate a lack of competence to practice before the Commission. 

I.      FINDINGS 

   22.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Mohr engaged in improper 
           professional conduct pursuant to Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 
           102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 

                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Mohr’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
           A.  Mohr is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
               an accountant.  After 4 years from the date of this order, Mohr may request that the 
               Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: 
               Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the 
               Commission as an accountant.  

       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Brent J. Fields 
                                                    Secretary 

                                                6 
