---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                        

                                                                                               

                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                          Before the  
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 74234 / February 9, 2015 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3634 / February 9, 2015 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-13127 

                           
                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Jeffrey P. Jorissen, CPA  
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                           
        

       On August 12, 2008, Jeffrey P. Jorissen, CPA (“Jorissen”) was suspended from appearing 
or practicing before the Commission as an accountant as a result of settled public administrative 
proceedings instituted by the Commission against Jorissen pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the 
                               1
Commission's Rules of Practice.    This order is issued in response to Jorissen’s application for 
reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant responsible for the 
preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed with the Commission. 

       The Commission found that Jorissen had been permanently enjoined by a United States 
District Court from future violations of Rule 13b2-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Exchange Act”) and from aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) and 
(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder.  In a complaint filed 
on February, 22, 2006 the Commission alleged, among other things, that from the first quarter of 
2000 through the third quarter of 2002, Sun Communities, Inc. (“Sun”) engaged in false financial 
record-keeping and reporting. The complaint alleged that Sun's financial statements failed to properly 
account for losses resulting from Sun's investment in a joint venture involved in the development of 
manufactured housing communities. The Commission alleged that contrary to generally accepted 
accounting principles, Sun failed to account for any of the joint venture's losses during seven quarters 
and underreported Sun's share of the losses in four additional quarters. The complaint also alleged 
that Sun maintained an improper "cookie jar reserve" and improperly smoothed earnings, and that 
Sun's false financial statements were incorporated in documents filed with the SEC, including 

                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2862 dated August 12, 2008.  Jorissen was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after two years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                     

quarterly reports, annual reports, and non-periodic filings. The complaint alleged that Jorissen, in his 
position as Chief Financial Officer, initiated and directed Sun's false record-keeping and reporting.  
 
       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Jorissen 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Jorissen is not, at this time, seeking to appear 
or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume 
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be 
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Jorissen’s 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
                                                           2
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”   This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Jorissen, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the August 12, 2008 order 
suspending him from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 
and that Jorissen, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee 
of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in 
his practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to 
be filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is 
accordingly, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
 

                                                 2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                                 

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Jeffrey P. Jorissen, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                             
                                             
                                            Brent J. Fields  
                                            Secretary  

                                               3 
