---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                              before the 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 70602 / October 2, 2013 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3505 / October 2, 2013 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15550
                                                 
                                                :        
                                                :        
                                                :         
        In the Matter of                        :       ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                :       PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
                Jing Xie,                       :       102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                :       PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                Respondent.                     :       IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                :        
                                                :        
____________________________________ :                    
                                                         
                                                   I. 
 
        The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Jing Xie 
                                                                                                   1
(“Respondent” or “Xie”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.    
                                                     
                                                  II. 
 
        In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 

                                                 
1
  Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
        The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without pr      eliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brough   t by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over himself and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3. below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
        
               1.     Xie, age 32, represents that he is and has been a member of the Association 
of Credited Chartered Accountants.  He served as Chief Financial Officer of Universal Travel 
Group (“UTG”) from February 13, 2009 to August 17, 2009, as interim Chief Financial Officer of 
UTG from August 17, 2010 to February 9, 2013, and as director and Secretary of UTG from 
December 29, 2006 to February 9, 2013.   
        
               2.     UTG was, at all relevant times, a Nevada corporation with its headquarters in 
Shenzhen, People’s Republic of China (“PRC”).  UTG claimed to be engaged in the business of 
selling travel services.  At all relevant times, UTG’s common stock was registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) or Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Exchange Act”).  On October 27, 2009, UTG common stock was listed and traded on the New 
York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”).  Previous to that, on May 29, 2009, UTG common stock was 
listed and traded on the NYSE AMEX.  Previous to that, UTG common stock was traded on the 
Over The Counter Bulletin Board.  On April 26, 2012, UTG voluntarily delisted its stock from the 
NYSE.   
 
               3.     On September 30, 2013, a final judgment was entered against Xie by 
consent, permanently enjoining him from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 
1933 and Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 13a-14 and 13b2-1 
thereunder, and from aiding and abetting future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder, in the civil 
action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Universal Travel Group et al., Civil Action 
Number 13 CV-1492, in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia.  Xie was 
also ordered to pay a $60,000 civil money penalty and was barred for five years from serving as an 
officer or director of a company with securities registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 
12 of the Exchange Act. 
 
               4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Xie violated 
the antifraud provisions of the securities laws by making materially false and misleading 
statements and omissions concerning, inter alia, UTG’s risky transfer of $41 million in U.S. stock 
offering proceeds to numerous unaffiliated third parties in Hong Kong and the PRC, UTG’s 
intended use of public offering proceeds, UTG’s risky uses of cash and cash controls, UTG’s 
corporate organization, and UTG’s revenues and profits during the first three quarters of 2010.  
The Complaint alleged that Xie aided and abetted UTG’s reporting violations, UTG’s failure to 
devise and implement proper internal accounting controls, and UTG’s failure to create proper 

                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

records of cash transactions.  In addition, the complaint alleged that Xie knowingly failed to 
implement a system of internal accounting controls, signed a false certification as to UTG’s 
internal controls over financial reporting, and caused to be falsified certain UTG records.  
  
                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Xies’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Xie is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.  
 
       B.      After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                      (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

      
       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his status as an accountant is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state or national 
boards of accountancy.  However, if  licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                    Secretary 
 

                                                4  
