---------------------Page 1---------------------

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17562 
 
SEC Charges Former CFO       For Role in Independence-Impairing Relationship with Auditor 
 
September 21, 2016 – The Securities and Exchange Commission today announced that Robert 
A. Waegelein, the former chief financial officer of a New York-based public issuer (Issuer), has 
agreed to settle charges stemming from a close personal friendship he formed with an audit 
partner of the public accounting firm retained to perform an objective and impartial review of the 
Issuer’s financial statements, thus compromising the independence of both the audit partner and 
the firm.   
 
According to the SEC’s order instituting a settled cease-and-desist proceeding against him, 
Waegelein began developing a close personal friendship with the audit partner, who was then the 
head of the Issuer’s audit engagement team, in 2012.  Over the next three audit and professional 
engagement periods, Waegelein, often accompanied by his son or other members of his family, 
took multiple overnight, out-town-trips with the audit partner that had no valid business 
purpose.  Waegelein and the audit partner also stayed overnight at each other’s homes on 
multiple occasions, and frequently exchanged personal emails, texts, and phone calls.  Although 
this close personal relationship impaired the independence of the audit partner and the audit firm, 
Waegelein continued to certify the Issuer’s financial statements and represented in letters to the 
audit firm that he was not aware of any reason why the audit firm might not be considered 
independent.  
 
The SEC’s order finds that, as a result of this conduct, Waegelein caused the Issuer to violate 
Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 13a-1 thereunder.  Without 
admitting or denying these findings, Waegelein agreed to a cease-and-desist order and to pay a 
civil penalty of $25,000.   
 
The SEC’s investigation was conducted by John O. Enright, Vanessa De Simone, Lisa Knoop 
and Thomas P. Smith, Jr., and was supervised by Sanjay Wadhwa, all of the SEC’s New York 
office. 
 
See also:      Order 
