---------------------Page 1---------------------

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17379 
 
SEC Charges Key Energy Services, Inc. with FCPA Violations 
 
August 11, 2016 – The Securities and Exchange Commission today announced that Houston-
based Key Energy Services, Inc. has agreed to pay $5 million in disgorgement to settle charges 
that it violated the internal controls and books-and-records provisions of the Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act (FCPA).  The violations arose from payments its  Mexican subsidiary, Key Mexico, 
made to a contract employee at Petróleos Mexicanos (Pemex) , Mexico’s state-owned oil 
company. 
 
An SEC investigation found that Key Mexico   made payments to the Pemex employee to induce 
him to provide advice, assistance and inside information that was used by Key Energy and Key 
Mexico in negotiating contracts with Pemex.  Key Mexico paid the Pemex employee through an 
entity that provided purported consulting services to Key Mexico, even though Key Energy had 
not authorized the relationship with the consulting firm and lacked supporting documentation 
regarding the purported consulting work performed.  The hiring of the consulting firm was 
arranged and approved by Key Mexico’s then-country manager, who did not disclose to K  ey 
Energy the connection between the consulting firm and the Pemex employee  .  Key Mexico 
improperly recorded the transfers to the consulting firm as legitimate business expenses in Key 
Mexico’s books and records, which were consolidated into Key Energy’s books and records.   
 
The SEC investigation also found that Key Energy personnel eventually became aware  , at least 
as early as 2011, that Key Mexico was doing business with the c onsulting firm.  Nevertheless, 
Key Mexico  ’s relationship with the consulting firm continued, even though, contrary to Key 
Energy policy, neither Key Energy nor Key Mexico had conduct  ed due diligence on the 
consulting firm and Key Mexico did not enter into a written agreement or contract with the 
consulting firm until 2013.  Key Energy ultimately uncovered the c onsulting firm’s relationship 
to the Pemex employee in 2014, when Key Energy began an investigation into other allegations 
concerning the country manager.  From 2010 through at least 2013, Key Mexico paid the 
consulting firm at least $229,000 for the purported consulting services. 
 
The SEC’s order finds that Key Energy violated Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and (B) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934.  Without admitting or denying the findings, Key Energy agreed to a 
cease-and-desist order and to pay $5 million in disgorgement.  In determining to accept the offer, 
the SEC considered cooperation Key Energy afforded to the SEC  staff and the remedial acts 
undertaken by Key Energy.  In addition, in determining the disgorgement amount and not to 
impose a penalty, the SEC considered Key Energy’s current financial condition and its ability to 
maintain necessary cash reserves to fund its operations and meet its liabilities.   
 
The SEC’s investigation was  conducted by Akita Adkins  and Laura Bennett  of the SEC’s FCPA 
Unit and Fort Worth Regional Office, and supervised by Kara N. Brockmeyer   and Jonathan P. 
Scott.  The SEC appreciates the assistance of the Fraud Section of the U.S. Department of 
Justice’s Criminal Division, the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Texas and the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
See also:     SEC Order  
