---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                      Before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 74240 / February 10, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3636 / February 10, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16381 
 
                                             ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
In the Matter of                            DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
                                            SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
      WILLIAM SLATER, CPA       and         EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING 
      PETER E. WILLIAMS, III                FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE-
                                            AND-DESIST ORDER 
Respondents.                                  
 
 
                                               
                                          I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against William Slater and Peter E. Williams, III 
(“Respondents”). 
                                            
                                          II. 
       
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, the Respondents have submitted 
Offers of Settlement (the “Offers”) that the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over each and over the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making 
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 

 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds  1
                                                                                   that:  
 
                                            Summary 
 
       1.      This matter involves misstated revenues in the professional services organization at 
Saba Software, Inc. (“Saba” or “the Company”), a Silicon Valley-based enterprise software 
company.  The misstatements were the result of the falsification of time records over a period of 
more than four years by professional services managers in multiple geographies directing 
consultants in Saba’s Indian subsidiary (the India Consulting Group or “ICG”) to falsify time 
records by either recording time in advance of performance of work  or failing to record time for 
hours worked in order to achieve their quarterly revenue and margin targets.   
 
       2.      As a result, Saba reported materially false financial results in its financial 
statements filed with the Commission over the period from October 4, 2007 through January 6, 
2012.  As Saba announced on August 6, 2012 and November 5, 2012, management has determined 
that the Company is required to restate its financial statements for fiscal years 2008 through 2011, 
as well as the first two quarters of fiscal 2012, as a result of misconduct.  The Company expects 
that the restatement will change the time period during which the affected revenues are recognized, 
generally shifting the timing of such revenues to later periods.  
 
       3.      Saba’s former Chief Financial Officers, William Slater and Peter E. Williams, III, 
realized Saba stock-sale profits and received bonuses during the 12-month periods following the 
filings containing financial results that Saba is required to restate.  The Commission does not allege 
that Slater and Williams participated in the misconduct giving rise to the restatement.  Slater and 
Williams have not, however, reimbursed Saba for   stock-sale profits and bonuses they are required 
to reimburse the Company under Section 304(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.   
 
                                          Respondents 
                                                  
       4.      William Slater, age 63, is a resident of San Diego, California.  He served as Chief 
Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer of Saba from December 9, 2008 through 
October 27, 2011.  He served as Chief Financial Officer, Vice President and Treasurer of another 
public company from November 10, 2011 to February 15, 2013.  Slater was licensed as a certified 
public accountant in New York from 1978 to 2003, when    his license became inactive.   
 
       5.      Peter E. Williams III, age 53,   is a resident of Hillsborough, California.  Prior to 
joining Saba as General Counsel in October 1999, Williams was a partner at an international law 
                                                 
       1
         The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offer of Settlement and are not binding 
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   

        

 
                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

firm.  Williams has been Saba’s Secretary from the time of the Company’s inception in April 1997.  
Williams served as Saba’s Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer from March 
2004 to July 2007 and then again, on an interim basis, from October 27, 2011 until January 7, 
2012.  Since July 2007, Williams has also served as Executive Vice President, Corporate 
Development.  Williams has been licensed to practice law in California since 1987.  He has never 
been licensed as a certified public accountant. 
 
       6.     Saba Software, Inc. (“Saba” or “the Company”) is a Delaware corporation 
headquartered in Redwood Shores, California.  The software company provides cloud-based 
enterprise learning, talent management and social networking tools to businesses and large 
organizations.  At all relevant times, Saba’s common stock has been registered pursuant to Section 
12 of the Exchange Act.  From its IPO in April 2000 until July 31, 2006, its common stock was 
registered pursuant to Section 12(g).  Thereafter, until June 2013, it was registered pursuant to 
Section 12(b).  It traded on the Nasdaq Global Market until it was suspended on April 9, 2013, and 
then it was delisted effective June 17, 2013 for failure to remain compliant with its SEC reporting 
obligations.  Upon its delisting and deregistration from Section 12(b), it reverted to its previous 
Section 12(g) registration.  Its common stock is currently registered pursuant to Section 12(g) and 
traded on the OTC Markets.   Saba has not filed any periodic reports since January 6, 2012, when it 
filed its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended November 30, 2011.   
 
                                             Facts 
 
A.     Saba’s Falsification of Time Records 
        
       7.     Saba’s professional services historically have accounted for about one third of its 
approximately $120 million in yearly revenues.  Professional services have been delivered to 
customers worldwide by (1) customer-facing field consultants in North America and Europe 
(“Field Consultants”) and (2) off-shore technical development services provided to the Field 
Consultants by the Company’s India Consulting Group (“ICG Consultants”).  ICG is an 
organization within Saba’s Indian subsidiary designed to help the Company deliver professional 
services to its customers at a lower cost than comparable consultants in North America and 
Europe.  By 2011, ICG employed 50-60 consultants who generated approximately 14,000 hours of 
billable work per quarter, which constituted about 17% of consulting revenue and 6% of total 
revenue per quarter.   
 
       8.     Both Field Consultants and ICG Consultants were required to record time worked 
on customer projects in a timesheet database.  Hours input into the system by Field or ICG 
Consultants were approved on a weekly basis by project managers in North America and Europe, 
and revenue for the professional services organization was then measured based on the approved 
number of hours in the timesheet database.   
 
       9.     Saba disclosed in its public filings that it recognized revenue for both “time and 
materials” and “fixed fee” contracts as the services were performed.  This revenue recognition 
treatment was consistent with GAAP only if Saba could demonstrate that (1) its customers have 
historically paid a consistent rate for its services (measured by Vendor Specific Objective Evidence 

                                               3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

or “VSOE”) and (2) it could accurately estimate how many hours it took to complete projects 
(“ability to estimate”).  Therefore, Saba’s finance personnel depended on accurate time records to 
ensure that Saba recognized revenue in accordance with GAAP. 
 
       10.    From at least 2008 through the second quarter of Saba’s fiscal 2012, Saba 
professional services employees and managers engaged in two time-keeping practices that led to its 
false revenue recognition.  First, there were multiple incidents of ICG Consultants recording hours 
and billing customers for the performance of professional services in advance of performing those 
services in order to accelerate revenue recognition and achieve quarterly revenue targets (“pre-
booking”).  Second, ICG and Field Consultants regularly failed to report professional services time 
worked in order to conceal budget overruns from management and finance, instead recording that 
time to non-billable project codes or not at all (“under-booking”).   
 
       11.    These improper time-keeping practices precluded the time records from serving as 
reliable evidence under GAAP to recognize revenue in the manner that Saba did.  As such, Saba 
management has concluded that Saba cannot demonstrate VSOE for the period from 2008 through 
the second quarter of fiscal 2012.  Over that period, therefore, Saba was required to recognize 
professional services revenues on a completed contract basis, which would have required it to defer 
substantially all of its professional services revenue and much of its license revenue (where 
software licenses were bundled with professional services) until the contract was completed.  
Accordingly, virtually all of Saba’s professional services revenue was misstated over the relevant 
time period because revenue was recognized earlier than it should have been under the applicable 
accounting principles. 
 
       12.    The practices of pre-booking and under-booking were directed by and known to 
numerous individuals in the professional services organization and ICG, including the two most 
senior Saba employees overseeing the professional services organization in North America over 
the relevant time period.  Those senior Saba employees were told on multiple occasions by the 
finance department that the Company’s accountants and auditors needed to understand exactly how 
many hours were being worked and when (regardless of whether or not they were billed to the 
customer) in order to ensure that revenue was recognized accurately, and they understood that 
inaccurate time-keeping would lead to misstatements in Saba’s reported professional services 
revenue and violate the Company’s policies regarding financial reporting, including the Code of 
Business Conduct and the Revenue Recognition Policy.   
  
B.     Scope and Impact of the Fraud  
 
       13.    Saba’s professional services revenues, gross margins and income were materially 
overstated in its periodic filings from October 4, 2007 through January 6, 2012 as a result of the 
time-reporting misconduct.   
 
       14.    The practices of pre-booking and under-booking, and the fundamental inaccuracy 
in Saba’s time records revealed by these practices, have led Saba management to conclude that it 
can no longer rely on its calculation of VSOE of fair value for professional services.  In this 
circumstance, ASC 985-605 (Certain Revenue Arrangements That Include Software Elements) and 

                                               4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

ASC 605-35 (Revenue Recognition) require that the Company defer to the point where services are 
complete, rather than recognize over the period where services are performed, standalone services 
revenue and revenue on software license and cloud services agreements that contain bundled 
professional services.  Accordingly, Saba has determined and announced that it is required to 
restate its financial statements for the years 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, and the first two quarters 
of 2012, due to its material non-compliance with GAAP.  Although Saba has not yet filed its 
required restatement, the cumulative impact of this alternative revenue recognition treatment is 
approximately $70 million over the period from 2008 through the second fiscal quarter of 2012.   
The Company expects that the restatement will change the time period during which the affected 
revenues are recognized, generally shifting the timing of such revenues to later periods. 
        
       15.    These misstatements are material.  First, based on the Company’s own estimates, 
the restated financials will reflect overstatements of gross revenue and profit of more than 5% in 
each year for the period 2008 through 2011.  Second, the effect of the inflated revenue was that 
Saba met analyst expectations for EPS in certain quarters and caused at least one year (2010) to 
reflect net income when, but for the inflated revenue, the Company should have reported a net loss.   
 
C.     Saba’s Required Restatement 
 
       16.    On August 6, 2012, Saba announced that, following an internal accounting review, 
management had determined that its annual financial results for fiscal years 2011 and 2010, as well 
as the first and second quarters of fiscal year 2012, should be restated as a result of instances of 
improper time-recording that it had identified in the Company’s professional services business.  On 
November 5, 2012, Saba announced that management     had determined that the Company’s annual 
financial results for fiscal years 2009 and 2008 would also need to be restated. 
 
D.     Compensation of CFO     s Slater and Williams  
 
       17.     During the 12-month periods that followed the filing of the periodic reports 
requiring restatement, Slater and Williams received bonuses and realized profits from sales of Saba 
stock.   
 
       18.    Slater and Williams have not reimbursed those amounts to Saba. 
        
                                           Violations 
 
 
       19.    Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  requires the chief financial officer 
of any issuer required to prepare an accounting restatement due to material noncompliance with the 
securities laws as a result of misconduct to reimburse the issuer for (i) any bonus or incentive-
based or equity-based compensation received by that person from the issuer during the 12-month 
periods following the false filings, and (ii) any profits realized from the sale of securities of the 
issuer during those 12-month periods.  Section 304 does not require that a chief financial officer 
engage in misconduct to trigger the reimbursement requirement.  Slater and Williams both realized 
Saba stock-sale profits and received bonuses during the 12-month periods following the filings 

                                               5  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

containing financial results that Saba is required to restate.  They have not, to date, reimbursed the 
Company for those amounts.  Slater and Williams have, therefore, violated Sarbanes- Oxley 
Section 304. 
                                                 
                                              IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, that: 
 
       A.     Respondents Slater and Williams cease and desist from committing or causing any 
violations and any future violations of Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 
               
       B.     Respondent Slater shall, within 30 days of the entry of this Order, reimburse Saba 
for a total of $337,375 pursuant to Section 304(a) of SOX.  Respondent shall simultaneously deliver 
proof of satisfying this reimbursement obligation to Erin Schneider, Division of Enforcement, 
Securities and Exchange Commission, 44 Montgomery Street, Suite 2800, San Francisco, 
California 94104.   
 
       C.     Respondent Williams shall, within 30 days of the entry of this Order, reimburse 
Saba for a total of $141,992 pursuant to Section 304(a) of SOX.  Respondent shall simultaneously 
deliver proof of satisfying this reimbursement obligation to Erin Schneider, Division of 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 44 Montgomery Street, Suite 2800, San 
Francisco, California 94104.   
 
 
        
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Brent J. Fields 
                                                    Secretary 

                                               6  
