---------------------Page 1---------------------

                               UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                             Before the 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 78273 / July 11, 2016 
 
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940 
Release No. 4447 / July 11, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3788 / July 11, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17332 
                                                     
                                                    ORDER INSTITUTING   
In the Matter of                                    ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
                                                     PURSUANT TO SECTION 203(f) OF THE 
       BLAIR D. ACKMAN  , CPA                        INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940  
                                                     AND RULE 102(e) OF T HE 
Respondent.                                        COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE
                                                     
                                                                                  
 


                                                  
 
        The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Blair D. 
Ackman (“Respondent” or “Ackman”) pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act 
                                                                                      1
of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) and Rule 102(e)(3) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.      
                                                   
                                                 II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 

                                                 
1
  Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings and the findings contained in Section III.2 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 
203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                               III. 
                                                       
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
               1.     Ackman was the chief financial officer and a 5% shareholder of 
MayfieldGentry Realty Advisors, LLC (“MGRA”), an investment adviser registered with the 
Commission from 2004 through July 2013.  He is a certified public accountant licensed in Illinois. 
Ackman, 44 years old, is a resident of Livonia, Michigan. 
        
               2.     On June 23, 2016, a final judgment was entered by consent against 
Ackman, permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the 
Advisers Act, in the civil action entitled United States Securities and Exchange Commission v. 
MayfieldGentry Realty Advisors, LLC, et al., Civil Action Number 13-CV-12520, in the United 
States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan. 
        
               3.      The Commission’s complaint alleged that, in early 2008, MGRA and its 
CEO, Chauncey C. Mayfield (“Mayfield”), misappropriated approximately $3.1 million belonging 
to one of the Detroit public employee pension funds and used the money to purchase two retail 
shopping centers on behalf of MGRA affiliates. 
        
               4.     The complaint alleged that Ackman learned of the misappropriation by late 
March 2008.  The complaint further alleged that, despite his fiduciary obligations, Ackman kept 
the misappropriation a secret from the pension fund, and devised a plan with MGRA’s other 
principals to secretly pay back the pension fund without the pension fund ever learning of the theft. 
        
               5.     The complaint alleged that Ackman and the other MGRA principals 
affirmatively misled the pension fund through financial reporting and an extensive budget 
presentation.  The complaint further alleged that MGRA eventually disclosed the misappropriation 
to the pension fund in late April 2012, after which the pension fund promptly fired MGRA. 
        
       6.      The  complaint  alleged  that  Ackman’s  actions  aided  and  abetted  MGRA’s  and 
Mayfield’s violations of Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act. 
 
                                               IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 

                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that 
        
       A.  Ackman is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
           accountant.   
            
       B.  After 3 years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the Commission 
           consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief 
           Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such an 
application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company for 
which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                      (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of 
or potential defects in the respondent’s or  the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that 
the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Respondent 
appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
 
       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current 
and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, 
the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review 
may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters 
relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear 
or practice before the Commission. 
        

                                                 3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       D.     Pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, Respondent Ackman is barred from 
association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal 
advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating organization, with the right to 
apply for reentry after three (3) years to the appropriate self-regulatory organization, or if there is 
none, to the Commission. 
 
       Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable 
laws and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a 
number of factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following:  
(a) any disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has 
fully or partially waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to 
the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory 
organization arbitration award to a customer, whether or not related to the conduct that 
served as the basis for the Commission order; and (d) any restitution order by a self-
regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the 
Commission order. 
        
                                                 V. 
                                                       
       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by 
Respondent, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other 
amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree 
or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by 
Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set 
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                      Brent J. Fields 
                                                      Secretary 
 
 

                                                 4  
