---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 74229 / February 6, 2015 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3631 / February 6, 2015 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-14724  

                          
                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Christopher J. Kelly, ACA  
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                          
        

       On January 30, 2012, Christopher J. Kelly, ACA (“Kelly”) was denied the privilege of 
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against Kelly pursuant to Rule 
                                                 1
102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission's Rules of Practice.   This order is issued in response to Kelly’s 
application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant 
responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed with the 
Commission. 

       Kelly was found to have engaged in improper professional conduct with respect to his 
role on the Ernst & Young LLP UK (“E&Y UK”) audits of the 2004-2006 financial statements 
for Symmetry Medical Sheffield LTD, f/k/a Thornton Precision Components, Limited (“TPC”).  
The Commission found that, during the relevant period, Kelly’s actions during the audit 
engagements were unreasonable and failed to conform to applicable professional standards.  
Kelly failed to (i) adequately plan, staff and supervise the audits; (ii) properly review and 
adequately test TPC’s journal entries, including top-side journal entries designed to inflate 
revenue; (iii) obtain sufficient competent evidential matter regarding TPC’s accounts receivable; 
and (iv) properly document in the audit work papers the results of audit testing.        
        
       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Kelly 

                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 3359 dated January 30, 2012.  Kelly was 
permitted, pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after two years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                   

attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Kelly is not, at this time, seeking to appear or 
practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to appear and 
practice before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be required to submit an 
application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will comply with the terms of 
the original order in this regard.  Therefore, Kelly’s suspension from practice before the 
Commission as an independent accountant continues in effect until the Commission determines 
that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in accordance with the terms of the 
original order. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
                                                         2
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”   This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Kelly, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the January 30, 2012 order denying 
him the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 
and that Kelly, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in his 
practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Christopher J. Kelly, ACA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as 
an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                              
                                              
                                             Brent J. Fields 
                                             Secretary  

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph 
(e)(1) or (e)(3) of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s 
discretion, be afforded a hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and 
until the applicant has been reinstated by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 
201.102(e)(5)(i). 
 

                                                2 
