---------------------Page 1---------------------

Airline Executive Settles FCPA Charges 
                                                 
Feb. 4, 2016 – The Securities and Exchange Commission today    announced that the CEO of 
South American-based LAN Airlines has agreed to settle charges that he violated the Foreign 
Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) when he a  uthorized improper payments to a third-party consultant 
who may have passed some    money to union officials in the midst of a dispute between the airline 
and its unionized employees  in Argentina . 
 
An SEC investigation found that Ignacio Cueto Plaza, who was serving as president and chief 
operating officer at the time, authorized a sham consulting agreement and the company wire d 
$1.15 million in payments to the consultant’s Virginia -based brokerage account.  The unsigned 
agreement falsely stated that the consultant would undertake a study of existing air routes in 
Argentina.  Cueto knew no such study would be performed and the consultant instead agreed to 
help settle the labor dispute, and Cueto also understood it was possible that the consultant would 
pass a portion of the payments along to union officials in Argentina.  Cueto approved the 
payments to get the unions to abandon their threats to enforce the single-function rule and to get 
them to accept a wage increase lower than the amount asked for in negotiations.     
 
The SEC’s order instituting a settled administrative proceeding finds that Cueto violated the 
internal accounting controls, books and records, and false records provisions of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934.  Without admitting or denying the findings, Cueto agreed to pay  a 
$75,000 penalty and must certify  his compliance with the airline’s policies and procedures  by 
attending anti-corruption training among other undertakings .    
 
The SEC’s continuing investigation is being conducted by Denise Hansberry and Tracy L. Price 
of the FCPA Unit and  supervised by Kara N. Brockmeyer.  The SEC appreciates the assistance 
of the Justice Department’s Fraud Section and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the 
agency also thanks foreign authorities includi ng the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority for 
their assistance.  
   
                                             #  #  # 
