---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 76938 / January 20, 2016 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3733 / January 20, 2016 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-17060 

                                              ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
 In the Matter of                             DESIST PROCEEDINGS, PURSUANT TO 
                                              SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
             Ocwen Financial Corp.            EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING 
                                              FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL 
 Respondent.                                  SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-AND-DESIST 
                                              ORDER 
                                              
                                            I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Ocwen Financial Corp. (“Ocwen” or 
“Respondent”). 

                                           II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (“Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the purpose 
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these proceedings, which 
are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist 
Proceedings, Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and 
Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below. 

                                           III. 

                                                                          1
      On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that: 

                                                 
1
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                           Summary 

       1.     This matter involves Ocwen’s related party transactions and its valuation of 
certain related company liabilities from 2012 to 2014. First, Ocwen disclosed that it had policies, 
procedures and practices that, among other things, required that its then-Executive Chairman of 
the Board (the “Executive Chairman”), who also served as the Chairman of the Board of two 
related companies, Home Loan Servicing Solutions Ltd. (“HLSS”) and Altisource Portfolio 
Solutions S.A. (“Altisource”), be recused from approving transactions with HLSS and 
Altisource. In fact, there were no written policies or procedures regarding recusal and the 
practice that existed was flawed, inconsistent, and ad hoc. Second, Ocwen’s erroneous valuations 
of its financing liability on certain mortgage servicing rights sold to HLSS contributed to Ocwen 
materially misstating its financial results for the last three quarters in 2013 and the first quarter of 
2014. These misstatements resulted from an internal accounting controls failure that caused the 
company to rely on a valuation methodology that did not conform to U.S. Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (“GAAP”). 

       2.     In its Form 10-K for the year 2012, Ocwen disclosed in the 1A “Risk Factors” 
section that it had “adopted policies, procedures and practices to avoid potential conflicts 
involving significant transactions with related parties such as Altisource, including [the 
Executive Chairman’s] recusal from negotiations regarding, and credit committee and board 
approvals of such transactions.” In the same section of its Form 10-K for the year 2013, Ocwen 
similarly disclosed that it had “adopted policies, procedures and practices to avoid potential 
conflicts with respect to [its] dealings with Altisource [and] HLSS [among other related entities], 
including [its] Executive Chairman recusing himself from negotiations regarding, and approvals 
of, transactions with these entities.” The Executive Chairman’s recusal was to be one of several 
safeguards against potential conflicts due to his multiple roles at Ocwen and its related entities. 

       3.     Ocwen had no written related party transactions policies or procedures. And, 
although the Executive Chairman had a practice of recusing himself from negotiations and 
certain approvals of related party transactions, that practice was inconsistent and ad hoc. Ocwen 
therefore failed to devise and maintain its disclosed internal controls sufficient to ensure that the 
Executive Chairman recused himself from all approvals involving potential conflicts of interest 
in Ocwen’s related party transactions. 

       4.     Due to these control failures, the Executive Chairman repeatedly approved 
transactions between Ocwen and HLSS in both his Ocwen- and HLSS-related capacities. In 
addition, as to Altisource, the Executive Chairman voted, as a member of the Ocwen Board of 
Directors, to approve a $75 million bridge loan from Altisource to Ocwen. And, due to other 
internal accounting control deficiencies, Ocwen had either no documentation or insufficient 
documentation of approvals of five transactions between Ocwen and HLSS. 

       5.     Separately, Ocwen materially misstated its net income for three quarters in 2013 
and the first quarter of 2014 by relying on HLSS’s improper valuation of rights to mortgage 
servicing rights (“Rights to MSRs”) that were acquired from Ocwen and still accounted for by 
Ocwen as a financing liability. Although Ocwen reported that it accounted for the Rights to 
MSRs at amortized cost and that the carrying value of the Rights to MSRs “approximate[d] fair 
value,” the valuation for the Rights to MSRs assigned by HLSS was not a fair value estimate. 

                                               2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

Ocwen’s Executive Chairman anticipated that the variance between the HLSS valuation and a 
fair value estimate provided by a third party would be significant; however, he did not share his 
views with anyone at Ocwen or with Ocwen’s external auditors. In addition, Ocwen’s 
management and its Audit Committee failed to adequately review whether HLSS’s valuation 
methodology, which Ocwen relied upon, complied with GAAP. 

                                        Respondent 

       6.     Ocwen is a Florida corporation that, as of October 2015, has its principal place of 
business in West Palm Beach, Florida. Ocwen’s common stock is registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and trades on the New York Stock 
Exchange. Between 2012 and 2014, Ocwen’s Executive Chairman owned approximately 13 
percent of Ocwen’s common stock. 

                                  Other Relevant Entities 

       7.     Altisource is a Luxembourg corporation with its principal executive offices in 
Luxembourg. Altisource comprises certain business divisions divested from Ocwen, and it 
became registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act in 2009. 
It trades on the NASDAQ Global Market. The Executive Chairman of Ocwen became 
Altisource’s Chairman at the time of its formation and owned approximately 26 percent of 
Altisource’s common stock between 2012 and 2014. 

       8.     HLSS is a Cayman Islands corporation with its principal executive offices in the 
Cayman Islands. HLSS’s common stock became registered with the Commission pursuant to 
Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act in February 2012 and, from that date until approximately 
April 2015, traded on the NASDAQ Global Market. HLSS was founded by Ocwen’s Executive 
Chairman in 2010 and conducted an initial public offering in February 2012. The Executive 
Chairman of Ocwen also became HLSS’s Chairman in 2010 and owned 100 percent of HLSS’s 
ordinary shares of common stock prior to the initial public offering, 5 percent after the offering, 
and approximately 1 percent between 2013 and 2014. 

                                        Background 

A.     Ocwen’s Related Party Transactions 

                       Ocwen’s Relationship with Altisource and HLSS 

       9.     Ocwen is a servicer of mortgages that have been securitized and are owned by 
residential mortgage-backed securities trusts. As such, Ocwen collects and remits principal and 
interest payments received from homeowner borrowers and manages loans that are delinquent or 
in foreclosure or bankruptcy. In addition, as one of its obligations in managing delinquent loans, 
Ocwen advances funds to the trusts to cover payments missed by borrowers. 

       10.    In 2009, Ocwen spun-off certain business lines to a newly-created entity, 
Altisource, and entered into long-term agreements for Altisource to provide technology products 
and services to Ocwen including, among other things, home valuations, property preservation 
and inspection services, sales of foreclosed properties, mortgage charge-off collection services, 

                                              3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

and insurance services. Ocwen’s Executive Chairman also became Chairman of Altisource, and 
several Ocwen managers left Ocwen to become executives and members of the board of 
directors at Altisource. 

       11.    In 2010, Ocwen’s Executive Chairman sought to make Ocwen “capital-light” by 
creating HLSS, a company that would be publicly traded and that would finance a substantial 
part of Ocwen’s servicer advances. HLSS was to purchase Ocwen’s mortgage servicing rights 
(“MSRs”), and thereby receive the future servicing fees owed to Ocwen in connection with those 
MSRs and, as a result of that purchase, would be responsible for funding servicer advances. As a 
part of this arrangement, HLSS would retain Ocwen as the subservicer for all mortgages 
underlying the MSRs purchased by HLSS. Ocwen’s Executive Chairman also became HLSS’s 
Chairman, and certain managers and members of the board of directors at Ocwen left Ocwen to 
become executives and board members at HLSS. 

       12.    Due to difficulties encountered with transferring title to the MSRs to HLSS, 
Ocwen retained title and HLSS agreed to acquire the Rights to the MSRs through a financing. 
Ocwen and HLSS executed a master purchase agreement and master subservicing agreement in 
February 2012. On March 5, 2012, Ocwen completed an initial sale to HLSS of Rights to MSRs 
on mortgages with an unpaid principal balance (“UPB”) of $15.2 billion. Under this 
arrangement, Ocwen serviced the mortgages, collected the servicing fees from borrowers and 
remitted the fees to HLSS. From the total servicing fees remitted, HLSS paid Ocwen a base fee 
for its services and a performance fee when Ocwen met certain targets for advance levels. 
Because of his role at HLSS, the Executive Chairman recused himself from negotiating and 
voting on the approval of the master agreements and initial purchase. 

             Ocwen’s Control Breakdowns Relating to Related Party Transactions 

       13.    Although several internal documents created by Ocwen personnel referred to a 
related party transactions policy, there were no written policies or procedures governing when an 
officer or director with a conflict of interest was required to be recused from negotiating or 
approving a related party transaction. While the Executive Chairman routinely recused himself 
from negotiations with Altisource and HLSS and recused himself from approvals of transactions 
in certain instances, including the master purchase and master subservicing agreements and the 
initial sale of Rights to MSRs to HLSS, Ocwen personnel never developed guidelines under 
which such recusal was appropriate. This caused a number of control deficiencies. 

       14.    First, the responsibility for determining whether recusal was appropriate was left 
largely to the Executive Chairman, the person with the conflict of interest. While Ocwen’s in-
house counsel occasionally provided advice on whether the Executive Chairman could 
participate in a related party transaction, there was no meaningful oversight of the Executive 
Chairman’s determination. 

       15.    Second, Ocwen personnel lacked a clear understanding of when recusals were 
required. Ocwen stated in its 2012 Form 10-K that it had “adopted policies, procedures and 
practices to avoid potential conflicts” present in “significant” related party transactions. 
However, Ocwen personnel had conflicting understandings of what types of transactions could 
qualify as significant, and they never attempted to reconcile these conflicting understandings. 

                                               4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

When Ocwen removed the term “significant” from its disclosure in its 2013 Form 10-K, some 
Ocwen personnel continued to view the Executive Chairman’s recusal as required only in 
transactions determined to be significant. Yet, there was no guidance or common understanding 
for making such a determination. In addition, the Executive Chairman and a member of Ocwen 
senior management both believed that the need to approve transactions in the Virgin Islands for 
tax reasons may have been grounds for participating in the approval. Ocwen’s disclosures, 
however, do not include this exception, and this belief was not given sufficient consideration 
internally. 

            Ocwen’s Executive Chairman Approved a Transaction with Altisource 

       16.    In December 2012, Ocwen entered into an agreement to borrow $75 million from 
Altisource as an unsecured bridge loan to serve as part of the consideration paid by Ocwen in 
connection with Ocwen’s acquisition of another mortgage servicer. The Executive Chairman 
voted to approve Ocwen’s entry into the loan agreement. In his role as Chairman of Altisource, 
the Executive Chairman recused himself from the decision to approve the loan. However, he 
reviewed and approved the Altisource board presentation before it was circulated to the 
Altisource Board of Directors for the vote. Ocwen disclosed the loan in a Form 8-K, dated 
December 28, 2012, and in its annual report for 2012 filed on Form 10-K. 

               Ocwen’s Executive Chairman Approved Transactions with HLSS 

       17.    After Ocwen and HLSS executed the master purchase and master subservicing 
agreements and the initial sales of the Rights to MSRs, Ocwen made additional sales, known as 
“Flow Transactions,” to HLSS in 2012 and 2013. Ocwen disclosed in its Form 10-K for 2012 
that “[t]he [2012] HLSS [t]ransactions have improved Ocwen’s liquidity and cash flows . . . 
[and] lowered Ocwen’s capital requirements since HLSS is acquiring not only the Rights to 
MSRs but also the servicer advances related to the Rights to MSRs and assuming responsibility 
for funding servicer advances in the future.” The disclosure added that Ocwen expected “the 
reduction in equity required to run the servicing business” resulting from its sales to HLSS 
would improve the return on equity of Ocwen’s servicing business over time. 

       18.    While Ocwen and HLSS based the purchase price for the Rights to MSRs for each 
Flow Transaction on an appraisal by a third party valuation firm, other terms varied. For 
example, for each Flow Transaction, Ocwen and HLSS negotiated HLSS’s retained fees, which 
were the servicing fees retained by HLSS from those collected and remitted to it by Ocwen after 
payment of the base and performance fees owed back to Ocwen. The retained servicing fee for 
each Flow Transaction was based on the agreed-upon advance target for Ocwen and other 
assumptions that were jointly set by Ocwen and HLSS such as the prepayment rate on the 
underlying loan balances, financing cost and advance borrowing rate. 

       19.    The Flow Transactions with HLSS were approved at Ocwen by different methods. 
The Flow Transactions in 2012 were approved by the unanimous written consent of Ocwen’s 
Executive Committee, which was appointed by the Board and composed of the Executive 
Chairman, another member of the Board of Directors, and Ocwen’s CEO. In 2013, Ocwen 
personnel submitted proposals for approval of these transactions to the Ocwen Credit 
Committee, which was responsible for the financial direction and oversight of Ocwen’s servicing 

                                              5 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

business operated by its wholly owned subsidiary in the Virgin Islands. Approval by the Credit 
Committee was necessary for a Flow Transaction to be consummated. In addition to his other 
roles, the Executive Chairman was also a member of HLSS’s Credit Committee, which 
performed an analogous role to that of the Ocwen Credit Committee. 

       20.    The routine process for Credit Committee review and approval of the Flow 
Transactions was to circulate a memorandum that presented analysis of the proposed price of the 
Rights to MSRs, the retained fees and the varying underlying assumptions. The memoranda 
circulated typically included a signature page to indicate approval by each of the committee 
members. The committee members either executed the signature pages or indicated their 
approval of the transactions by email. 

       21.    In 2012, Ocwen entered into five Flow Transactions with HLSS totaling 
approximately $67.5 billion in UPB. The Executive Chairman approved two of these transactions 
as a member of the Executive Committee in separate written consents. Contemporaneously, the 
Executive Chairman approved all of these transactions in his capacity as a member of the HLSS 
Credit Committee. 

       22.    In 2013, Ocwen entered into four Flow Transactions with HLSS totaling 
approximately $120 billion UPB. The Executive Chairman recused himself from the first 
transaction but then approved the second one for both Ocwen and HLSS. Even when the 
Executive Chairman recused himself from the Credit Committee decision, he still received the 
Credit Committee memorandum because, according to him, “I’m interested in valuation [and] I 
still thought I had the right to say, ‘No, this isn’t going to happen.’” 

       23.    In 2014, the Executive Chairman approved another type of transaction between 
Ocwen and HLSS concerning early buy-out loans, which are delinquent loans eligible for 
purchase by the mortgage servicer. In this transaction, Ocwen sold HLSS early buy-out loans 
worth approximately $672 million that Ocwen recently had purchased. In a February 2014 email 
addressed to members of both Ocwen and HLSS senior management, the Executive Chairman 
approved this purchase on the condition that it did not trigger losses. 

                           Ocwen’s Failure to Document Approvals 

       24.    As to the latter three of the five Flow Transactions between Ocwen and HLSS in 
2012 and two of the four Flow Transactions in 2013, Ocwen was unable to locate final executed 
Executive Committee resolutions, Credit Committee memoranda or approving emails. 
Contemporaneous emails for the last of these transactions in October 2013, however, show a 
request to schedule a phone call for both Credit Committees to discuss the analysis contained in 
the memorandum and a subsequent modification of the retained servicing fee based on a change 
to an underlying assumption. 

       25.    Documentation of Ocwen’s Credit Committee approval process again broke down 
in February 2014 in connection with the early buy-out loan sale agreement between Ocwen and 
HLSS. Ocwen was unable to locate all Credit Committee approvals for this transaction. 

                                              6 
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

B.     Improper Valuation of Rights to MSRs 

       26.    For each transfer of Rights to MSRs from Ocwen to HLSS, HLSS recorded a 
Note Receivable – Rights to MSRs, and Ocwen recorded a corresponding note payable on its 
books, entitled Financing Liability – MSRs Pledged. HLSS purported to carry the asset at fair 
value. Ocwen’s filings stated that it recorded the liability at amortized cost and amortized the 
liability over the estimated life of the underlying MSRs using the interest method. For purposes 
of applying the interest method, Ocwen disclosed to investors that the balance of the liability was 
reduced each quarter based on the change in the present fair value of the estimated future cash 
flows. Because the calculation of amortization of the financing liability had a fair value 
component to it, Ocwen’s 2013 Form 10-K Note 5 provided that “[t]he carrying value of the 
Financing Liability – MSRs Pledged approximates fair value” and that “[t]he net present value of 
these future cash flows represents the fair value of the Financing Liability – MSRs Pledged.” 
Ocwen’s quarterly and annual filings with the Commission also stated that its financial 
statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP. 

       27.    Ocwen did not independently value the Rights to MSRs that it accounted for as a 
financing liability. Rather, in consultation with its external auditors, Ocwen relied on HLSS to 
value the Rights to MSRs and assigned them the value that was derived from HLSS’s valuation 
methodology, which was later proven to be flawed. 

       28.    FASB Financial Accounting Standards Codification Topic 820 (“ASC 820”) – 
Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures defines fair value as the price that would be received 
to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants 
at the measurement date. Because Rights to MSRs are not frequently bought or sold, there rarely 
are observable market prices for them. Rights to MSRs are therefore considered to be a Level 3 
asset in the fair value hierarchy, which are assets that do not have observable inputs for a fair value 
measurement.  While Level 3 assets are more difficult to value, the fair value measurement 
objective remains the same, that is, an exit price from the perspective of a market participant that 
holds the asset. 

       29.    As stated in a previous settled order concerning HLSS, see In re HLSS, Admin. 
Proc. File No. 3-16882 (October 5, 2015), HLSS retained a third party with expertise in valuing 
MSRs to calculate the fair value of its Rights to MSRs. Each quarter, the third-party valuation 
firm performed an analysis of the Rights to MSRs and provided HLSS with a valuation report. 
The valuation reports included an estimate of the fair-value based on inputs that affected the fair 
value of the MSRs, such as then-current prepayment rates, pre-tax discount rates, and costs to 
                                                                                           2
service. This estimate was represented as a specific price that was reflected in basis points. 
Multiplying this specific price, which was the third -party valuation firm’s best-point estimate, by 
the UPB for HLSS’s Rights to MSRs would provide a fair-value measurement for those Rights 
to MSRs. In a prefatory note, the valuation reports stated that a sale of the Rights to MSRs in an 
orderly market should not differ by more than 7.5, or in some instances 10, basis points from the 
best-point estimate provided. 

                                                 
2
       A basis point is one hundredth of one percent. 

                                                7 
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

       30.    In addition to the fair value measurement provided in the valuation report, HLSS 
independently determined the carrying value of its Rights to MSRs. As part of this 
determination, HLSS calculated an “Inception BPS,” also reflected in basis points, by dividing 
the UPB of the mortgages underlying the MSRs as of the date of their acquisition by HLSS’s 
purchase price of the Rights to MSRs. Over time, the UPB of the mortgages generally decreased 
as borrowers paid down their mortgages. At the end of each quarter, HLSS calculated the 
carrying value for the Rights to MSRs by multiplying the Inception BPS by the amount of the 
UPB as of the end of the quarter. This amortization was driven entirely by the decline in size of 
the mortgages’ UPB and was not affected by any of the factors that would affect a fair value 
measurement. 

       31.    Because the value of the MSRs for which HLSS had obtained the rights 
historically had been fairly stable, HLSS developed a valuation methodology that used the 
carrying value of the Rights to MSRs as the presumptive fair value measurement. This 
methodology was reviewed by HLSS’s and Ocwen’s external auditors. For each reporting date, 
HLSS compared the carrying value of its Rights to MSRs (as calculated above) to the third-party 
valuation report’s best-point estimate and would record an adjustment to the value of the Rights 
to MSRs, which HLSS disclosed reflected fair value, only if there was a variation in price of at 
least 5 percent. 

       32.    To illustrate, the third-party valuation firm provided a report with a valuation date 
of November 29, 2013 estimating the price of HLSS’s Rights to MSRs, which had underlying 
mortgages with an UPB of approximately $159.56 billion, at 37.08 basis points. Multiplying the 
UPB by the estimated price, the third party valued the Rights to these MSRs at approximately 
$592 million. Under HLSS’s valuation methodology, HLSS would apply 5 percent bands around 
the third-party valuation firm’s best-point estimate of 37.08 basis points, which would create a 
range from 35.23 basis points (5 percent below) to 38.93 basis points (5 percent above), and 
would report the carrying value of its Rights to MSRs as their fair value so long as the carrying 
value was within the range of values created by the 5 percent bands. In other words, so long as 
HLSS’s carrying value was within approximately $562 million (35.23 basis points multiplied by 
the UPB) and approximately $621 million (38.93 basis points multiplied by the UPB), it would 
report the carrying value as fair value. Based on Ocwen’s financial results for the fourth quarter 
of 2013, this approximately $56 million range was equivalent to 10 percent of its total revenues 
and 41 percent of its net income. 

                               Ocwen Used HLSS’s Valuations 

       33.    Ocwen amortized the Financing Liability using HLSS’s calculation. Under ASC 
820, Ocwen was required to update its expectations of cash flows at each reporting period to 
determine the current net present value of the cash flows. Ocwen did not independently 
determine the current net present value of the cash flows. Rather, it automatically used for each 
quarter the resulting estimates produced by HLSS’s improper valuation methodology. As a 
result, Ocwen would adjust the net present value amounts only if the difference of carrying 
amount was larger than 5 percent of the third-party valuation firm’s best-point estimate. 

                                               8 
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

       34.    Ocwen’s quarterly and annual filings listed “Fair Value Measurements” as a 
“Critical Accounting Policy.” The Fair Value Measurements section referenced the amortization 
of MSRs and the accounting and valuation for the Financing Liability – MSRs Pledged. 

           Ocwen’s Internal Accounting Controls Deficiencies Relating to Valuation 

       35.    While Ocwen relied upon HLSS’s valuation methodology and used HLSS’s 
calculation to account for its financing liability associated with the Rights to MSRs, neither 
Ocwen’s management nor its Audit Committee independently reviewed HLSS’s valuation 
methodology for the Rights to MSRs. 

       36.    Before HLSS implemented the valuation methodology, Ocwen’s Executive 
Chairman (who also served as HLSS’s Chairman) perceived a problem with it. Because the 5 
percent bands created a very large range in terms of dollars, the Executive Chairman anticipated 
that there would be significant differences between the third party best-point estimate and 
HLSS’s carrying value that were still within the 5 percent bands. 

       37.    The Executive Chairman did not share these concerns with Ocwen’s Audit 
Committee, his fellow Ocwen Directors, Ocwen management, or Ocwen’s external auditors. 

       38.    The Audit Committee of Ocwen’s Board of Directors also failed to give sufficient 
independent consideration to the automatic use of estimates derived from HLSS’s valuation 
methodology. The Audit Committee’s charter, which was reviewed by the Board of Directors 
and the Audit Committee in March 2012, provided that the Audit Committee shall: 

              (j)     Review with management, the Company’s independent 
              auditors and the director of the Company’s internal auditing 
              department, the following: 

                     (i) critical accounting policies and such other accounting 
              policies of the Company as are deemed appropriate for review by 
              the Committee prior to any interim or year‐end filings with the 
              SEC or other regulatory body, including any financial reporting 
              issues which could have a material impact on the Company’s 
              financial statements . . . . 

       39.    While Ocwen’s Audit Committee routinely reviewed the financial information 
that resulted from HLSS’s valuation methodology, it did not review the valuation methodology 
itself with Ocwen’s external auditors and did not review with Ocwen management whether it 
was appropriate to use the estimates derived from HLSS’s valuation methodology to value 
Ocwen’s financing liability of the Rights to MSRs. As a result, the Audit Committee did not 
consider whether HLSS’s valuation methodology was an appropriate fair value measurement 
under GAAP, nor did it consider whether the valuation methodology could result in a variance 
between the third party valuation firm’s best-point estimate and the carrying value that was 
material to Ocwen’s reported results. 

                                              9 
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

                                  Ocwen Restated Its Financials 

       40.    The best-point estimate in the valuation reports fluctuated from quarter to quarter; 
however, under its valuation methodology, HLSS did not make any adjustment to the fair value 
of its Rights to MSRs because the Inception BPS used to calculate carrying value did not differ 
by 5 percent or more from the best-point estimate. Consequently, Ocwen did not make any 
adjustments to the net present value of the liability. 

       41.    HLSS revisited the use of its valuation methodology in 2014 and determined that 
the carrying value of the Rights to MSRs was not a fair value measurement under GAAP. HLSS, 
therefore, determined that it was required to restate the value of its Rights to MSRs to the best-
point estimate of fair value provided in the valuation reports. 

       42.    HLSS management then relayed this information to Ocwen’s management. 
Ocwen’s management, after discussions with its external auditors, determined that it should also 
use the third-party’s best-point estimate, which would have resulted in a material variance for 
three quarters in 2013 and the first quarter 2014. 

       43.    In August 2014, Ocwen restated its 2013 Form 10-K and its Form 10-Q for the 
quarter ended March 31, 2014 as a result of this required adjustment and an unrelated data input 
     3
error. As per the chart below, Ocwen’s use of HLSS’s improper valuation resulted in a material 
error to Ocwen’s reported results in quarterly and annual filings and in earnings releases filed on 
Form 8-K. 

Dollars in thousands 
                                                   Adjustment  Adjustment as  
                                                    Relating to       a % of  
                        Net Income As              Accounting   Restated Net  
                         Restated ($)                 Error ($)       Income 
 1Q 14                            60,486                (8,000)              -13% 
 FY 2013                         310,418                 11,356                4% 
 4Q 13                           135,275                 27,582               20% 
 3Q 13                            60,572                (6,831)              -11% 
 2Q 13                            65,662               (13,352)              -20% 
 1Q 13                            48,909                  3,957                8% 
 

C.     Violations 

       44.    As a result of the conduct described above, Ocwen violated Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act, Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder, which require issuers to file 
true, accurate, and complete annual, quarterly and current reports with the Commission. 

                                                 
3
       This data input error related to a subset of the Rights to MSRs as of the fourth quarter of 2013 and the first 
quarter of 2014. The impact of the data error was $5.9 million and $9.3 million as of December 31, 2013 and March 
31, 2014, respectively. 

                                                10 
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

       45.    As a result of the conduct described above, Ocwen violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) 
of the Exchange Act, which requires public companies to “make and keep books, records, and 
accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the issuer.” 

       46.    As a result of the conduct described above, Ocwen violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) 
of the Exchange Act, which requires public companies to “devise and maintain a system of 
internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that . . . (ii) transactions 
are recorded as necessary (I) to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with 
generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such statements, and 
(II) to maintain accountability for assets.” 

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act of 1934, it is hereby 
ORDERED that: 

       A.     Respondent Ocwen cease and desist from committing or causing any violations 
and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act 
and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder. 

       B.     Respondent shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money 
penalty in the amount of $2,000,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to 
the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If 
timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C § 3717. 

       Payment must be made in one of the following ways: 

              (1)    Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, 
                      which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon 
                      request; 

              (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or 

              (3)    Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to: 

                                   Enterprise Services Center 
                                   Accounts Receivable Branch  
                                   HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341  
                                   6500 South MacArthur Boulevard  
                                   Oklahoma City, OK 73169 

                                              11 
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

              Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter 
              identifying Ocwen as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of 
              these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be 
              sent to Michael J. Osnato, Chief, Complex Financial Instruments Unit, Division 
              of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, Brookfield Place, 200 
              Vesey Street, Suite 400, New York, NY, 10281. 

 

       By the Commission. 

                                                   Brent J. Fields  
                                                   Secretary 

                                              12 
 
