---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                
                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                          Before the  
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 73532 / November 5, 2014 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3595 / November 5, 2014 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-13226 

                           
                           : 
                           : 
In the Matter of              ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           : 
                              REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
                           : 
David Blain, CPA              BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           : 
                           : 
                           
        
       On September 19, 2008, David Blain, CPA (“Blain”) was denied the privilege of 
appearing or practicing as an accountant before the Commission as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against Blain pursuant to Rule 
                                                   1
102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission's Rules of Practice.   This order is issued in response to Blain’s 
application for reinstatement to practice before the Commission as an accountant. 
        
       In May 2007, The BISYS Group, Inc. (“BISYS”) was the subject of a settled 
Commission enforcement action charging BISYS with violations of the financial reporting, 
books-and-records, and internal control provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Exchange Act”).  In the September 19, 2008 order the Commission found that from at least 
July 2000 until at least March 2002, while serving as a director of finance of the Insurance 
Services division of BISYS, Blain participated in a variety of improper accounting practices that 
had the purpose and effect of materially overstating BISYS’s income and revenue in the 
company’s reported financial results and rendering its books and records inaccurate.  By virtue 
of this conduct, Blain willfully aided and abetted, and was a cause of, BISYS’s violations of 
Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 
13a-13 thereunder. 
 
       Blain has met all of the conditions set forth in the original order and, in his capacity as an 
independent accountant, has stated that he will comply with all requirements of the Commission 

                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2882 dated September 19, 2008.  Blain was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after one year upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, including, but not limited to all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.  In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the 
preparation or review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the 
Commission, Blain attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent 
audit committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, while practicing before the Commission in this capacity.   
        
       Blain is currently subject to probation under the Pennsylvania State Board of 
Accountancy. Failure to abide by the terms of his probation could result in the suspension of 
Blain’s CPA license. Blain has attested that he will notify the Commission if he is found to have 
violated the terms of the probation. He also has attested that he understands that the suspension 
of his CPA license could result in the revocation of the reinstatement of his privilege to appear or 
practice before the Commission as an accountant. 
        
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
                                                          2
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”   This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
        On the basis of the information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed 
to by Blain, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the September 19, 2008 order 
denying him the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, 
that no information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, 
integrity, professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be 
a basis for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of 
Practice, and that Blain, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit 
committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, in his practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial 
statements required to be filed with the Commission, and that Blain, by undertaking to comply 
with all requirements of the Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, 
including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring 
partner reviews and quality control standards, in his practice before the Commission as an 
independent accountant has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 
        
        
        

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
David Blain, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                            
                                            
                                                           
                                                          Brent J. Fields  
                                                          Secretary  
