---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 78395 / July 22, 2016 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3791 / July 22, 2016 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-14171 

                          
                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
James M. Schneider, CPA  
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                          
        

       On December 22, 2010, James M. Schneider, CPA (“Schneider”) was suspended from 
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against Schneider pursuant to Rule 
                                                1
102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice.   This order is issued in response to 
Schneider’s application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 

       The Commission found that Schneider had been permanently enjoined by a United States 
District Court from future violations of Section 17(a)(2) and Section 17(a)(3) of the Securities 
Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Exchange Act Section 13(b)(5) and Rules 13a-14, 13b21, and 
13b2-2 thereunder, and from aiding and abetting violations of Exchange Act Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder.  In its Complaint 
in the injunctive action, the Commission alleged, among other things, Dell Inc. (“Dell”) 
fraudulently committed various disclosure and accounting violations through the conduct of 
Schneider and others. The Complaint alleged that Schneider made or was involved in making 
material misrepresentations in earnings calls and material misrepresentations and omissions in 
Dell’s annual reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal years 2003 through 2006 and in the company’s 
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the first three quarters of fiscal years 2003 through 2006 and 
the first quarter of fiscal 2007 relating to the impacts on Dell’s operating results from payments 

                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 3222 dated December 22, 2010.  Schneider was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after five years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                    

from Intel Corp. The material misrepresentations during earnings calls misled investors as to the 
bases for Dell’s success in meeting or exceeding analyst consensus EPS estimates and the 
reasons for Dell’s sharp drop in operating results in its second quarter of fiscal year 2007. The 
disclosure violations misrepresented to investors the basis for Dell’s increasing profitability and 
failed to disclose information required by Item 303 of Regulation S-K. The Commission’s 
complaint also alleged, among other things, that Schneider directed and engaged in improper 
accounting that resulted in Dell filing materially false and misleading financial statements in the 
company’s annual reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal years 2002 through 2004, and in the 
company’s quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the first three quarters of fiscal years 2002 
through 2004 and the first two quarters of fiscal 2005. The Complaint alleged that Schneider 
directed and engaged in a number of improper accounting practices in contravention of generally 
accepted accounting principles that materially misstated Dell’s financial results and enabled the 
company to report lower operating expense as a percentage of revenue. These practices included 
improperly manipulating excess reserve balances and improperly accounting for certain 
restructuring costs. 
 
       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Schneider 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Further, Schneider attests that while serving 
on an audit committee, he will undertake to (i) have any action taken as a member of the audit 
committee subject to the scrutiny of the full audit committee, with no function or responsibility 
independent of the audit committee as a whole; (ii) not accept any delegation of authority to act 
on behalf of the chair of the audit committee or the audit committee as a whole; and (iii) not 
serve as chair of an audit committee, absent review by the Office of the Chief Accountant in 
good faith of whether any future offer to serve as chair complies with the requirement that 
Schneider will have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee for which he works 
or in some other acceptable manner.  Schneider is not, at this time, seeking to appear or practice 
before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume appearing 
and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be required to 
submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will comply with the 
terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Schneider’s suspension from 
practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in effect until the 
Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in accordance 
with the terms of the original suspension order. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
                                                          2
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”   This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this rule may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a hearing; 
however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated by the 
Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 

                                                 2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                                 

 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Schneider, including undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit 
committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, in his practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial 
statements required to be filed with the Commission, and, as to serving on an audit committee, 
including undertaking to (i) have any action taken as a member of the audit committee subject to 
the scrutiny of the full audit committee, with no function or responsibility independent of the 
audit committee as a whole; (ii) not accept any delegation of authority to act on behalf of the 
chair of the audit committee or the audit committee as a whole; and (iii) not serve as chair of an 
audit committee, absent review by the Office of the Chief Accountant in good faith of whether 
any future offer to serve as chair complies with the requirement that Schneider will have his 
work reviewed by the independent audit committee for which he works or in some other 
acceptable manner, Schneider has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is 
accordingly, 
 
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
James M. Schneider, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as 
an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                             
                                             
                                            Brent J. Fields  
                                            Secretary  

                                               3 
