---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                          Before the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 72722 / July 30, 2014 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3572 / July 30, 2014 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15991 
                                                 ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC   
                                                 ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE - 
                                                 AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS 
In the Matter of                                 PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 4C AND 21C 
                                                 OF THE SECURITIES  EXCHANGE ACT 
  EDWARD L. CUMMINGS , CPA,                      OF 1934 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                 COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
Respondent.                                                               
                                                                                             
                                                                      
 
 
                                                   
 
                                              I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Edward L. 
                                                                      1
Cummings, CPA (“Respondent” or “Cummings”) pursuant to Sections 4C  and 21C of the 

                                                 
1
       Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
              The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, 
              to any person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in 
              any way, if that person is found . . . to have willfully violated, or willfully aided 
              and abetted the violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and 
              regulations thereunder. 
        
        
        

                                                
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s 
                  2
Rules of Practice.  
 
                                                   II. 
 
        In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making 
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth 
below.   
                                                   III. 
 
                                                                                      3
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds         that:  
 
A.     SUMMARY 
 
        During the 2008 and first quarter 2009 reporting periods (the “relevant period”), QSGI Inc. 
(“QSGI” or the “Company”) was a reseller of and maintenance services provider in relation to used 
computer equipment.  Cummings, who served as QSGI’s Chief Financial Officer prior to 
becoming its Vice President of Finance and Controller in 2009, was aware during the relevant 
period of deficiencies in and the circumvention of internal controls relating to inventory and the 
resulting falsification of the Company’s books and records.  He also participated in the decision, on 
occasion during the relevant period, to improperly accelerate by up to a week recognition on 
QSGI’s books and records of accounts receivable and receipt of inventory in order to increase the 
borrowing base available under a revolving credit facility with the Company’s chief creditor.  
Cummings withheld this information from the Company’s external auditors in connection with 
their audit of the financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 and review of 
the financial statements for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, and made affirmative  

                                                 
2
        Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that:  
 
                The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
                appearing or practicing   before it . . . to any person who is found  . . .  to have 
                willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of any provision of 
                the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.     
 
3
        The findings herein are made pursuant t    o Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not 
        binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.      

                                                    2 
                                                      
---------------------Page 3---------------------

misrepresentations and statements that were misleading as a result of his omission of information, 
including in management representation letters, about the design, maintenance, and operation of 
internal controls.  Further, Cummings signed a Form 10-K for the 2008 fiscal year containing 
management’s report on internal control over financial reporting (“ICFR”), as required by Section 
404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) and Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(c), 
which falsely represented that the Company’s Chief Executive Officer had participated in 
assessing the effectiveness of the Company’s ICFR.  Cummings also signed certifications required 
under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and Rule 13a-14 of the Exchange Act falsely 
representing that the other certifying officer, the CEO, and Cummings had evaluated ICFR and, 
based on their evaluation, disclosed all significant deficiencies to the auditors.  Cummings signed 
the Forms 10-K and 10-Q filed with the Commission to which the certifications were attached.     
    
B.     RESPONDENT 
    
       Cummings co-founded QSGI Inc. in 2001.  He thereafter served as Chief Financial Officer 
and Treasurer until May 2009, when he became Vice President of Finance and Controller.  
Cummings also served as a Director from February 2004 until October 2008.  He was terminated in 
September 2009 following the Company’s filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in July 2009, but 
continued until June 2011 to work as a financial consultant to the Company while it reorganized.  
Cummings was licensed as a certified public accountant in the State of Pennsylvania in 1977; his 
license has been inactive since 1979.     
 
C.     FACTS 
 
       1.     Cummings’ Awareness of Deficiencies In and Circumvention of Inventory 
              Controls                                                             
 
              a.      QSGI is a Delaware corporation headquartered during the relevant period in 
                      West Palm Beach, Florida.  Its common stock is registered with the 
                      Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and is quoted 
                      on the OTC Link (formerly “Pink Sheets”) operated by OTC Markets 
                      Group. 
        
              b.     From May 2004 through the time QSGI filed for bankruptcy in July 2009, 
                      QSGI maintained inventory principally at facilities in New Jersey and 
                      Minnesota.  The New Jersey inventory, which comprised 50% of the 
                      Company’s reported gross inventory and 55% of its reported net inventory, 
                      after reduction for reserves, as of the close of its fiscal year ended December 
                      31, 2008, was comprised of laptops, monitors, and other consumer 
                      electronics and components.  The Minnesota inventory, which comprised 
                      40% of QSGI’s reported gross inventory and 35% of its reported net 
                      inventory, after reduction for reserves, as of the close of QSGI’s 2008 fiscal 
                      year, was comprised chiefly of servers, mainframes, and component parts.    
        

                                                3 
                                                 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

               c.      QSGI experienced recurring inventory control problems, particularly with 
                      its Minnesota operations.  Throughout 2008 until the Company filed for 
                      bankruptcy in mid-2009: (1) certain inventory received into QSGI facilities 
                      was shipped out again without being entered into the Company’s books and 
                      records; and (2) items were removed from physical inventory without being 
                      relieved from inventory on the books and records.  With regard to the latter, 
                      personnel not only removed component parts from the physical inventory of 
                      component parts without relieving the items from recorded inventory, but 
                      occasionally stripped component parts from operating systems which 
                      continued to be recorded on the books and records as intact systems.  These 
                      component parts were then sold by the Company or used for the Company’s 
                      maintenance services.     
        
               d.      These internal control problems resulted in the falsification of QSGI’s 
                      books and records relating to QSGI’s inventory.  See Accounting Standards 
                      Codification 330 - Inventory.  
                
               e.      These inventory control problems emerged at the Minnesota facility 
                      beginning in 2007 for several reasons.  First, a manufacturer’s policy of 
                      curtailing resellers’ ability to modify machines to customers’ specifications 
                      hastened QSGI’s shift from selling machines to selling parts and providing 
                      repair and maintenance services. This, in turn, contributed to the problem in 
                      Minnesota of personnel removing component parts from operating systems 
                      without any corresponding adjustment to the Company’s books and records.  
                      The units continued to be recorded on the books and records as intact 
                      systems.  Second, key personnel, including accounting personnel, left the 
                      Minnesota operations in late 2007.  Personnel designated to replace the 
                      departed accounting staff lacked an accounting background and failed to 
                      fully carry out their responsibilities.  Third, while QSGI management, 
                      including Cummings, had undertaken to design, document, and implement 
                      internal controls to come into compliance with the federal securities laws, 
                      such efforts were not begun in earnest in Minnesota until late 2007, after the 
                      departure of key personnel.  Prior to that point, QSGI senior management 
                      had accorded Minnesota personnel a fair amount of autonomy, including 
                      using an accounting system that differed from the one used in New Jersey.     
                       
               f.     Efforts to introduce new controls to the Minnesota operations during the 
                      2008 fiscal year largely failed.  This was due to a failure to design 
                      procedures taking into account the existing control environment, including 
                      the qualifications and experience level of persons employed to handle 
                      accounting.  Training, for example, either did not take place or was 
                      inadequate.  Additionally, attempts to monitor compliance on an ongoing 
                      basis were inadequate.  As a result, circumvention of the controls in the 
                      Minnesota operations occurred regularly.      

                                                4 
                                                  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                
               g.      From October 2004 until he was terminated in September 2009, Cummings 
                      participated in the design and implementation of internal controls directed at 
                      bringing QSGI into compliance with the federal securities laws.  
                      Notwithstanding his and others’ efforts, Cummings was aware during the 
                      relevant period of ongoing deficiencies in and circumvention of internal 
                      controls relating to inventory, particularly in the Minnesota operations.   
 
               h.      In the final days of the 2008 fiscal year, QSGI senior management, including 
                      Cummings, communicated openly amongst themselves about the failed 
                      implementation, including training in, and circumvention of controls 
                      introduced to the Minnesota office earlier in the year.  They commonly 
                      agreed that corrective action was needed which, given the timing, could not 
                      be undertaken until 2009.   
        
               i.      Cummings was aware that the problems continued throughout the first 
                      quarter ended March 31, 2009.   
        
       2.      Cummings’ Participation in Improper Acceleration of Recognition of Inventory 
               and Accounts Receivable 
 
               a.     QSGI reported net losses in each of the four fiscal years from 2005 through 
                      2008.  As a result, the external auditors issued “going concern” opinions 
                      included in the Forms 10-K for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007 
                      and 2008, which stated that the losses raised substantial doubts about the 
                      Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.  In the circumstances, 
                      QSGI’s ability to procure funds was critical to its continued operation. 
 
               b.     In mid-2008, QSGI entered into a revolving credit facility with its chief 
                      creditor.  QSGI’s inventory and accounts receivable factored into the 
                      weekly calculation of the borrowing base under the revolving credit facility.  
                      A QSGI employee calculated the borrowing base and reported it to 
                      Cummings and another officer for their review prior to transmission to the 
                      chief creditor.         
 
               c.     On occasion during the relevant period, the weekly calculation would 
                      show that QSGI had exceeded its borrowing limit or would not be able to 
                      borrow enough to continue operations through the upcoming week.  In 
                      order to increase the borrowing base, recognition of accounts receivable 
                      and/or the receipt of product into inventory were improperly accelerated 
                      on QSGI’s books and records.   Each time acceleration occurred it was by 
                      a matter of days up to approximately a week in advance of when all 
                      conditions for recognition would be appropriate under generally accepted 

                                                5 
                                                  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

               accounting principles.  See Accounting Standards Codification 330 - 
               Inventory and 310 - Accounts Receivable.   
        
       d.      Once the accounts receivable and/or receipt of inventory were improperly 
               recorded on QSGI’s books and records, the QSGI employee would 
               recalculate the borrowing base using the new figures.   
        
       e.      Cummings participated in and was aware of the decision to improperly 
               accelerate by up to a week the recognition of accounts receivable and the 
               receipt of product into inventory for purposes of recalculating the 
               borrowing base.  He signed the borrowing base certificates reflecting the 
               recalculated numbers.  Cummings was not aware of any acceleration of 
               accounts receivable or inventory from one public reporting period to 
               another that would have materially affected the accuracy of the financial 
               statements.      
 
3.     Cummings Misled QSGI’s Auditors 
        
       a.      Cummings acted as principal liaison between the Company and the external 
               auditors during the relevant period.  At no time did he disclose, or direct 
               anyone else to disclose, to QSGI’s external auditors the deficiencies in and 
               circumvention of internal controls and the improper acceleration of accounts 
               receivable and inventory recognition described above.     
 
       b.      To the contrary, he made misrepresentations, and statements that were 
               misleading as a result of his omission of information, to the external 
               auditors.  In connection with the external auditor’s audit of the financial 
               statements included in QSGI’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
               December 31, 2008 and its review of the financial statements included in 
               the Form 10-Q for the first quarter ended March 31, 2009, Cummings 
               signed management representation letters.  In the management 
               representation letter relating to the 2008 Form 10-K, Cummings omitted to 
               mention the existence of significant deficiencies in the design or operation 
               of ICFR.  Further, in connection with the auditors’ testing of internal 
               controls during the audit of the 2008 financial statements, Cummings orally 
               represented to them that key controls were in place and that there were no 
               significant deficiencies with QSGI’s ICFR.   In the management 
               representation letter relating to the first quarter Form 10-Q, he falsely stated 
               that he had disclosed to the auditors all significant deficiencies in the design 
               or operation of the Company’s ICFR.   
 
       c.      Had Cummings disclosed to the external auditors the deficiencies in and the 
               circumvention of inventory controls and the improper acceleration of 
               accounts receivable and inventory recognition described above, the auditors 

                                         6 
                                          
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                      would have changed the nature, timing, and extent of their procedures in 
                      conducting the audit of the financial statements for the fiscal year ended 
                      December 31, 2008 and review of the financial statements for the quarter 
                      ended March 31, 2009.          
 
       4.     Cummings’ False Representations in Management’s Report on ICFR 
        
              a.      QSGI’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 included 
                      the Company management’s report on ICFR, as required by Section 404 of 
                      the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(c).   
 
              b.      The management report falsely represented that QSGI’s management, 
                      with the participation of QSGI’s CEO and Cummings, had evaluated 
                      QSGI’s ICFR as of December 31, 2008 using the criteria set forth by the 
                      Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in 
                      Internal Control – Integrated Framework.  In fact, the CEO had not 
                      participated and was unfamiliar with the referenced framework.   
              
              c.      Cummings signed the Form 10-K in his capacity as CFO and Treasurer.   
               
       5.     Cummings’ False Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 302 Certifications 
               
              a.      Pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 302 and Exchange Act Rule 13a-
                      14, Cummings signed certifications which were attached to QSGI’s Forms 
                      10-K and 10-Q for the periods ended December 31, 2008 and March 31, 
                      2009, respectively.   
 
              b.     Cummings certified in each that the other certifying officer and he had 
                      disclosed, based on their “most recent evaluation of [ICFR],” to QSGI’s 
                      external auditors all significant deficiencies, “in the design or operation of 
                      [ICFR] which are reasonably likely to adversely affect [QSGI’s] ability to 
                      record, process, summarize and report financial information.”  Improperly 
                      omitted from the certification attached to the Form 10-K, but included in 
                      the certification attached to the Form 10-Q, were Cummings’ certifications 
                      to the effect that the other certifying officer and he: (1) had been 
                      responsible for establishing and maintaining ICFR and designing, or 
                      supervising others in the design of, ICFR; and (2) had designed, or caused 
                      to be designed, such ICFR.   
        
              c.      Cummings’ certifications were false because: (1) the other certifying 
                      officer, the Company CEO, had not participated in designing, establishing, 
                      or maintaining ICFR, and had not evaluated ICFR; (2) Cummings and 
                      others had on occasion circumvented QSGI’s internal controls in 
                      accelerating improperly by up to a week the recognition of accounts 

                                               7 
                                                 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

                       receivable and inventory for purposes of maximizing the borrowing base 
                       under a revolving credit facility with the Company’s chief creditor; and 
                       (2) the other certifying officer and Cummings had not made the referenced 
                       disclosures to the external auditors.   
                
       6.      Violations  
 
               a.      Exchange Act Section 10(b) and Rule 10b-5 thereunder prohibit, in 
                       connection with the purchase or sale of any security, a) the use of any 
                       device, scheme, or artifice to defraud; b) the making of material 
                       misrepresentations or omissions; and c) any act, practice, or course of 
                       business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon any 
                       person.  A finding of scienter is required to establish a violation.  Aaron v. 
                       SEC, 446 U.S. 680, 697 (1980).  The three subdivisions of Rule 10b-5 
                       should be considered mutually supportive, rather than mutually exclusive.  
                       See Cady, Roberts & Co., 40 S.E.C. 907, 913 (1961) (noting that “a breach 
                       of duty of disclosure may be viewed as a device or scheme, an implied 
                       misrepresentation, and an act or practice, violative of all three 
                       subdivisions”). 
                
               b.      “For purposes of Rule 10b-5, the maker of a statement is the person or 
                       entity with ultimate authority over the statement, including its content and 
                       whether and how to communicate it.”  Janus Capital Group, Inc. v. First 
                       Derivatives Traders, 131 S. Ct. 2296, 2302 (2011). 
        
               c.      Courts construe the “in connection with” requirement flexibly to effectuate 
                       its remedial purposes.  SEC v. Zandford, 535 U.S. 813, 819 (2002).  Any 
                       statement that is “reasonably calculated to influence the investing public” 
                       satisfies the “in connection with” requirement.  SEC v. Tex. Gulf Sulphur 
                       Co., 401 F.2d 833, 861-62 (2d. Cir. 1968).  When the fraud alleged involves 
                       public dissemination in a document on which an investor would presumably 
                       rely, the “in connection with” requirement is generally met by proof of the 
                       means of dissemination and the materiality of the misrepresentation.  SEC v. 
                       Rana Research, 8 F.3d 1358, 1362 (9th Cir. 1993)). 
        
               d.      Information is material if there is a “substantial likelihood that the 
                       disclosure of the omitted fact would have been viewed by the reasonable 
                       investor as having significantly altered the ‘total mix’ of information made 
                       available.”  Basic Inc. v. Levinson, 485 U.S. 224, 231-32 (1988) (quoting 
                       TSC Industries, Inc. v. Northway, Inc., 426 U.S. 438, 449 (1976)).  “It is 
                       well-settled that information impugning management’s integrity is material 
                       to shareholders.”  United States v. Hatfield, 724 F. Supp. 2d 321, 328 
                       (E.D.N.Y. 2010).  
        

                                                 8 
                                                  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

               e.      Scienter is the “mental state embracing the intent to deceive, manipulate or 
                       defraud.”  Ernst & Ernst v. Hochfelder, 425 U.S. 185, 193 n.12 (1976).  
                       Scienter can be established by showing knowing misconduct or severe 
                       recklessness, which is defined as “an extreme departure of the standards of 
                       ordinary care… which presents a danger of misleading buyers or sellers that 
                       is either known to the defendant or is so obvious that the actor must have 
                       been aware of it.”  SEC v. Carriba Air, Inc., 681 F.2d 1318, 1324 (11th Cir. 
                       1982). 
                        
               f.      As discussed above, Cummings made materially false and misleading 
                       statements in his certifications attached to the Forms 10-K and 10-Q for the 
                       fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 and the quarter ended March 31, 
                       2009, respectively, to the effect that the other certifying officer and he had: 
                       (1) evaluated QSGI’s ICFR; and (2) disclosed to the external auditors all 
                       significant deficiencies which were reasonably likely to adversely affect 
                       QSGI’s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial 
                       information.  Further, Cummings signed the 2008 Form 10-K in his 
                       capacity as an officer which included a management’s report on ICFR 
                       which falsely stated that QSGI’s CEO had participated with management, in 
                       assessing ICFR pursuant to a specified framework.  Cummings knew, or 
                       was reckless in not knowing, that these statements were false.  As a result of 
                       the foregoing, Cummings violated Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and 
                       Rule 10b-5(a), (b), and (c) thereunder.  
 
               g.      Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires Section 12 registrants to 
                       make and keep books, records, and accounts that accurately and fairly 
                       reflect the transactions and dispositions of their assets.  Section 13(b)(2)(B) 
                       of the Exchange Act requires reporting issuers to devise and maintain 
                       effective internal accounting controls.  Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange 
                       Act provides that no person shall knowingly falsify any such book, record, 
                       or account or circumvent internal controls.  Rule 13b2-1 also prohibits the 
                       falsification of any book, record, or account subject to Section 13(b)(2)(A).   
 
               h.      As discussed above, deficiencies in the design and operation of internal 
                       controls, particularly relating to inventory in the Minnesota operations, had 
                       persisted at QSGI.  During the relevant period, these deficiencies included: 
                       (1) certain inventory received into QSGI facilities being shipped out again 
                       without  being entered into the Company’s books and records; (2) items 
                       being removed from physical inventory without being relieved from 
                       inventory on the books and records; (3) recognition of inventory and 
                       accounts receivable being improperly accelerated by up to a week; and (4) 
                       the failure to disclose significant deficiencies to the external auditors, and 
                       the provision of false management representation letters to the external 
                       auditors in connection with their audit of the 2008 fiscal year and review of 

                                                 9 
                                                  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

                       the first quarter 2009 financial statements.   The deficiencies were reflective 
                       of a failure to design internal controls mindful of the control environment, 
                       including the qualifications of personnel tasked with accounting functions, 
                       and the circumvention of such controls as existed.  As a result, QSGI failed 
                       to devise and maintain effective internal controls and to make and keep 
                       books, records and accounts that accurately and fairly reflected the 
                       transactions and dispositions of the Company’s assets.  Cummings caused 
                       these violations by failing to design effective internal controls; 
                       circumventing controls that existed; and withholding information from the 
                       external auditors and making false representations or material omissions in 
                       management representation letters.  As a result of the actions described 
                       above, Cummings caused QSGI’s violations of Exchange Act Sections 
                       13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B), and violated Exchange Act Section 13(b)(5) 
                       and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder. 
 
               i.      Exchange Act Rule 13b2-2 prohibits any director or officer of an issuer 
                       from directly or indirectly making or causing to be made a materially false 
                       or misleading statement or omit to state, or cause another person to omit to 
                       state, any material fact necessary in order to make statements made, in light 
                       of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not 
                       misleading to an accountant in connection with financial statement audits, 
                       reviews, or examinations or the preparation or filing of any document or 
                       report required to be filed with the Commission.   
 
               j.      As discussed above, Cummings omitted from a management representation 
                       letter to the external auditors in connection with their audit of the 2008 
                       financial statements the existence of significant deficiencies in internal 
                       controls, while orally representing to the auditors in connection with the 
                       same audit that he had disclosed all such significant deficiencies.  He 
                       affirmatively misrepresented in a management representation letter relating 
                       to the external auditors’ review of the first quarter 2009 financial statements 
                       that he had disclosed all significant deficiencies in internal controls.  As a 
                       result of the actions described above, Cummings violated Exchange Act 
                       Rule 13b2-2. 
 
               k.      Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a), which the Commission promulgated in 
                       response to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires that the 
                       issuer’s principal executive officer and principal financial officer certify 
                       each periodic report containing financial statements filed by an issuer 
                       pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.  The certifications are 
                       included as exhibits to the Forms 10-K and 10-Q.   
                
               l.      Item 601(b)(31) of Regulation S-K prescribes the wording.  Amongst other 
                       things, it requires the certifying officer to certify that the other certifying 

                                                10 
                                                   
---------------------Page 11---------------------

                       officer(s) and he/she, “are responsible for establishing and maintaining . . . . 
                       internal control over financial reporting . . . ,” and (1) “. . . . [d]esigned such 
                       internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over 
                       financial reporting to be designed under our supervision . . . . ; and (2) “ . . 
                       have disclosed, based on [their] most recent evaluation of internal control 
                       over financial reporting, to the registrant’s auditors . . . [a]ll significant 
                       deficiencies . . . in the design or operation of internal control over financial 
                       reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant’s 
                       ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information . . . .”    
                
               m.      Cummings falsely certified in the certifications attached to the Forms 10-K 
                       and 10-Q for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 and the quarter 
                       ended March 31, 2009, respectively, that the other certifying officer, the 
                       Company’s CEO, and he had: (1) evaluated QSGI’s ICFR; and (2) 
                       disclosed all significant deficiencies to the external auditors which were 
                       reasonably likely to adversely affect QSGI’s ability to record, process, 
                       summarize, and report financial information.  As a result, Cummings 
                       violated Exchange Act Rule 13a-14 by signing false Section 302 
                       certifications.   
                        
               n.      Pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
                       Cummings willfully violated Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange 
                       Act and Rules 10b-5, 13a-14, 13b2-1, and 13b2-2. 
 
        7.      Findings 
 
       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Cummings: (a) willfully violated 
Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 13a-14, 13b2-1, and 13b2-2 
promulgated thereunder; and (b) caused QSGI’s violations of 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the 
Exchange Act.  
 
                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Cummings’ Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Respondent shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
any future violations of Sections 10(b), 13(b)(5), 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B) and 13(b)(5) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 13a-14, 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 promulgated thereunder.  
        
       B.     Respondent is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant.  

                                                11 
                                                   
---------------------Page 12---------------------

       C.      After five (5) years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief 
Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
                 
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
                      of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the 
                      Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                      Respondent’s work in his practice before the Commission will be reviewed 
                      either by the independent audit committee of the public company for which 
                      he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before 
                      the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
            
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
                      Commission that: 
                 
                      a.      Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
                              associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting 
                              Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley 
                              Act, and such registration continues to be effective; 
            
                      b.      Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
                              is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection 
                              did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the 
                              respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
                              that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
            
                      c.      Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
                              has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed 
                              by the Board (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
            
                      d.      Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Respondent 
                              appears or practices before the Commission as an independent 
                              accountant, to comply with all requirements of the Commission and 
                              the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to 
                              registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
                              control standards.   
                 
       D.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, if 
state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an 
application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in 
addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, 
integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

                                                12 
                                                  
---------------------Page 13---------------------

            
       E.        Respondent is prohibited for a period of five (5) years from the date of the Order 
from acting as an officer or director of any issuer that has a class of securities registered pursuant to 
Section 12 of the Exchange Act, or that is required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the 
Exchange Act. 
 
       F.      Respondent shall, within ten (10) days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money 
penalty in the amount of $23,000.00 to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  If timely 
payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717.  Payment must 
be made in one of the following ways:   
 
               (1)    Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                      will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
        
               (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
        
               (3)     Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
                       
                      Enterprise Services Center 
                      Accounts Receivable Branch 
                      HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                      6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                      Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Cummings as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy 
of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Scott W. Friestad, Associate Director, 
Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE, Washington, DC 
20549. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Jill M. Peterson 
                                                    Assistant Secretary 

                                               13 
                                                 
