---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                         Before the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 70566 / September 30, 2013 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3502 / September 30, 2013 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15536 
 
                                               
                                           ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
In the Matter of                          ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-AND-
                                          DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT 
   JOHN KINROSS      -KENNEDY,            TO SECTIONS 4C AND 21C OF THE 
   CPA,                                   SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 
                                          1934 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
Respondent.                               COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                           PRACTICE 
 
 
                                                  
                                          I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate 
that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted 
against John Kinross-Kennedy, CPA (“Respondent” or “Kinross”) pursuant to Sections 
4C1
    and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 
102(e)(1)(ii) and (iii) of the Commission’s Rule of Practice.2
                                                         
                                                 
1
 Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:   
 
       The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any 
person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person 
is found . . . (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking 
in character or integrity, or to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) 
to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the 
securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
2
 Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part , that: 
 
       The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper 
professional conduct. 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              
                                            II. 
                                              
       After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement and the Office of the Chief 
Accountant allege: 
                                              
       A.      RESPONDENT 
 
       John Kinross-Kennedy, age 85, of Irvine, California, is a certified public 
accountant licensed in California.  Kinross has operated as an unincorporated sole proprietor 
since 1993 and has been  registered with the PCAOB since  2005.  As of July 15, 2013, 
Kinross is the independent public accountant for six public companies.  Since 2009, at any 
one time, he has been the independent accountant for as many as 23 public companies. 
                
       B.      RELEVANT ISSUERS              
 
       1.      At all relevant times, Issuer  A’s common stock was registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and was traded on the OTC 
Bulletin Board, and its fiscal year ended on the last day of March. 

       2.      At all relevant times, Issuer  B filed reports with the Commission pursuant to 
Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, its common stock was traded on the OTC Market, and 
its fiscal year ended on the last day of August. 

       3.      At all relevant times, Issuer  C’s common stock was registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and was     traded on the OTC 
Market, and its fiscal year ended on the last day of September. 

       4.      At all relevant times, Issuer  D’s common stock was registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and was traded on the OTC 
Bulletin Board, and its fiscal year ended on the last day of December. 

       5.      At all relevant times, Issuer  E filed reports with the Commission pursuant to 
Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, its common stock was traded on the OTC Bulletin 
Board, and its fiscal year ended on the last day of December. 
 
       C.      KINROSS’S IMPROPER PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT 
 
       1.      During 2011 and 2012, Kinross issued six unqualified audit reports listed in 
the table below in connection with his audits of the financial statements of five issuers (the 
                                                                                                                                                 
Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
       The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before it . . . to any person who is found…to have willfully violated, or willfully aided 
and abetted the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules and 
regulations thereunder. 
 

                                             2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

“Issuer Audits”), as well as audit reports for approximately 20 other issuers.  In each of 
these six  audit reports, Kinross represents that he conducted his audits in accordance with 
PCAOB standards.  Kinross failed, however, to conduct each of the six audits of the five 
issuer’s financial statements in accordance with PCAOB standards, as described below. 

  Issuer      Report Date                              Fiscal Periods 
Issuer A     June 21, 2011   Periods from inception, March 31, 2009, to March 31, 2010 and 
                              2011 
Issuer A     June 25, 2012   Periods from inception, March 31, 2009, to March 31, 2011 and 
                              2012 
Issuer B     Oct. 31, 2011   Years ended and periods from inception, August 22, 2008, to 
                              August 31, 2011 and 2010 
Issuer C     Dec. 22, 2011   Years ended and periods from inception, August 2, 2005, to 
                              September 30, 2011 and 2010 
Issuer D     March 26,        Years ended and periods from inception, December 22, 2006, to 
             2012             December 31, 2011 and 2010 
Issuer E     Feb. 29, 2012   Years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 
        

       AU §230, Due Professional Care in the Performance of Work 

       2.     Kinross failed to exercise due professional care  in each of the six Issuer 
Audits.  See AU §230.02-.06.  Kinross does not possess the degree of skill commonly 
possessed by other auditors and failed to exercise reasonable care and diligence.  
AU §230.02-.05.  Kinross’s lack of knowledge and skill is demonstrated by his admitted 
familiarity with PCAOB requirements to perform certain auditing procedures, e.g. annual 
written confirmation of his independence (See PCAOB Rule 3526), and his failure to 
communicate with the predecessor auditor (See AU §315) and communicate with the audit 
committee (See AU §380).  He also is unaware of certain changes in GAAP, such as the 
2001 shift from amortization of goodwill to non-amortization of goodwill (changed by 
Financial Accounting Standard No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (June 
2001)). 

       3.     Kinross also failed to exercise due professional care on fundamental aspects 
of the audits by using outdated audit templates to document his audit planning and 
performance of certain audit procedures on each of the audits without any apparent effort to 
adapt those templates for subsequent changes in auditing standards.  Kinross relied upon 
checklists published in 1993, the year he formed his audit practice and ten years before the 
creation of the PCAOB, for client acceptance, internal control evaluation, and transactional 
audit plans for small organizations.  Kinross’s audit work papers for Issuer D’s 
December 31, 2011 financial statements included a copy of the cover page and an index of 
a 1993-checklist, but did not include the checklist itself.  Not only was the checklist 
outdated, the cover page indicated that it pertained to GAAP disclosure requirements for 
financial statements of a nonpublic                        commercial business. 

                                           3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       4.      Kinross’s inappropriate use of client personnel to perform audit steps also 
illustrates his lack of due professional care.  For example, for Issuer E’s December 31, 
2011 audit, Kinross instructed client personnel to select one invoice per month for the 
sample to be subjected to audit testing.  Even though he was present at the time the client 
made the selection, Kinross should have made sure that all items were available for 
selection, selected the items, and made sure that the sample was expected to be 
representative of the population.3
                                   

         AU §326, Evidential Matter and Auditing Standard No. 15, Audit Evidence 

       5.      Under AU §326, Evidential Matter                , which was in effect for the pertinent 
periods beginning before December 15, 2010, an auditor was required to obtain sufficient 
competent evidential matter to afford a reasonable basis for his opinion.  See                                                                         AU §326.01 
and 22-24; and AU §150.02, Generally Accepted Auditing Standards.  Auditing Standard 
No. 15, Audit Evidence        (“AS 15”), which is effective for fiscal periods beginning on or 
after December 15, 2010, requires that an auditor plan and perform audit procedures to 
obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to provide a reasonable basis for his opinion.  
See AS 15, ¶4.  For each of the six Issuer Audits, Kinross failed to obtain the requisite level 
of evidential matter or audit evidence to support his opinion.  

       6.      For the three audits of fiscal years beginning before December 15, 2010, 
Kinross failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to afford a reasonable basis 
for his opinion.  For issuer A, Kinross issued an unqualified audit report on Issuer A’s 
financial statements as of March 31, 2010 and 2011 and the periods from inception (March 
31, 2009), despite the fact that he had performed no audit procedures as of March 31, 2010 
or for the period from inception (March 31, 2009) to March 31, 2010.  Kinross issued an 
unqualified audit report on Issuer B’s August 31, 2011 financial statements.  Issuer B’s sole 
operating subsidiary accounted for 100 percent of Issuer B’s revenues and cost of revenues 
and 15 percent of its expenses.  Yet, Kinross performed no audit procedures on the 
subsidiary’s revenues or its expenses.  Instead, Kinross conducted a “balance sheet audit,” 
relying on the change in net equity to validate the subsidiary’s net income and limiting the 
testing of Issue B’s expenses.  With respect Issuer  C, which recorded a $42 million gain 
upon deconsolidation of Issuer B and a corresponding $42 million investment in Issuer B 
(See FASB ASC 810-10-40-5, Consolidation: Derecognition), Kinross failed to consider 
potential impairment of Issuer C’s $42 million investment in Issuer B despite Issuer B’s 
stock price having declined by 94 percent by Issuer C’s fiscal year end. 

       7.      For the three audits of fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2010, 
Kinross failed to plan and perform audit procedures to obtain sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence to provide a reasonable basis for his opinion.  For issuer A, Kinross issued an 

                                                 
3
       AU §350.03 Audit Sampling           , “[R]equire[s] that the auditor use professional judgment in 
planning, performing, and evaluating a sample and in relating the evidential matter produced by 
the sample to other evidential matter when forming a conclusion about the related account 
balance or class of transactions.”  Additionally, AU §350.39 provides that the sample should be 
selected in such a way that the sample can be expected to be representative of the population and 
that each item in the population should have an opportunity to be selected.   

                                             4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

unqualified audit report on Issuer A’s financial statements as of March 31, 2011 and 2012 
and the periods from inception (March 31, 2009), despite the fact that he had performed no 
audit procedures as of March 31, 2010 or for the period from inception (March 31, 2009) to 
March 31, 2010.  With respect to his audit of Issuer D’s December 31, 2011 financial 
statements, Kinross inadequately tested revenues and cost of goods sold.  Despite Issuer D 
having only one customer and relatively few transactions, Kinross did not review sales 
contracts or purchase orders with customers or suppliers to identify terms that might affect 
the timing of revenue recognition or cost of goods sold.  Additionally, Kinross 
inappropriately relied upon documents that he could not read, either because the documents 
were written in Chinese or because the copies were illegible.  With respect to Issuer E, 
Kinross inadequately tested revenues and failed to investigate material, unidentified 
differences between schedules detailing sales transactions and the amount of recorded sales 
revenue.  

       Auditing Standard No. 8, Audit Risk 

       8.     Kinross failed to obtain sufficient audit evidence by failing to conduct three 
audits in compliance with Auditing Standard No. 8, Audit Risk (“AS 8”), which is effective 
for audits of fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2010.  AS 8 requires an 
auditor to plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 
financial statements are free of material misstatement due to error or fraud.  An auditor 
obtains reasonable assurance by reducing audit risk to an appropriately low level through 
applying due professional care, including obtaining sufficient appropriate audit evidence. 
See AS 8, ¶3.  Kinross did not exercise due professional care and did not obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence for Issuer D’s and Issuer E’s December 31, 2011 audits or Issuer 
A’s March 31, 2012 audit.  Consequently, Kinross did not conduct these audits in a manner 
designed to reduce risk to an appropriately low level. 
        
       AU §333, Management Representations       
        
       9.     Under AU §333, Management Representations, an independent auditor 
must obtain written representations from management for all financial statements and all 
periods covered by the audit report.  Kinross failed to satisfy this auditing standard for each 
of the Issuer Audits because he issued audit reports on both the current and prior year’s 
financial statements even though he obtained written representations from management 
only for the current year’s financial statements.  See                                               AU §333.05. 
        
       Auditing Standard No. 3, Audit Documentation 
        
       10.    For each of the Issuer Audits, Kinross’s audit documentation was deficient.  
Auditing Standard No. 3, Audit Documentation (“AS 3”) establishes the requirements for 
documentation that the auditor should prepare and retain in connection with engagements 
to support the auditor’s conclusions and representations contained in the auditor’s report.  
See AS 3, ¶2.  Audit documentation must contain sufficient information to enable an 
experienced auditor, having no previous connection with the engagement to (a) understand 
the nature, timing, extent, and results of the procedures performed, evidence obtained, and 
conclusion reached; and (b) determine who performed the work and the date such work 

                                            5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

was completed as well as the person who reviewed the work and the date of such review.  
See AS 3 ¶6.  Kinross failed to prepare documentation that sufficiently described the 
procedures he performed, the evidence he obtained, and the conclusions he reached.  
Kinross’s documentation also did not identify the person who performed the work and the 
date such work was completed, or the person who reviewed the work and the date of the 
review.  Kinross performed substantially all of the audit procedures, but he frequently did 
not sign or initial and date his audit work papers.  Additionally, Kinross did not include 
written audit programs or document the conclusions he reached for most audit areas other 
than cash.  See AS 3, ¶¶4-6.  Finally, he did not prepare an engagement completion 
document identifying significant findings or issues.  See                                                    AS 3, ¶13.   
        
       11.    Kinross added information to his audit work papers after the documentation 
completion date without identifying who prepared the additional documentation and 
explaining why it was added.  In some instances, he failed to specify the date he added the 
information.  See  AS 3, ¶16.  
         
       12.    Kinross did not retain audit documentation for the required seven years.  
Kinross was unable to locate documentation to support his audit reports on Issuer B’s fiscal 
year 2008 and Issuer C’s fiscal year 2008 financial statements, the earliest years covered by 
his initial audit reports for these issuers.  See                                         AS 3, ¶14.   
        
         Auditing Standard No. 7, Engagement Quality Review 
          
       13.    Kinross failed to obtain required Engagement Quality Reviews (“EQR”) for 
the vast majority of his audit engagements, and he engaged an unqualified person to 
perform the few EQRs that he did obtain.  Under Auditing Standard No. 7, Engagement 
Quality Review (“AS 7”), an auditor must obtain an EQR and concurring approval to issue 
the engagement report for each audit and interim review engagement. 4
                                                                      Kinross engaged 
Wilfred W. Hanson to conduct EQRs on the engagements for five of the 40 audit reports he 
issued on financial statements for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2009.5
                                                                                        
For the same period, however, Kinross also did not obtain the required EQRs for any of the 
other 35 audits he conducted or for any reviews of interim financial information.  See AS 7, 
¶1.   

       14.    Kinross engaged Hanson to conduct   an EQR on the audits of Issuer A’s 
March 31, 2012 financial statements, Issuer B’s August 31, 2011 financial statements, 
Issuer C’s September 30, 2011 financial statements, Issuer D’s December 30, 2011 
financial statements, and Issuer E’s December 31, 2011 financial statements.  In connection 
with these audits, Kinross did not ascertain whether Hanson was qualified to perform the 
review.  An engagement quality reviewer must be, among other things, competent, i.e., 
possessing the level of knowledge and competence related to accounting, auditing and 
                                                 
4
       AS 7 is effective for audits and interim reviews for fiscal years beginning on or after 
December 15, 2009.  
 
5
       In the Matter of Wilfred W. Hanson, CPA . Admin Pro. File No. 3-______ 
 

                                            6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

financial reporting required to serve as the engagement partner on the engagement under 
review.  See AS 7, ¶¶4-5.  Additionally, Kinross did not establish quality control policies 
and procedures to provide him with reasonable assurance that the engagement quality 
reviewer has sufficient competence, among other things, to perform the EQR.  See                                                                              AS 7, 
¶4.6
     Finally, Kinross did not determine whether Hanson prepared audit document in 
connection with the EQRs.  See                            AS 7, ¶¶9-11 and ¶¶19-  20.   

       15.    With respect to Issuer D, Kinross requested that Hanson act as the 
engagement quality reviewer but did not request him to provide concurring approval of 
issuance of Kinross’s audit report.  Instead, Kinross improperly signed as the engagement 
quality review partner and provided concurring approval to issue the audit report, even 
though Kinross was the engagement partner responsible for supervising the audit. 

       AU §508, Reports on Audited Financial Statements      

       16.    Under AU §508, Reports on Audited Financial Statements       , an auditor may 
issue an unqualified opinion on historical financial statements only when the auditor has 
formed such an opinion on the basis of an audit performed in accordance with PCAOB 
standards.  See           AU §508.07.  Kinross failed to conduct each of the Issuer Audits in 
accordance with PCAOB standards.  Kinross should not have issued audit reports 
expressing an unqualified opinion and asserting he had conducted his audits in accordance 
with PCAOB standards. 

         Communications with Audit Committees 

       17.    For each of the Issuer Audits, Kinross failed to make required 
communications to the audit committee or to others responsible for the oversight of the 
issuer’s financial reporting process.  See AU  §380, Communications With Audit 
Committees, Section 10A(k) of the Exchange Act, Rule 2-07 of Regulation S-X, and 
PCAOB Rule 3526, Communication with Audit Committees Concerning Independence                  .  
Kinross did not  make or document that he had made the required communications to the 
audit committee (or board of directors for an entities without an audit committee), 
including: i) the auditor’s responsibility under PCAOB standards, ii) significant accounting 
policies, iii) management’s judgments and accounting estimates, iv) audit adjustments, v) 
the auditor’s judgment about the quality of the company’s accounting principles, vi) other 
information in documents containing audited financial statements, vii) disagreements with 
management, viii) consultation with other accountants, ix) major issues discussed with 
management prior to retention, and x) difficulties encountered in performing the audit.  See  
AU §380.03-.16. 

                                                 
6
       PCAOB standard QC §40, The Personnel Management Element of a Firm's System of 
Quality Control-Competencies Required by a Practitioner-in-Charge of an Attest Engagement 
states, in part, that policies and procedures should be established to provide the firm with 
reasonable assurance that “those hired possess the appropriate characteristics to enable them to 
perform competently” and “[w]ork is assigned to personnel having the degree of technical 
training and proficiency required in the circumstances.”  QC §40, ¶.02. 

                                            7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

       18.    For each of the Issuer Audits, Kinross neglected to report information 
regarding: i) all critical accounting policies and practices to be used, ii) all alternative 
treatments of financial information within GAAP for policies and practices related to 
material items that have been discussed with management,  including ramifications of the 
use of such alternative disclosures and treatments, and the treatment preferred by the 
registered public accounting firm, and iii) other material written communications between 
the registered public accounting firm and management (management letter, summary of 
unadjusted differences).  See  Section 10A(k) of the Exchange Act and Rule 2-07 of 
Regulation S-X. 

       19.    With respect to Issuer A, Kinross failed to affirm to the audit committee7
                                                                                      , in 
writing, prior to accepting his initial engagement pursuant to standards of the PCAOB that 
he was in compliance with PCAOB Rule 3520, Auditor Independence.  Similarly, with 
respect to continuation of engagements for Issuers A, B, C, D, and E, Kinross failed to 
affirm to the audit committee, in writing, at least annually that he was in compliance with 
PCAOB Rule 3520. 

       AU §315, Communication Between Predecessor and Successor Auditors 

       20.    Kinross failed to make required communications with the predecessor 
auditor or obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to afford a reasonable basis for his 
opinion on Issuer A’s fiscal year 2010 financial statements, which were included in his 
unqualified audit report on Issuer A’s financial statements for the fiscal years ending March 
31, 2011 and March 31, 2010.  As the successor auditor, Kinross was required to obtain 
sufficient competent evidential matter to afford a reasonable basis for expressing an 
opinion on Issuer A’s financial statements, including making an inquiry of the predecessor 
auditor and requesting to review its work papers.  See AU §315, Communications Between 
Predecessor and Successor Auditors, ¶¶.03 and ¶¶.07-.13.  For the fiscal year ending 
March 31, 2010, Kinross never contacted Issuer A’s predecessor auditor.  Instead, he relied 
exclusively on the predecessor’s audit report on Issuer A’s March 31, 2010 financial 
statements as the basis for his opinion on Issuer A’s March 31, 2010 financial statements, 
even though he had not spoken with the predecessor auditor or reviewed the predecessor 
auditor’s work papers.  Because Kinross performed no audit procedures as of March 31, 
2010 or for the period then ended, he failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter 
to afford a reasonable basis for his opinion on Issuer A’s March 31, 2010 and 2011 
financial statements.  See AU §326 and AU §315.12.   

         AU § 330, The Confirmation Process 

       21.    With respect to Issuer A, and consistent with his practice, Kinross did not 
control the confirmation process.  The purpose of the confirmation process, which includes 
communicating the confirmation request to the appropriate third party, is to obtain evidence 
directly from a third party about management’s financial statements.  See                                                                     AU §330.28.  
Kinross failed to maintain control over the confirmation requests and did not establish 

                                                 
7
       Section 3(a)(58) of the Exchange Act states, in part, that the term “audit committee” 
means the entire board of directors if the issuer does not have an audit committee. 

                                            8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

direct communication with the intended recipients.  Kinross knew that the auditor should 
control the confirmation process, but he instructed his clients to prepare and mail 
confirmation requests on his behalf. 

         AU §334, Related Parties 

       22.     With respect to Issuer D, Kinross failed to evaluate and assess the adequacy 
of the issuer’s disclosure of related party transactions.  Kinross knew that Issuer D derived 
100 percent of its revenues and cost of revenues from a company that owned 93 percent of 
Issuer D’s common stock, and with which Issuer D shared its officers and its principal 
place of business.  Kinross also knew or should have known that the transactions with its 
parent company were material and required disclosure.  See                                                        FASB ASC 850-10-50, 
Related Party Disclosures.  Kinross failed to consider whether he had obtained sufficient 
appropriate evidential matter to understand the relationship of the parties and the effects of 
the transactions on the financial statements.  Similarly, he failed to evaluate all the 
information available and satisfy himself that Issuer D adequately disclosed related party 
transactions in its financial statements.  See AU § 334.11.  In fact, Issuer D did not make 
required disclosures regarding related parties transactions in its December 31, 2011 
financial statements. 

         Auditing Standard No. 14, Evaluating Audit Results 

       23.     For Issuers C and D, Kinross failed to aggregate uncorrected differences 
that were clearly not inconsequential, and evaluate whether material, either individually or 
in combination with other misstatements. AS 14, Evaluating Audit Results, (“AS 14”)  .8
                                                                                        
Kinross determined planning materiality based on an amount equal to five percent  of total 
expenses.  During the audit, Kinross identified, but did not address differences that 
exceeded five percent of total expenses, i.e., planning materiality.  Kinross failed to 
evaluate whether the uncorrected differences were material, individually or in combination 
with other misstatements.  See  AS 14, ¶¶11-18. 

         Section 10A (j)  of the Exchange Act, Audit Partner Rotation 

       24.     Section 10A (j)  of the Exchange Act, Audit Partner Rotation.  Kinross was 
Issuer D’s registered public accounting firm 2007 until he resigned in November 2012.  
During this period, Kinross issued audit reports for Issuer D’s financial statements for each 
of the five years in the period ended December 31, 2011.  Kinross continued to provide 
audit services in connection with reviews of Issuer D’s interim financial information for the 
quarters ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2012.  As a result, Kinross was not 
independent with respect to the audit services he provided in connection with his review of 
Issuer D’s 2012 interim financial statements.9
                                              

                                                 
8
       AS 14 is effective for audits of fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2010. 
9
       Kinross does not qualify for the audit partner rotation exemption pursuant to Rule 2-
01(c)(6)(ii) of Regulation S-X because Kinross was the auditor for five or more issuer clients at 
all relevant times.  

                                             9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

       D.     VIOLATIONS 
 
              1.      As a result of the conduct described above, Kinross willfully 
violated Sections 10A(j), Audit Partner Rotation, and 10A(k), Reports to Audit 
Committees, of the Exchange Act; 
        
              2.      As a result of the conduct described above, Kinross willfully 
violated Rule 2-02(b)(1), Representations as to the Audit included in Accountants' Reports, 
and Rule 2-07, Communication with Audit Committees, of  Regulation S-X. 
 
              3.      As a result of the conduct described above, Kinross engaged in 
improper professional conduct as defined in Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) in that his conduct 
constituted negligent conduct, consisting of repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, 
each resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of 
competence to practice before the Commission.   
 
              4.      As a result of the conduct described above, Kinross willfully 
violated certain provisions of the Federal securities laws and the rules and regulations 
thereunder pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
                                           III. 
        
       In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement and the Office of 
the Chief Accountant, the Commission deems it necessary and appropriate in the public 
interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be instituted to 
determine: 
        
       A.     Whether the allegations set forth in Section II hereof are true and, in 
connection therewith, to afford Respondent an opportunity to establish any defenses to such 
allegations;  
        
       B.     What, if any, remedial action is appropriate against Respondent pursuant to 
Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
including, but not limited to, censure or denying, temporarily or permanently, the privilege 
of appearing or practicing before the Commission;  
        
       C.     Whether, pursuant to Section 21C  of the Exchange Act, Respondent should 
be ordered to cease and desist from committing or causing violations of and any future 
violations of Section 10A(j) and (k) of the Exchange Act and Rules 2-02(b)(1) and 2-07 of 
Regulation S-X, whether Respondent should be ordered to pay a civil penalty pursuant to 
Section 21B(a) of the Exchange Act, and whether Respondent should be ordered to pay 
disgorgement pursuant to Sections 21B(e) and 21C(e) of the Exchange Act. 
                                             
                                           IV. 
        

                                            10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

       IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the 
questions set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened not earlier than 30 days and not 
later than 60 days from service of this Order at a time and place to be fixed, and before an 
Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the 
Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. §201.110.                                               
        
       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent shall file an Answer to the allegations 
contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as provided by 
Rule 220 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. §201.220.  
        
       If Respondent fails to file the directed answer, or fails to appear at a hearing after 
being duly notified, the Respondent may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be 
determined against him upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be 
deemed to be true as provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f), and 310 of the Commission's 
Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R.  §§201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f), and 201.310. 
        
       This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondent personally or by certified 
mail. 
        
       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an 
initial decision no later than 300 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to 
Rule 360(a)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
        
       In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission 
engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually 
related proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter, 
except as witness or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice.  Since this proceeding is 
not “rule making” within the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it 
is not deemed subject to the provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any 
final Commission action. 
        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                            Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                            Secretary 

                                            11 
