---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  71050 / December 12, 2013 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  3516 / December 12, 2013 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-15641 
 
                                             ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE -AND-
In the Matter of                             DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
                                             SECTION  21C OF THE SECURITIES 
      GLG PARTNERS, INC.  and                EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  , MAKING 
      GLG PARTNERS, L.P. ,                   FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE -
                                             AND-DESIST ORDER  
Respondent s. 
 
 
 
                                                 
                                           I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission” or “SEC”) deems it appropriate 
that cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against GLG Partners, Inc. (“GPI”) and GLG 
Partners, L.P. (“GLG”) (collectively, “Respondents”).   
                                             
                                           II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making 
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.  
                            

                                             
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               III. 
 
                                                                               1
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offer, the Commission finds   that:  
 
                                          Respondents 
                                                 
       1.      GPI is a Delaware corporation with its principal offices in New York, NY.  During 
the time period relevant to this proceeding, GPI was listed on the NYSE.  GPI served as the 
holding company for U.K. investment adviser GLG, which was GPI’s then-primary subsidiary, as 
well as various GLG affiliates.  During this time period, GLG shared senior management with GPI.  
GPI’s common stock and warrants to purchase the common stock were securities registered 
pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act.  On October 14, 2010, GPI was acquired by a 
U.K.-listed issuer.  GPI’s stock and warrants are no longer listed. 
        
       2.      GLG is a U.K. investment adviser structured as an English limited partnership, with 
its headquarters in London, England.  It has operated in the U.S. directly and through affiliates.  
GLG is not registered with the Commission but is authorized and regulated by the U.K. Financial 
Conduct Authority.  GLG is the investment manager for the GLG Emerging Markets Fund (“EM 
Fund”) and was the investment manager for the EM Fund’s side-pocket fund, GLG Emerging 
Markets (Special Assets) Fund (“EMSA1 Fund”), prior to the EMSA1 Fund’s dissolution.  The 
EM and EMSA1 Funds were hedge funds, formed as Cayman Islands limited liability companies, 
which had U.S. investors.  GLG is not currently a subsidiary of GPI but remains its affiliate. 
        
                                           Summary 
        
       3.      This matter involves investment adviser GLG’s failure to maintain sufficient 
controls relating to the valuation of fund assets.  Under GLG’s asset valuation policies, assets 
which were not quoted in the market and whose value could not readily be determined through 
outside data sources (“Level 3 assets”) were to be priced monthly by an independent pricing 
committee (“IPC”).  However, GLG had established inadequate controls to ensure information 
relevant to Level 3 asset valuations was provided to the IPC, and, on various occasions, GLG 
failed to provide material information to the IPC.  In addition, GLG had established no mechanism 
for ensuring that the IPC had sufficient time to review pricing recommendations, and, in certain 
instances, GLG failed to provide the IPC with enough time to review recommendations.  GLG also 
generally kept no record of the IPC’s basis for monthly decisions to keep Level 3 asset valuations 
unchanged, which violated GLG’s Pricing Policy directive that “comprehensive documentation” 
be maintained “to ensure the rationale supporting any judgments made is recorded and available 
for future reference.”   
 
       4.      As a result of these controls failures, GLG overvalued a 25% private equity stake in 
an emerging market coal-mining company (“Coal Co.”) from November 2008 through November 

                                                 
1
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offer and are not binding on any other 
person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

2010.  This Level 3 asset had been purchased in March 2008 by the EM Fund and transferred in 
June 2008 to the EMSA1 Fund.  The Coal Co. asset was overvalued by roughly $160 million for 
25 months, resulting in inflated fee revenue of $7,766,667 for GLG and its parent GPI, then a U.S.-
listed issuer.  The overvaluation of the asset led to misstatements in GPI’s filings with the SEC 
relating to the period from 2008 through the second quarter of 2010. 
 
       5.      By their actions, GPI violated Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the 
Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rules 13a-1, 13a-11, 13a-13, and 12b-20, and GLG was a cause 
of these violations. 
 
                                          Background 
                                                  
                           GLG’s Valuation Policies and Practices 
 
       6.      Each GLG fund’s asset valuation policies were set forth in the fund’s prospectus as 
well as the Pricing and Valuation Policy for GLG Funds (“Pricing Policy”).  The EM Fund 
prospectus provided that a Level 3 asset would be valued as determined by the fund’s directors, in 
good faith and with care, in consultation with GLG and the fund’s administrator.  The summary of 
terms for the EMSA1 Fund stated that the EMSA1 Fund was adopting the same valuation 
principles described in the EM Fund prospectus.  GLG’s use of the term “Level 3” was not 
equivalent, and did not purport to be equivalent, to the concept of Level 3 inputs contained in U.S. 
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or International Financial Reporting Standards.    
 
       7.      The Pricing Policy set forth the “framework and methodology for determination, 
validation, approval, regular monitoring and review of pricing across the GLG Funds.”  Pursuant to 
the Pricing Policy, each fund’s directors delegated the responsibility for approving prices and 
pricing mechanisms to GLG’s IPC.  Furthermore, the Pricing Policy stated that documents 
supporting valuations should be made and kept. 
 
       8.      Pursuant to the Pricing Policy, the IPC met on a monthly basis, but GLG or the 
fund administrator could call additional meetings “on an ad hoc basis on short notice to approve a 
price of an asset, and/or provide additional information.”  The IPC did not have a fixed 
membership but required a “quorum” of participants from four separate groups for its meetings.  
The quorum for an IPC meeting consisted of: 
 
       1. any one Director of the relevant fund; 2. a representative of the Fund 
       Administrator; 3. a representative from senior management of [GLG]; 4. a 
       representative from the risk management team of [GLG]. 
 
Although not expressly stated in the Pricing Policy, only participants falling into the four 
categories of quorum members could vote to approve prices, and all votes were required to be 
unanimous.  A senior member of GLG’s middle-office accounting staff acted as a non-voting 
“chair” for the meetings, which were typically held by teleconference.    
 
       9.      Under the Pricing Policy, “All assets priced using Level 3 prices should be referred 
to the IPC on a monthly basis for ratification and approval by the IPC.”   
                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
       10.     GLG’s middle-office accounting department did not have a systematic, monthly 
practice for asking GLG fund managers whether changes to the values of Level 3 assets were 
warranted for any assets held in their funds’ portfolios.  Instead, the middle-office accounting staff  
sporadically collected some changes in Level 3 pricing recommendations and other updates from 
the various GLG fund managers, then set the monthly meeting agenda and circulated the available 
information to an e-mail list of potential IPC participants in advance of monthly meetings.     
 
       11.    Beginning in 2009, an undocumented supplemental practice developed for 
conducting “semi-annual private-equity reviews” in January and July, at which all of the GLG 
funds’ Level 3 assets were reviewed by the IPC.  Commentaries and documentation relevant to 
each position’s mark were prepared by the GLG fund teams, collected by middle-office accounting 
staff, and then distributed by middle-office accounting staff to the potential IPC participants in 
advance of these semi-annual meetings.  The lack of an established practice for monthly reviews 
created confusion within GLG as to whether relevant information and changes in pricing 
recommendations should be transmitted to the IPC on an ongoing, monthly basis or whether 
transmittal could be delayed until the next semi-annual review.  
 
                       Purchase and Initial Marking of Coal Co. Stake 
 
       12.    In December 2007, GLG agreed to buy a 25% stake in Coal Co. for $210 million.  
It was the EM Fund’s objective to sell the stake in a potential near-term IPO.   The EM Fund 
closed the Coal Co. purchase on March 20, 2008.  On March 31, 2008, the IPC approved an initial 
valuation or “mark” of $425 million for the position.  GLG based its recommendation for the $425-
million mark on an internal valuation report prepared by an EM Fund analyst.  This internal report 
employed a discounted-cash-flow (“DCF”) analysis as well as a review of comparable public 
equities.  The report took note of a large increase in coking coal prices that had occurred in late 
2007 and early 2008 as the primary justification for the mark-up over the EM Fund’s purchase 
price.  Furthermore, the report projected that Coal Co. would be able to quadruple its coal 
production over the next four or five years, pursuant to its management’s aggressive expansion 
plans.  Three months later, the Coal Co. position was transferred to the EMSA1 Fund. 
 
       13.    The manager of the EM and EMSA1 Funds resigned from GLG on October 31, 
2008, along with the analyst who had prepared GLG’s internal valuation report on Coal Co. and 
who was responsible for ongoing updates of GLG’s DCF model for the position.  Until June 2011, 
the Coal Co. stake remained in the EMSA1 Fund, which did not accept additional investment 
during that period. 
 
           GLG’s Policies and Procedures Failed to Ensure Timely Transmittal of 
        Relevant Information to IPC, Resulting in Overvaluation of Coal Co. Position  
 
       14.     On a number of occasions between November 2008 and December 2010, GLG 
employees received information calling into question the $425-million valuation for the Coal Co. 
position, but there were inadequate policies and procedures to ensure that relevant information 
such as this was timely provided to the IPC or that recommendations to lower the mark were 

                                               4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

forwarded to the IPC expediently.  Additionally, there was confusion among GLG’s fund 
managers, middle-office accounting personnel, and senior management as to whose role it was to 
determine that valuation issues should be elevated to the IPC.     
 
       15.     GLG also failed to implement policies and procedures to ensure that the IPC 
participants were provided with sufficient time to thoroughly review pricing recommendations and 
supporting documentation forwarded to the IPC.  This failure occurred despite prior guidance from 
the GLG funds’ independent auditor, in early 2008, that the IPC should be given adequate time 
before making determinations in order to make sure that sufficient rigor was exercised with respect 
to valuations.  As a result of these failures, the Coal Co. position remained overvalued during the 
entire period from November 1, 2008 through November 30, 2010.   
        
       2008 – 2009 
 
       16.     By the time that the Coal Co. mark for the month of November 2008 was ratified 
by the IPC, several of the key bases for the initial mark of $425 million no longer held true.  Coal 
Co. and GLG were no longer pursuing an IPO in the near to mid-term, there had been a significant 
decline in emerging equity markets and in the stock prices of comparable coal miners, and coking 
coal prices had begun a steep decline.  GLG failed to provide current information on these factors 
to the IPC at that time.  Additionally, GLG failed to inform the IPC that Coal Co. had experienced 
significant shortfalls in its projected output, GLG’s prior DCF model for Coal Co. was no longer 
being updated, and internal doubts had arisen among GLG’s analysts regarding the continued 
validity of the Coal Co. mark.  During this same time period, GLG and GPI employees with 
responsibility for the EMSA1 Fund discussed in e-mails their intention to obtain a third-party 
valuation of Coal Co. and to reexamine the position’s mark on the basis of the third-party 
valuation.  However, there was no established procedure for obtaining third-party valuations and 
the third-party valuation was not obtained until January 2010.   
 
       17.     During the first half of 2009, GLG’s policies and procedures failed to ensure 
transmittal of additional relevant, valuation-related information to the IPC.   For example, the IPC 
was not informed of a continued drop in Coal Co.’s output and in the price of coking coal.  
Moreover, the IPC was not informed that GLG’s analysts were reaching lower valuations for the 
Coal Co. position.  During the second half of 2009, the IPC received no updates on the Coal Co. 
position prior to the year-end semi-annual private-equity review. 
        
       First Half of 2010 
 
       18.     GLG obtained a third-party valuation of Coal Co. in January 2010.  The EM Fund 
co-manager’s primary objective in obtaining the third-party valuation report was to assist in GLG’s 
private-market attempts to sell the EMSA1 Fund’s stake in Coal Co. rather than as a pricing 
document to be submitted to the IPC.  He obtained a brief, free valuation report from one of EM 
Fund’s brokers, as a client accommodation.  When he later forwarded the report to the middle-
office accounting staff, the middle-office accounting staff, who lacked expertise in valuing assets, 
assumed that the report was sufficient for the IPC to base pricing decisions upon.  In actuality, the 
report was based on limited sources of information, and the third-party firm had made no attempt 

                                                5  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

to contact Coal Co. directly in order to obtain or verify information contained in the report.  
Nevertheless, the third-party report reflected a valuation for the EMSA1 Fund’s Coal Co. stake of 
$350 million, which was $75 million less than the EMSA1 Fund’s $425-million mark.   
 
       19.     After receiving the report from the fund manager, GLG’s middle-office accounting 
staff failed to forward it to the list of potential IPC participants until after business hours on the 
night before the January 2010 semi-annual private-equity review meeting.  The report was 
provided to the participants as part of an extensive production of data and recommendations for all 
37 private-equity positions held by GLG firm-wide.  GLG thus did not provide sufficient time for 
the IPC participants to review the report in depth prior to the IPC meeting, which was held at 12:30 
PM.  The IPC approved maintaining the existing mark of $425 million based on a $200 million 
range of values that only appeared on the report’s cover page rather than the actual valuation of 
$350 million set forth in the body of the report.  Despite guidance from its funds’ auditor in early 
2008 that the IPC would benefit from technical assistance when considering valuations, GLG did 
not obtain such assistance for the IPC in evaluating the third-party report on Coal Co. or at any 
point during the relevant period.     
 
       Second Half of 2010 – January 2011 
 
       20.     In mid-June 2010, GLG concluded that its efforts to find a private-market buyer for 
the Coal Co. position had failed and that a near-term IPO was still unlikely.  In order to present the 
EMSA1 Fund investors with an alternative exit opportunity, GLG decided to hire a global financial 
services firm to conduct an auction of the EMSA1 Fund shares, the value of which, by that time, 
was almost entirely in the Coal Co. stake.  The high bidder in the auction would be permitted to 
                                                                2
make a tender offer to many of the EMSA1 Fund shareholders        and , in June 2011, this bidder and 
all non  -ten dering shareholders would automatically be  subscribed into a successor special  -assets  
fund .   The  auction plan included  preparation and issuance of a detailed Coal Co. valuation report 
by  the  financial services firm . 
 
       2 1 .   Although   the  EM Fund co  -manager re ceived the financial services  firm’s draft 
report and final valuation figures in September 2010, GLG lacked policies and procedures to 
ensure that the conclusions of the financial services firm were timely forwarded to and considered 
by the IPC.  The draft report provided a preliminary valuation range of $221-259 million and a 
stated midpoint of $240 million.  The final report provided a final valuation range of $246-284 
million and a stated midpoint of $265 million, which was $160 million less than GLG’s $425 
million mark.  However, a recommendation to lower the Coal Co. mark to the financial services 
firm’s final valuation of $265 million was not presented to the IPC in connection with the IPC’s 
monthly meetings for September, October or November 2010.  Instead, the recommendation was 
put forward in January 2011 in connection with the IPC’s semi-annual private equity review, to be 
effective December 1, 2010.  At that time, however, the financial services firm’s report was not 
shared with the IPC, based on confidentiality concerns associated with the auction process.  In 

                                                 
2
 “U.S. persons,” as well as Canadian, Australian, Japanese, and South African shareholders, among 
others, were to be excluded from the offer. 

                                                  6  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

addition, the IPC was not provided with any valuation recommendation for the Coal Co. position 
or other related materials in advance of the January 2011 meeting.   
                                                
                   Failure to Document IPC’s Basis for Monthly Decisions 
                         to Keep Level 3 Asset Valuations Unchanged 
 
       22.    The Pricing Policy directed that Level 3 prices be “ratifi[ed] and approv[ed]” 
monthly and that “comprehensive documentation” be maintained “to ensure the rationale 
supporting any judgments made is recorded and available for future reference.”  However, for 21 
of 25 months from November 2008 through November 2010, GLG failed to document the basis for 
the IPC’s monthly ratification and approval of the EMSA1 Fund’s $425-million Coal Co. mark. 
 
                           Inflated Fee Revenue to GLG and GPI 
        
       23.    The EMSA1 Fund’s summary of terms provided that the EMSA1 Fund would 
charge a 2% annual management fee and a 0.5% annual administration fee – identical to fee 
percentages charged by the EM Fund.  Both the management fee and the administration fee were 
calculated on the basis of the EMSA1 Fund’s monthly net asset value (“NAV”).  Contractually, the 
EMSA1 Fund remitted the 2% management fee to GLG and remitted 2/3 of the 0.5% 
administration fee, i.e., 0.33%, to a GPI subsidiary.  Accordingly, a total of 2.33% in annual fees 
was remitted to GPI, calculated on the full amount of the Coal Co. position’s valuation, which was 
by far the largest component of the EMSA1 Fund’s NAV. 
        
       24.    As a result of GLG’s deficient valuation policies and procedures, the monthly 
valuation for the EMSA1 Fund’s Coal Co. position was overstated by approximately $160 million 
during the period from November 1, 2008 through November 30, 2010.  This led to inflated or 
excess management and administration fees remitted to GLG and/or GPI totaling approximately 
$7,766,667.   
 
                               Misstatements in GPI’s Filings 
        
       25.    GPI’s SEC filings contained a number of misstatements related to AUM which 
resulted from the $160-million overvaluation of the Coal Co. position from November 2008 
through November 2010.  AUM was a key metric for GPI because the issuer’s revenues were 
largely a function of various types of fee revenues calculated as percentages of AUM.  
Information regarding AUM was thus necessary to an understanding of the results of GPI’s 
operations.  Beginning in the second quarter of 2009, GPI’s filings frequently highlighted GLG’s 
“long-short fund” and “alternative strategy” AUM, which included the EMSA1 Fund’s AUM, as 
preferential to its “long-only fund” AUM because the former categories typically had a higher 
fee structure.  Some of GPI’s misstatements were made in quarterly or annual reports, while 
others appeared in press releases and/or investor presentations filed as exhibits to Forms 8-K. 
 
       26.    In all, at least 14 of GPI’s filings, filed with the Commission from March 2009 
through August 2010, contained the following types of misstatements: (1) overstatements of 
AUM of the EMSA1 Fund; (2) overstatements of combined AUM of GLG special assets funds; 

                                              7  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

and (3) overstatements of AUM of GLG “mixed asset” long-short funds as a percentage of 
alternative-strategy AUM.  These overstatements ranged in magnitude from 8.9% to 36.4%.  For 
example, GLG’s $160 million overvaluation of the EMSA1 Fund’s Coal Co. position resulted in 
GPI’s overstatement of the EMSA1 Fund’s AUM by about 33.3% in its 2008 annual report and 
by 36.4% in its 2009 annual report.  In addition, the combined AUM of GLG special assets funds 
was overstated by between 14% and 18% from the fourth quarter of 2008 through the second 
quarter of 2010. 
  
                                Violations of the Exchange Act 
 
       27.     Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires public companies to devise and 
maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain accountability for assets.  Section 
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires public companies to make and keep books, records and 
accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the company’s transactions and 
dispositions of its assets.  No showing of scienter is required to establish a violation of Sections 
13(b)(2)(A) and (B).  SEC v. World-Wide Coin Investments, Ltd., 567 F.Supp. 724, 751 (N.D. Ga. 
1983). 
 
       28.     As set forth above, GPI and its wholly-owned subsidiary, GLG, failed to design and 
maintain adequate internal controls related to the valuation of fund assets, on the basis of which fee 
revenues were calculated and recorded.  GLG had inadequate policies and procedures to ensure 
that information relevant to valuations was provided to the IPC when it became available, and, in 
various instances, GLG failed to provide necessary information to the IPC due to confusion within 
GLG regarding whose role it was to elevate such information to the IPC.  GLG had no policies or 
procedures to ensure that the IPC had sufficient time to review valuation recommendations, and, in 
various instances, GLG failed to provide the IPC with sufficient time to review such 
recommendations.  In addition, GLG generally kept no record of the IPC’s basis for monthly 
decisions to keep individual Level 3 fund asset valuations unchanged.  As a result of these failures, 
the books and records of GPI and GLG were inaccurate because the EMSA1 Fund’s Coal Co. 
position was overvalued from November 2008 through November 2010.  GPI thus violated 
Sections 13(b)(2)(B) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, and GLG was a cause of these 
violations. 
 
       29.     Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder 
require issuers of registered securities to file factually accurate annual, quarterly, and current 
reports with the SEC.  No showing of scienter is required to establish a violation of Section 13(a).  
SEC v. Savoy Indus., Inc., 587 F.2d 1149, 1167 (D.C. Cir. 1978), cert denied, 440 U.S. 913 (1979).  
Exchange Act Rule 12b-20 requires the addition to such reports of further material information as 
necessary to make the required report statements not misleading. 
 
       30.     As set forth above, GPI filed numerous reports with the SEC covering the period 
2008 through June 30, 2010 that contained inaccuracies related to overstated AUM, which were 

                                                8  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

material.  GPI thus violated the aforementioned reporting provisions, and GLG, through its 
valuation-related controls failures, was a cause of these violations.   
 
                                         Undertakings 
 
       GPI and GLG have undertaken to: 
 
       31.    Retain, within 30 days from the date of entry of the Order, the services of an 
Independent Consultant, who is not unacceptable to the Commission’s staff.  Respondents shall 
require the Independent Consultant to perform all of the services and tasks described below.  
Respondents shall exclusively bear all costs, including compensation and expenses, associated 
with the retention and performance of the Independent Consultant. 
 
       32.    Respondents shall require the Independent Consultant to conduct a 
comprehensive review and prepare a written report (“Initial Report”) regarding GLG’s policies, 
procedures and practices for the valuation of Level 3 assets.  Respondents shall require the 
Independent Consultant to issue and deliver to GLG and the Commission’s staff the Initial 
Report within 180 days from the date of entry of the Order. The Initial Report must include a 
description of the review performed, the conclusions reached, and the Independent Consultant’s 
recommendations as to how GLG should improve, modify or supplement its policies, procedures 
and practices for the valuation of Level 3 assets.  

       33.    GLG shall adopt all recommendations in the Initial Report, provided, however, 
that within 30 days after the Independent Consultant delivers the Initial Report, GLG shall in 
writing advise the Independent Consultant and the Commission’s staff of any recommendations 
that it considers unduly burdensome, impractical or costly.  GLG need not adopt such 
recommendations at that time but shall propose in writing an alternative policy or procedure 
designed to achieve the same objective or purpose.  As to any recommendations on which GLG 
and the Independent Consultant do not agree, such parties shall attempt in good faith to reach an 
agreement within 30 days after GLG delivers the written advice.  In the event that GLG and the 
Independent Consultant are unable to agree on an alternative proposal, GLG shall abide by the 
determination of the Independent Consultant.  

       34.    GLG shall, within three months after the issuance of the Independent Consultant’s 
Initial Report, certify, in writing, compliance with the undertakings set forth above.  The 
certification shall identify the undertakings, provide written evidence of compliance in the form 
of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient to demonstrate compliance.  The 
Commission staff may make reasonable requests for further evidence of compliance, and 
Respondents agree to provide such evidence.  The certification and supporting material shall be 
submitted to Lisa W. Deitch, Assistant Director, with a copy to the Office of Chief Counsel of 
the Enforcement Division.  

       35.    Respondents shall, one year after GLG’s implementation of the recommendations, 
require the Independent Consultant to review and test GLG’s policies, procedures and practices 
for the valuation of Level 3 assets and deliver to GLG and the Commission’s staff a final written 
report (“Final Report”) analyzing GLG’s adoption, implementation, maintenance and 

                                               9  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

enforcement of the policies, procedures and practices contained in the Initial Report and the 
effectiveness of those policies, procedures, and practices during the prior year.  Respondents 
shall require the Independent Consultant to issue and deliver to GLG and the Commission’s staff 
the Final Report within 90 days from the date of the first-year implementation anniversary.  The 
Final Report must include a description of the review and testing performed, the conclusions 
reached, and any additional recommendations by the Independent Consultant as to how GLG 
should further improve, modify or supplement its policies, procedures and practices for the 
valuation of Level 3 assets. 
 
       36.    GLG shall adopt all additional recommendations in the Final Report, provided, 
however, that within 30 days after the Independent Consultant delivers the Final Report, GLG 
shall in writing advise the Independent Consultant and the Commission’s staff of any 
recommendations that it considers unduly burdensome, impractical or costly.  GLG need not 
adopt such additional recommendations at that time but shall propose in writing an alternative 
policy or procedure designed to achieve the same objective or purpose.  As to any 
recommendations on which GLG and the Independent Consultant do not agree, such parties shall 
attempt in good faith to reach an agreement within 30 days after GLG delivers the written 
advice.  In the event that GLG and the Independent Consultant are unable to agree on an 
alternative proposal, GLG shall abide by the determination of the Independent Consultant. 
 
       37.    GLG shall, within three months after the issuance of the Independent Consultant’s 
Final Report, certify, in writing, adoption of the Independent Consultant’s additional 
recommendations.  The certification shall identify the recommendations, provide written 
evidence of compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient to 
demonstrate compliance.  The Commission staff may make reasonable requests for further 
evidence of compliance, and Respondents agree to provide such evidence.  The certification and 
supporting material shall be submitted to Lisa W. Deitch, Assistant Director, with a copy to the 
Office of Chief Counsel of the Enforcement Division. 
 
       38.    Respondents: (i) shall not have the authority to terminate the Independent 
Consultant, without the prior written approval of the Commission’s staff; (ii) shall compensate 
the Independent Consultant, and persons engaged to assist the Independent Consultant, for 
services rendered pursuant to the Order at their reasonable and customary rates; and (iii) shall not 
be in and shall not have an attorney-client relationship with the Independent Consultant and shall 
not seek to invoke the attorney-client or any other doctrine or privilege to prevent the 
Independent Consultant from transmitting any information, reports or documents to the 
Commission or the Commission’s staff. 
 
       39.    Respondents shall require the Independent Consultant to enter into an agreement 
that provides that for the period of engagement and for a period of two years from completion of 
the engagement, the Independent Consultant shall not enter into any employment, consultant, 
attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with Respondents, or any of their 
present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity.  The 
agreement will also provide that the Independent Consultant will require that any firm with 
which he/she is affiliated or of which he/she is a member, and any person engaged to assist the 

                                               10   
---------------------Page 11---------------------

Independent Consultant in performance of his/her duties under this Order shall not, without prior 
written consent of the Commission’s staff, enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-
client, auditing or other professional relationship with Respondents, or any of their present or 
former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such for the 
period of the engagement and for a period of two years after the engagement.  
 
                                              IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.     Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondents GPI and GLG cease and 
desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 
thereunder. 
 
       B.     Respondents  GPI  and  GLG  shall  comply  with  the  undertakings  enumerated  in 
Section III above.  
 
       C.     Respondents GPI and GLG shall, within 14 days of the entry of this Order, pay 
disgorgement of $7,766,667, representing their management and administrative fee overcharges for 
the period November 1, 2008 through November 30, 2010,  and prejudgment interest of $437,679, 
to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  If timely payment is not made, additional interest 
shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600.  Payment must be made in one of the following 
ways:   
 
       (1) Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will 
       provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
       (2) Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through the 
       SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
       (3) Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States postal 
       money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and hand-
       delivered or mailed to:  
 
              Enterprise Services Center 
              Accounts Receivable Branch 
              HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
              6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
              Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying GPI 
and GLG as Respondents in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of 

                                               11   
---------------------Page 12---------------------

the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Antonia Chion, Division of 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE, Washington, DC 20549.     
 
       D.     Within 14 days of the entry of this Order, Respondent GPI shall pay a civil money 
penalty in the amount of $375,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission, and Respondent 
GLG shall pay a civil money penalty in the amount of $375,000 to the Securities and Exchange 
Commission.  If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 
3717.  Payment must be made in one of the following ways:   
 
       (1) Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will 
       provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
       (2) Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through the 
       SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
       (3) Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States postal 
       money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and hand-
       delivered or mailed to:  
 
              Enterprise Services Center 
              Accounts Receivable Branch 
              HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
              6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
              Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying GPI 
and GLG as Respondents in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of 
the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Antonia Chion, Division of 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE, Washington, DC 20549.  
                              

                                              12   
---------------------Page 13---------------------

       E.      Pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, a Fair 
Fund is created for the disgorgement, interest and/or penalties referenced in paragraphs C-D above.  
Regardless of whether any such Fair Fund distribution is made, amounts ordered to be paid as civil 
money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be treated as penalties paid to the government for all 
purposes, including all tax purposes.  To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, 
Respondents agree that in any Related Investor Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled 
to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or reduction of any award of compensatory damages by the 
amount of any part of Respondents’ payment of a civil penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset").  If 
the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that they 
shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the 
Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the United States 
Treasury or to a Fair Fund, as the Commission directs.  Such a payment shall not be deemed an 
additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty imposed 
in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" means a private 
damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based on 
substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this 
proceeding. 
 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                      Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                      Secretary 

                                                13   
