---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 79005 / September 30, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3810 / September 30, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17606 
                                              ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE -AND-DESIST 
In the Matter of                              PROCEEDINGS, PURSUANT TO  SECTION 
                                              21C OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
      GlaxoSmithKline plc ,                   OF 1934, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                              IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIO  NS AND A 
Respondent.                                   CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER  
 
 
 
 
                                                
                                           I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against GlaxoSmithKline plc (“Respondent”). 
                                             
                                           II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings, Pursuant to 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making 
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth 
below. 
                            
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                 III. 
 
                                                                                    1
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that  
 
                                              Summary 
  
       A.     These proceedings arise out of GSK’s violations of the internal controls and 
recordkeeping provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (the “FCPA”) [15 U.S.C. § 
78dd]. 
        
       B.     Between at least 2010 and June 2013, employees and agents of GSK’s China-based 
subsidiary and a China-based joint-venture engaged in various transactions and schemes to provide 
things of value to foreign officials, including healthcare professionals (“HCPs”), in order to 
improperly influence them and increase sales of GSK products in China.   
        
       C.     This misconduct was facilitated in part by the use of collusive third parties that 
ostensibly provided legitimate travel and other services.  The funds used for the improper 
inducements were frequently obtained under the guise of, and falsely recorded in GSK’s books and 
records as, legitimate travel and entertainment expense, marketing expense, speaker payments, 
medical associations payments, and promotion expense.  Throughout this period GSK failed to 
devise and maintain a sufficient system of internal accounting controls and lacked an effective anti-
corruption compliance program. 
        
       D.     The deficiencies in GSK’s internal accounting controls and compliance program 
also led to instances of similar improper conduct in connection with sales in other countries in 
which GSK operates. 
        
 
                                          Respondent 
 
       E.     GlaxoSmithKline plc is a corporation organized in the United Kingdom.  Its 
headquarters are located in Middlesex, United Kingdom.  GSK’s common stock is registered with 
the Commission under Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act and trades on the New York 
Stock Exchange under the symbol ‘GSK’. 
        
       F.      GSK is a global provider of pharmaceutical and consumer health care products and 
its products are sold in at least 150 countries. 
 
                                 

                                                 
1
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not 
       binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.     
 
                                                  2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                  Other Relevant Entities 
 
       G.     GlaxoSmithKline (China) Investment Co Ltd (“GSKCI”) is operated from 
Shanghai, China.  GSKCI operations include the sale and marketing of pharmaceutical products.  
GSKCI is a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of GSK. 
 
       H.     Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ltd (“TSKF”) is a 
public-private joint venture with Tianjin Zhong Xin Pharmaceutical Group Corporation Ltd and 
Tianjin Pharmaceutical Group Co Ltd.  GSK indirectly owns 55 percent of TSKF. 
 
                                               Facts 
 
       I.      From at least 2010 to June 2013, employees and agents of GSKCI and TSKF 
engaged in transactions and schemes to corruptly transfer things of value to foreign officials in 
China to increase sales of pharmaceutical products.  The payments were made to increase sales 
through increased prescriptions by individual HCPs and purchases by hospital administrative staff 
responsible for product selection or purchase.  The conduct occurred across all geographic areas 
within the sales and marketing functions and impacted all product lines.   
 
       J.      The corrupt payments took varied forms, including gifts, improper travel and 
entertainment with no or little educational purpose, shopping excursions, family and home visits, 
and cash.    The costs associated with these payments were recorded in GSK’s books and records 
as legitimate expenses, such as medical association sponsorships, employee expenses, conferences, 
speaker fees, and marketing costs. 
        
       K.     These improper practices were pervasive among GSKCI’s and TSKF’s sales and 
marketing representatives and were condoned by regional and district managers.  For example, a 
2013 work plan submitted by a sales representative to a regional sales manager described the intent 
to pay, among other things, an HCP RMB 20/box of prescribed product every month, and deliver 
appropriate gifts on each holiday in exchange for a guarantee of more than 40 boxes of prescribed 
product every month. 
        
       L.     Among the ways employees were able to fund payments to HCPs was the use of 
collusive third party vendors, such as those used to perform planning and travel services for events 
involving HCPs.  Between 2010 and June 2013, GSKCI spent nearly RMB 1.4 billion (USD $225 
million) on planning and travel services.  Test sampling showed that approximately 44 percent of 
the sampled invoices were inflated and approximately 12 percent were for events that did not 
occur. 
        
       M.    Controls weaknesses also permitted ostensibly legitimate speaker fees to be used to 
improperly influence HCPs.  While GSK’s policies as of 2010 placed limits on the amount of fees 
paid to speakers per hour and by 2012 cumulatively per year, there was no effective system in 
place to ensure the actual identity of a speaker.  Of approximately RMB 106 million (USD $17 
million) spent by GSKI in speaker fees, approximately RMB 14 million (USD $2.2 million) was 
paid to persons whose qualification as an HCP could not be verified. 

                                               3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

        
       N.     Marketing programs were another mechanism used to improperly influence HCPs.  
For example, in 2010, GSKCI engaged a local vendor to facilitate a national marketing program 
called the Cold Chain Project.  The project was intended to provide healthcare clinics with tools to 
facilitate the storage and administration of vaccines that required refrigeration.  However, the 
project was instead used to provide HCPs with gifts such as laptops, tablets, and other electronic 
devices.  Over the life of the project, GSKCI paid out RMB 14.6 million (approximately USD $2.3 
million).  The project was created and administered by senior marketing and sales managers of 
GSKCI.  The clinics selected were based upon the potential to market additional pharmaceutical 
products.   
        
       O.     During this period, local internal audit and compliance reviews identified controls 
deficiencies and evidence of some mechanisms that were used to fund the improper payments, but 
they were treated as isolated instances rather than signs of a larger problem. For example, in 2013 a 
Sales Rep Office Audit was conducted by internal audit with respect to the Guangzhou office.  
Among the problems identified were: 
        
                     Issues of falsified POS slips and fake bank statements 
                     Issues of fake invoices claimed from hotels and restaurants for sales 
                      meeting activities.  These invoices came from a local preferred meeting 
                      agency used by the Guangzhou office. 
                     Compliance and New Employee training not timely completed 
                     Sales employees’ salaries were significantly driven by commissions that 
                      could lead to an incentive to improperly inflate sales. The audit sampled 20 
                      percent of the sales team for the office and found that for 41 percent their 
                      sales commission bonuses were greater than 50 percent of their income. 
 
       P.     As early as 2010, internal audit identified problems related to sales and promotions 
staff practices in China.  Among other findings it noted:  
            
                      [d]uring 2010, several new policies governing commercial 
                      activities such as grants and donations and sponsorships 
                      were introduced.  The significant changes, combined with 
                      the high staff turnover, contribute to an environment where 
                      many commercial and medical staff do not understand how 
                      to apply policies or the rationale behind them.  This was 
                      evidenced by approval of non-compliant activities, a lack of 
                      clarity on which policy to apply for activities such as grants, 
                      and weaknesses in documentation to support the legitimate 
                      intent of activities such as advisory boards and sponsorships 
                      of HCPs to attend meetings. 
 
       Q.     As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent violated Sections 
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(b)(2)(A) 
and 78m(b)(2)(B)]. 

                                                4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                    GSK’s Remedial Efforts 

       R.  In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts 
           promptly undertaken by Respondent and cooperation afforded the Commission staff. 

               1.  During the course of the investigation, Respondent provided prompt and 
                  regular briefings regarding its own internal investigation in China, and with 
                  respect to other countries.  Respondent timely conveyed the facts it learned in 
                  the course of its own investigation, promptly responded to document requests 
                  by the Commission staff, and provided translations of documents as needed. 

               2.  Respondent also provided detailed and timely information regarding its 
                  remedial efforts, enhancements to its compliance program and implementation 
                  of key initiatives.   

               3.  Respondent made global changes to its business.  This included the 
                  elimination of most payments to doctors, including fees to HCPs to speak 
                  about the Company’s prescription medicines, and altering the compensation 
                  structure for its sales force to eliminate incentive pay based on the number of 
                  prescriptions generated.  Respondent enhanced its global risk assessment 
                  process, strengthened its monitoring and risk assessment tools, and increased 
                  its global compliance organization.  Respondent also enhanced its third-party 
                  oversight program, including increasing the number and scope of third-party 
                  audits, and increased training and education of employees on anti-bribery 
                  issues. 

                                         Undertakings 
                                                  
       S.      Respondent has undertaken to: 
 
               1.  Report to the Commission staff periodically, at no less than nine-month intervals 
                  during a two-year term, the status of its remediation and implementation of 
                  compliance measures.  During this two-year period, should Respondent discover 
                  credible   evidence,   not   already   reported   to   the   Commission   staff,   that 
                  questionable or corrupt payments or questionable or corrupt transfers of value 
                  may have been offered, promised, paid, or authorized by Respondent, or any 
                  entity or person acting on behalf of Respondent, or that related false books and 
                  records have been maintained, Respondent shall promptly report such conduct to 
                  the  Commission  staff.    During  this  two-year  period,  Respondent  shall:    (a) 
                  conduct  an  initial  review  and  submit  an  initial  report,  and  (b)  conduct  and 
                  prepare at least two follow-up reviews and reports, as described below: 
                   
                              i.  Respondent  shall  submit  to  the  Commission  staff  a  written 
                                 report within 180 calendar days of the entry of this Order setting 
                                 forth a complete description of its Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 
                                 (“FCPA”)  and  anti-corruption  related  remediation  efforts  to 

                                                5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                                  date, its proposals reasonably designed to improve the policies 
                                  and procedures of Respondent for ensuring compliance with the 
                                  FCPA   and   other   applicable   anticorruption   laws,   and   the 
                                  parameters of the subsequent reviews (the “Initial Report”).  The 
                                  Initial Report shall be transmitted to Charles Cain, Deputy Unit 
                                  Chief,  FCPA  Unit,  Division  of  Enforcement,  United  States 
                                  Securities    and    Exchange    Commission,    100    F    St    NE, 
                                  Washington,  DC  20549.    Respondent  may  extend  the  time 
                                  period  for  issuance  of  the  Initial  Report  with  prior  written 
                                  approval of the Commission staff. 
                                   
                              ii.  Respondent shall undertake at least two follow-up reviews, 
                                  incorporating any comments provided by the Commission staff 
                                  on the previous report, to further monitor and assess whether the 
                                  policies and procedures of Respondent are reasonably designed 
                                  to detect and prevent violations of the FCPA and other 
                                  applicable anti-corruption laws (the “Follow-up Reports”). 

                             iii.  The first Follow-up Report shall be completed by no later than 
                                  270 days after the Initial Report.  The second Follow-up Report 
                                  shall be completed by no later than 450 days after the 
                                  completion of the Initial Report.  Respondent may extend the 
                                  time period for issuance of the Follow-up Reports with prior 
                                  written approval of the Commission staff.  

                              iv.  The periodic reviews and reports submitted by Respondent will 
                                  likely     include     proprietary,     financial,     confidential,     and 
                                  competitive  business  information.    Public  disclosure  of  the 
                                  reports   could   discourage   cooperation,   impede   pending   or 
                                  potential  government  investigations  and  thus  undermine  the 
                                  objectives  of  the  reporting  requirement.  For  these  reasons, 
                                  among others, the reports and the contents thereof are intended 
                                  to remain and shall remain non-public, except (a) pursuant to 
                                  court order, (b) as agreed by the parties in writing, (c) to the 
                                  extent that the Commission staff determines in its sole discretion 
                                  that  disclosure  would  be  in  furtherance  of  the  Commission’s 
                                  discharge of its duties and responsibilities, or (d) is otherwise 
                                  required by law. 
 
               2.  Certify, in writing, compliance with the undertaking(s) set forth above.  The 
                   certification  shall  identify  the  undertaking(s),  provide  written  evidence  of 
                   compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient to 
                   demonstrate compliance.  The Commission staff may make reasonable requests 
                   for  further evidence of  compliance, and Respondent agrees to provide such 

                                                 6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                  evidence.    The  certification  and  supporting  materials  shall  be  submitted  to 
                  Charles Cain, Deputy Unit Chief, FCPA Unit, with a copy to the Office of the 
                  Chief Counsel of the Enforcement Division, no later than sixty (60) days from 
                  the date of the completion of the undertakings. 
                   
                                               IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.  Accordingly, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, it is 
hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.     Respondent cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
[15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(b)(2)(A) and 78m(b)(2)(B)]. 
 
       B.     Respondent shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money 
penalty in the amount of $20,000,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to 
the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If 
timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717.  Payment 
must be made in one of the following ways:   
 
              (1)     Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                      will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
               
              (2)     Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
               
              (3)     Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
              Enterprise Services Center 
              Accounts Receivable Branch 
              HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
              6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
              Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying GSK as a 
Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover 
letter and check or money order must be sent to Charles Cain, Division of Enforcement, Securities 
and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE, Mailstop 5631, Washington, DC 20549.   
 
       C.     Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be 
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To 
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor 

                                                7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any 
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil 
penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset").  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a 
Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting 
the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the 
Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be deemed 
an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty 
imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" means a 
private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based 
on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this 
proceeding. 
 
        D.      Respondent shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in Section III above. 
 
                    
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                      Brent J. Fields 
                                                      Secretary 

                                                 8 
