---------------------Page 1---------------------

                               UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                            Before the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 79364 / November 21, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3825 / November 21, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17691 
 
                                                    ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC   
                                                    ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE - 
                                                    AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS 
In the Matter of                                    PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 4C AND 21C 
                                                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
       PMB Helin Donovan, LLP ,                     OF 1934 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
       Christopher Bauer, CPA,                   COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
       and Jeffrey Jamieson, CPA                 
                                                                   
Respondent.                                                                          
 
 
 
 
                                                       
 
                                                 I. 
 
        The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against PMB Helin 
Donovan, LLP (“PMBHD”), Christopher Bauer (“Bauer”) and Jeffrey Jamieson (“Jamieson”) 
                                                      1
(collectively “Respondents”) pursuant to Sections 4C   and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 

                                                   
1
       Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:   
 
               The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, 
               to any person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in 
               any way, if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications 
               to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to have 
               engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully 
                                                   
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) and 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
         2
Practice.  
                                                        
                                                     II. 
 
        In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondents consent 
to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings 
Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-
and-Desist Order  (“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                                     III. 
 
                                                                                           3
        On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds            that:  
 
A.      SUMMARY 
         
        1.   This proceeding concerns improper professional conduct and violations of Commission 
and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) rules and standards that require a 
registered public accounting firm and its associated persons to be independent of the firm’s audit 

                                                                                                                                                             
                violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the 
                securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
         
2
        Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that:     
 
                The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
                appearing or practicing before it      . . . to any person who is found . . . to have 
                engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct.          
 
        Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that:    
 
                The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
                appearing or pract   icing before it . . . to any person who is found…to have 
                willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of any provision of 
                the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
3
        The findings herein are made pursuant to        Responde  nt s’ Offers of Settlement and are not 
        binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   
                                                      2 
                                                        
---------------------Page 3---------------------

client throughout the audit and professional engagement period.  As a result of failing to comply 
with partner rotation requirements, PMBHD was not independent with respect to seven issuer 
clients in connection with the 2010 through 2013 reporting periods detailed below resulting in the 
issuance of audit reports that erroneously stated PMBHD had conducted its audits in accordance 
with PCAOB standards.   
        
       2.   This proceeding also concerns the failure to conduct quarterly reviews and an annual 
audit relating to Uni-Pixel, Inc. (“UNXL”) for the year ended December 31, 2013 in accordance 
with applicable professional standards and issuance of an audit report that erroneously stated it had 
conducted its audit in accordance with PCAOB standards.   
        
B.     RESPONDENTS 
 
       3.   PMBHD is a public accounting firm that has been registered since 2003 with the 
PCAOB and is headquartered in Austin, Texas. 
        
       4.   Christopher Bauer, CPA, age 41 and a resident of Austin, Texas, is a CPA licensed 
in Texas and Colorado.  He also was a licensed CPA in Massachusetts from 2001 until his license 
expired in 2009.  Bauer served as the lead engagement partner on UNXL engagements from the 
2008 audit through the second quarter review in 2013.  He served as PMBHD’s CFO from 2011 
through 2013, the partner in charge of the firm’s Texas audit practice beginning in 2013, and then 
the firm-wide chair of the audit quality committee in 2014.  Bauer left PMBHD in October 2014. 
        
       5.   Jeffrey Jamieson, CPA, age 64 and a resident of Dallas, Texas, is a CPA licensed in 
Texas, Florida and California.  He has been the managing partner for PMBHD’s Dallas office since 
2009.  Jamieson served as the engagement quality review partner for UNXL’s 2012 audit and 2013 
first and second quarter reviews.  From the 2013 third quarter review through the 2015 audit, 
Jamieson served as the lead engagement partner for UNXL engagements. 
        
C.     RELATED INDIVIDUALS AND ENTITY 
 
       6.   Partner A, is a CPA licensed in Texas.  He joined PMBHD in 2002 and departed in 
January 2014.  At relevant times, he served as the lead engagement partner for Issuer F and as the 
engagement quality review partner for Issuer E. 
        
       7.   Partner B, is a CPA licensed in California.  He joined PMBHD in 2002 and departed 
in December 2012.  At relevant times, he served as the engagement quality review partner for 
Issuer F. 
        
       8.   Partner C, is a CPA licensed in Washington.  She joined PMBHD in 2007 and 
departed in March 2016.  At relevant times, she served as the lead engagement partner for Issuers 
D and G. 
        

                                               3 
                                                 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       9.   Partner D, is a CPA licensed in Texas.  He has been an audit partner with PMBHD 
since 2002.  At relevant times, he served as the lead engagement partner for Issuers B and C and 
the engagement quality review partner for Issuers B, C, and D. 
        
       10.  Uni-Pixel, Inc. (“UNXL”) is a Delaware Corporation originally headquartered in The 
Woodlands, Texas, and, beginning in August 2015, headquartered in Santa Clara, California.  
UNXL purports to develop and sell display and touch screen technologies.  At all relevant times, 
UNXL’s common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the 
Exchange Act and quoted on the NASDAQ.  At all relevant times, UNXL had a fiscal year ended 
on the last day of December.  On March 16, 2016, by consent, a Final Judgment was entered 
against UNXL, enjoining it from violating Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities 
Act”), Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 
12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, 13a-13 thereunder, and pay a $750,000 civil penalty, in a civil action 
entitled SEC v. Killion et. al, Civ. Act. No. 4:16-cv-00621 (S.D.Tex. Mar. 16, 2016). 
        
D.     RELEVANT ISSUERS 
 
       11.  At all relevant times, Issuer B filed reports with the Commission pursuant to Rule 
30b2-1(a) of the Investment Company Act, had a fiscal year ended on the last day of December 
and had securities that traded on the NASDAQ. 
        
       12.  At all relevant times, Issuer C filed reports with the Commission pursuant to Rule 
30b2-1(a) of the Investment Company Act, had a fiscal year ended on the last day of December 
and had securities that traded on the NASDAQ. 
        
       13.  At all relevant times, Issuer D’s common stock was registered with the Commission 
pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and traded on the OTC Market.  The issuer also had 
a fiscal year ended on the last day of December. 
        
       14.  At all relevant times, Issuer E’s common stock was registered with the Commission 
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and traded on the OTC Market.  The issuer also had 
a fiscal year ended on the last day of December. 
        
       15.  At all relevant times, Issuer F’s common stock was registered with the Commission 
pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and traded on the NASDAQ.  The issuer also had a 
fiscal year ended on the last day of March. 
        
       16.  At all relevant times, Issuer G’s common stock was registered with the Commission 
pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and traded on the OTC Market.  The issuer also had 
a fiscal year ended on the last day of December. 
        

                                               4 
                                                 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

E.     FACTS 
 
         i.  Commission Audit Partner Rotation Requirements and PCAOB Engagement 
            Quality Review Requirements 
 
       17.  Registered public accounting firms and their associated persons are required to be 
independent of their audit clients throughout the audit and professional engagement period.  
Because of the importance of an accountant’s independence to the integrity of the financial 
reporting system, the Commission has concluded that circumstances that raise questions about an 
accountant’s independence always merit heightened scrutiny.  See Amendment to Rule 102(e) of 
the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 63 Fed. Reg. 57,164 – 67; 57,168 (Oct. 26, 1998). 
        
       18.  Section 10A(j) of the Exchange Act, Audit Partner Rotation, states “it shall be 
unlawful for a registered public accounting firm to provide audit services to an issuer if the lead (or 
coordinating) audit partner (having primary responsibility for the audit) or the partner responsible 
for reviewing the audit, has performed audit services for that issuer in each of the five previous 
                           4
fiscal years of that issuer.”    
        
       19.  Rule 10A-2 of the Exchange Act, Auditor Independence, provides that it shall be 
unlawful for an auditor not to be independent with respect to, among other requirements, the 
partner rotation requirements of the Commission’s Regulation S-X.  The Commission’s 
                                                       5
independence rules allow lead and concurring partners    to ser  ve for five consecutive years, after 
which they may not serve in either role for another period of five consecutive years.  Rule 
2 - 01(c)(6)(i)(A) of Regulation S- X.   PCAOB Rule   3520, Auditor Independence, requires that a 
registered public accounting firm and its associated persons be independent of the Firm’s issuer 
audit clients throughout the audit and professional engagement period. 
        
       20.  For fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2009, Auditing Standard No. 7, 
Engagement Quality Review (“AS 7”) requires that an engagement quality review be performed on 
audits and interim reviews conducted pursuant to PCAOB standards.  AS 7, ¶ 1.  “The person who 
served as the engagement partner during either of the two audits preceding the audit subject to the 
engagement quality review may not be the engagement quality reviewer.”  (“Cooling-Off Period”).  
AS 7, ¶ 8.  In addition, the engagement quality reviewer should, among other things, review the 
engagement team’s evaluation of the firm’s independence in relation to the engagement.  AS 7, 
¶¶ 10 and 15.  When reviewing interim financial information, and / or performing an engagement 
quality review for an audit, the engagement quality reviewer may provide concurring approval of 
issuance only if, after performing with due professional care the review required by AS 7, he or she 
is not aware of a significant engagement deficiency.  Id. at ¶¶ 12 and 17.  AS 7 provides that a 

                                                 
4
       PCAOB Rule 1001(a)(vii) defines audit services in part as “professional services 
rendered for the audit of an issuer’s annual financial statements, and (if applicable) for the 
reviews of an issuer’s financial statements included in the issuer’s quarterly reports.” 
5
       See Definitions at Rule 2-01(f)(7)(ii)(A) and (B) of Regulation S-X. 
                                                  5 
                                                   
---------------------Page 6---------------------

significant engagement deficiency in a review of interim financial information exists when, among 
other things, the firm is not independent of its client.  Id. 
        
        ii.  PMBHD Violated Audit Partner Rotation Requirements and PCAOB 
            Engagement Quality Review Cooling-Off Period Requirements 
        
       21.  PMBHD failed to comply with the audit partner rotation requirements and, as a result, 
PMBHD’s independence was impaired with respect to the seven engagements described below.  
PMBHD also failed to comply with the PCAOB Engagement Quality Review Cooling-Off Period 
requirements.  In connection therewith, the firm issued audit reports erroneously stating that 
PMBHD conducted its audits in accordance with PCAOB standards. 
        

    Issuer                    Violations of Audit Partner Rotation Requirements 

UNXL            Bauer improperly served as lead engagement partner for the Q1 and Q2 2013 
                reporting periods after previously serving as lead engagement partner for the 
                preceding five fiscal periods (December 31, 2008 through December 31, 2012) 

Issuer D        Partner C improperly served as lead engagement partner for the Q1, Q2, and Q3 
                2013 reporting periods after previously serving as lead engagement partner for 
                the preceding five fiscal periods (December 31, 2008 through December 31, 
                2012); Partner D improperly served as the engagement quality review partner for 
                the 2012 and Q1 and Q2 2013 reporting periods after previously serving as the 
                concurring partner or the engagement quality review partner for the preceding 
                five fiscal periods (December 31, 2007 through December 31, 2011) 

Issuer E        Partner A improperly served as the engagement quality review partner for the Q1, 
                Q2, and Q3 2012 reporting periods after previously serving as the concurring 
                partner or the engagement quality review partner for the preceding five fiscal 
                periods (December 31, 2007 through December 31, 2011) 

Issuer F        Partner A improperly served as the lead engagement partner for the Q1 and Q2 
                fiscal 2013 reporting periods after previously serving as lead engagement partner 
                for the preceding five fiscal periods (March 31, 2008 through March 31, 2012); 
                Partner B improperly served as the engagement quality review partner for the Q1 
                and Q2 fiscal 2013 reporting periods after previously serving as the concurring 
                partner or the engagement quality review partner for the preceding five fiscal 
                periods (March 31, 2008 through March 31, 2012) 

Issuer G        Partner C  improperly served as lead engagement partner for the Q1, Q2, and Q3 
                2013 reporting periods after previously serving as lead engagement partner for 
                the preceding five fiscal periods (December 31, 2008 through December 31, 
                2012) 

 

                                               6 
                                                 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 

   Issuer        Violations of Engagement Quality Review Cooling-Off Period and Audit 
                                   Partner Rotation Requirements 

Issuer B       Partner D improperly served as the engagement quality review partner for the 
               2010 fiscal reporting periods after having previously served as lead engagement 
               partner during either of the two audits preceding the audit subject to the 
               engagement quality review –                                        
                                                                
                                                            

                        
                                                              
               
                           –                                                   
                                                       
                                               


      iii.  2013 UNXL Engagement Review and Audit Failures 
 
      22.  As detailed below, PMBHD, Bauer, and Jamieson failed to conduct UNXL’s 2013 
quarterly reviews and annual audit in accordance with PCAOB standards for two main reasons.  
First, Bauer was not independent of UNXL during the Q1 and Q2 2013 reviews of interim 
financial information because he served as lead engagement partner for the preceding five fiscal 
periods.  Jamieson, who served as engagement quality review partner for UNXL’s 2012 audit – 
and Bauer’s fifth consecutive audit – failed to identify that Bauer was not independent when 
Jamieson performed his engagement quality reviews for Q1 and Q2 2013.  Second, PMBHD, 
Bauer, and Jamieson improperly evaluated whether UNXL’s disclosures in its interim and year-
end financial statements relating to two research and development arrangements contained the 
information essential for a fair presentation of the financial statements in conformity with the 
applicable financial reporting framework.  PMBHD and Jamieson should have evaluated these 
departures from Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) in UNXL’s audited 
financial statements for fiscal 2013, and should have considered whether to modify the audit report 
based on their evaluation.   
              
          a.  PMBHD’s Independence Was Impaired For Q1 and Q2 2013  
               
      23.  As noted above, Bauer was not independent of UNXL when he served as lead 
engagement partner for the Q1 and Q2 2013 reviews because he previously functioned as lead 
engagement partner for the preceding five fiscal periods (December 31, 2008 through December 
31, 2012).  Additionally, Jamieson failed to identify that Bauer’s continuing involvement impaired 
PMBHD’s independence as a part of his engagement quality reviews of PMBHD’s Q1 and Q2 
2013 interim review engagements.  The engagement quality review partner should, among other 
things, review the engagement team’s evaluation of the firm’s independence in relation to the 

                                          7 
                                           
---------------------Page 8---------------------

engagement.  AS 7, ¶ 15.  When reviewing interim financial information, the engagement quality 
reviewer may provide concurring approval of issuance only if, after performing with due 
professional care the review required by AS 7, he or she is not aware of a significant engagement 
deficiency.  Id. at ¶ 17.  AS 7 provides that a significant engagement deficiency in a review of 
interim financial information exists when, among other things, the firm is not independent of its 
client.  Id.  Despite the impairment of PMBHD’s independence, Jamieson nonetheless provided 
concurring approval of issuance in connection with the reviews of UNXL’s Q1 and Q2 2013 
interim financial information. 
                 
            b.  UNXL’s Agreements with Dell and Intel 
                       
       24.  Effective on November 20, 2012, UNXL entered into a “preferred price and capacity 
license” agreement with Dell to introduce products to the market using the company’s purportedly 
proprietary technology (the “Dell Agreement”).  The Dell Agreement contemplated UNXL 
satisfying three potential deliverables or milestones.  At the completion of each milestone, 
contingent upon the mutual agreement of the parties, Dell would pay UNXL $5 million, for a 
potential total of $15 million.  UNXL received the first milestone payment of $5 million in March 
2013, but did not receive any additional amounts under the Dell Agreement. 
        
       25.  The Dell Agreement – a preferred price and capacity license – was the first contract of 
its kind for UNXL.  It granted Dell an exclusive license in the notebook market segment for 
UNXL’s purported technology, and the potential revenue of $15 million dwarfed not only UNXL’s 
2012 revenues of $76,000 but also the Company’s lifetime total revenue of approximately $1.67 
million. 
        
       26.  Effective March 21, 2013, UNXL entered into an agreement with Intel in connection 
with the development and production of UNXL’s purported technology (the “Intel Agreement”).  
The Intel Agreement contemplated two potential milestones requiring deliverables from UNXL.  
At the completion of each milestone, contingent upon the mutual agreement of the parties, Intel 
would pay UNXL $5 million, for a potential total of $10 million.  UNXL received an initial 
payment of $5 million in May 2013 to assist with the purchase of certain equipment, and this was 
classified as deferred revenue until completion of the first required deliverable.  UNXL never 
reached the first milestone contemplated by the Intel Agreement and did not receive any additional 
payments from Intel. 
                       
            c.   UNXL’s GAAP Required Disclosure Omissions 
 
       27.  UNXL filed with the Commission quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q on April 30, 
August 8, and November 7, 2013 and its 2013 annual report on Form 10-K on February 26, 2014.  
In each of these reports, UNXL failed to provide disclosures required under GAAP in connection 
with the Dell and Intel Agreements despite noting that it used the milestone accounting method in 
its 2013 Form 10-K. 
        

                                               8 
                                                 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

       28.  Applicable accounting standards require specific disclosures, including the terms of 
significant arrangements and a description of each milestone and related contingent consideration.  
UNXL’s lack of disclosure allowed the Company to conceal the fact that it not only missed, but 
also did not even have the capability to meet, contractually defined milestones required under both 
the Dell and Intel Agreements. 
        
       29.  Under GAAP, the Dell and Intel Agreements are research and development 
arrangements.  ASC 730-20, Research and Development Arrangements, requires the following 
disclosures: 
        
           a.  The terms of significant agreements under the research and development 
               arrangement (including royalty arrangements, purchase provisions, license 
               agreements, and commitments to provide additional funding) as of the date of each 
               balance sheet presented; and 
                
           b.  The amount of compensation earned and costs incurred under such contracts for 
               each period for which an income statement is presented. 
                
       30.  ASC 605-28, Revenue Recognition: Milestone Method, requires an entity to disclose 
the following for each arrangement that includes milestones: 
 
           a.  A description of the overall arrangement; 
                   
           b.  A description of each milestone and related contingent consideration; 
                   
           c.  A determination of whether each milestone is considered substantive;  
                   
           d.  The factors that the entity considered in determining whether the milestone or 
               milestones are substantive; and 
                
           e.  The amount of consideration recognized during the period of the milestone or 
               milestones. 
        
       31.  UNXL failed to make all of the foregoing disclosures in connection with the Dell and 
Intel Agreements until January 27, 2015 when it filed an amended Form 10-K for the 2013 
reporting period.  
        
            d.   PMBHD’s Reviews of Q1 and Q2 2013 Interim Information 
        
       32.  The objective of a review of interim financial information is to provide the accountant 
with a basis for communicating whether he or she is aware of any material modifications that 
should be made to the interim financial information for it to conform with GAAP.  A review 
consists principally of performing analytical procedures and making inquiries, and does not 
contemplate tests of accounting records, tests of controls, or performing other procedures 

                                                9 
                                                  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

ordinarily performed in an audit.  A review may bring to the accountant's attention significant 
matters affecting the interim financial information, but it does not provide assurance that the 
accountant will become aware of all significant matters that would be identified in an 
audit.  AU 722, Interim Financial Information, at .07. 
        
       33.  Accountants should make inquiries of management and perform other review 
procedures when conducting a review of interim financial information.  AU 722.18.  One example 
of a situation ordinarily requiring an accountant to inquire of management is the existence of new 
or complex revenue recognition methods.  AU 722.55.  If the accountant becomes aware of 
information that leads him or her to believe that the interim financial information may not be in 
conformity with GAAP in all material respects, the accountant should make additional inquiries or 
perform other procedures that the accountant considers appropriate to provide a basis for 
communicating whether he or she is aware of any material modifications that should be made to 
the interim financial information.  Another example is if the accountant questions whether a 
significant sales transaction is recorded in conformity with GAAP, the accountant should perform 
additional procedures, such as discussing the terms of the transaction with senior marketing and 
accounting personnel, reading the sales contract, or both, to resolve his or her 
questions.  AU 722.22. 
        
       34.  Misstatements identified by the accountant or brought to the accountant's attention, 
including inadequate disclosure, should be evaluated individually and in the aggregate to determine 
whether material modification should be made to the interim financial information for it to 
conform with GAAP.  AU 722.26.    
        
       35.  Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X states, in part, that  
        
       The interim financial information shall include disclosures either on the face of the 
       financial statements or in accompanying footnotes sufficient so as to make the 
       interim information presented not misleading.  Registrants may presume that users 
       of the interim financial information have read or have access to the audited 
       financial statements for the preceding fiscal year and that the adequacy of additional 
       disclosure needed for a fair presentation, except in regard to material contingencies, 
       may be determined in that context.  Accordingly, footnote disclosure which would 
       substantially duplicate the disclosure contained in the most recent annual report to 
       security holders or latest audited financial statements […] may be omitted. 
       However, disclosure shall be provided where events subsequent to the end of the 
       most recent fiscal year have occurred which have a material impact on the 
       registrant. 
        
       36.  When reviewing interim financial information, engagement quality reviewers should, 
among other things, evaluate the engagement team’s significant judgments in connection with the 
company’s business and recent significant activities.  AS 7, ¶ 15.  The engagement quality 
reviewer should also review the interim financial statements for all periods presented and for the 
immediately preceding interim period.  Id.  

                                                10 
                                                  
---------------------Page 11---------------------

        
       37.  As a part of PMBHD’s reviews of UNXL’s Q1 and Q2 2013 interim financial 
information, Bauer, as the lead engagement partner, and Jamieson, as the engagement quality 
review partner, were aware that UNXL had entered into material agreements with Intel and 
Dell.  Additionally, Bauer examined the agreements and discussed the company’s accounting 
treatment with UNXL’s management.  Bauer and Jamieson knew or should have known that these 
agreements were research and development agreements containing contractual milestones affecting 
revenue recognition.  Similarly, Bauer and Jamieson knew or should have known that the interim 
financial information included in UNXL’s Q1 and Q2 2013 Forms 10-Q, read in conjunction with 
the audited financial statements included in UNXL’s 2012 Form 10-K, did not contain all of the 
disclosures about these agreements that were required for the Q1 and Q2 2013 interim financial 
information to be in conformity with GAAP in all material respects. 
        
       38.  Bauer improperly evaluated the required revenue recognition disclosures in the 
financial statements included in UNXL’s Q1 and Q2 2013 Forms 10-Q.  The Dell Agreement was 
the first contract of its kind for UNXL and amounted to the most revenue ever recognized by the 
Company.  Yet, the financial statements included in UNXL’s Form 10-Q for Q1 2013 was devoid 
of any mention of the milestone method, let alone the disclosures required about the Dell 
Agreement. 
        
       39.  The Intel Agreement similarly resulted in significant operational results for UNXL and 
caused the company to recognize $5 million in deferred revenue – amounting to approximately 
76% of UNXL’s total liabilities.  UNXL’s financial statements included in its Form 10-Q for Q2 
2013 again failed to mention it was using the milestone method and did not include all of the 
required disclosures about the Intel Agreement.  
 
       40.  As engagement quality reviewer, Jamieson’s review should have included a review of 
the significant judgments of the engagement team’s review of UNXL’s most significant revenue 
transactions.  Jamieson discussed the Dell and Intel agreements with the engagement team and had 
access to all relevant facts, yet he failed to identify that the engagement team’s documentation did 
not address the engagement team’s erroneous conclusion regarding UNXL’s omission of required 
revenue recognition disclosures under GAAP.  AS 7 ¶ 16.  Similarly, when Jamieson served as the 
engagement quality reviewer for UNXL’s 2012 audit and Q1 and Q2 2013 review engagements, he 
reviewed the engagement team’s evaluation of the firm’s independence in relation to the 
engagement but failed to identify that Bauer was required to rotate off the engagement beginning 
in Q1 2013.  As a result, Jamieson, as engagement quality reviewer for PMBHD’s Q1 and Q2 2013 
engagements, improperly provided concurring approval of issuance and approved Bauer’s 
communications of the engagement conclusions to UNXL’s management and audit committee 
without objecting to UNXL’s failure to include the required revenue recognition disclosures in the 
Company’s financial statements included in its Q1 and Q2 2013 Forms 10-Q or informing them 
that PMBHD’s independence was impaired. 
        

                                              11 
                                                
---------------------Page 12---------------------

            e.   PMBHD’s Review of Q3 2013 Interim Information and 2013 Audit 
        
       41.  Jamieson, as the lead engagement partner for PMBHD’s Q3 2013 review and 2013 
audit, improperly evaluated the required revenue recognition disclosures in the financial statements 
included in UNXL’s Q3 2013 Form 10-Q and 2013 Form 10-K.  Neither filing included all of the 
required disclosures about the Dell and Intel Agreements.  
        
       42.  In connection with its audit of UNXL’s December 31, 2013 financial statements, a 
PMBHD audit manager communicated in writing to UNXL’s then-CFO, copying Jamieson, 
providing specific instructions on required disclosures about the Dell and Intel Agreements, 
including references and details about the milestone accounting method.  Most notably, the 
communication stated, in part, “We appreciate that you will want to have limited disclosures 
around the Dell contract but the disclosure still needs to fall in line with GAAP.”   
        
       43.  PMBHD’s audit documentation contained the inappropriate conclusion that UNXL’s 
financial statement disclosures complied with GAAP.  For instance, PMBHD utilized a 
standardized disclosure checklist to review UNXL’s primary disclosure requirements under 
GAAP.  In the workpaper section relating to “Revenue Recognition – Special Areas,” the 
workpaper indicated that all of the relevant disclosures relating to “Milestone Method Related to 
Research and Development” had been made despite, in the starkest example, UNXL not disclosing 
a “description of each milestone and related contingent consideration” for either the Dell or Intel 
Agreements. 
        
       44.  In another instance, PMBHD’s 2013 audit revenue recognition memorandum properly 
identified ASC 730-20 and ASC 605-28 as the applicable accounting standards for the Dell and 
Intel Agreements but improperly concluded that the filed disclosures complied with GAAP. 
          
       iv.  PMBHD’s Audit Reports Did Not Comply With PCAOB Standards and Thus 
            Violated Rule 2-02 of Regulation S-X 
                 
       45.  Under AU 508, Reports on Audited Financial Statements, an auditor may only issue 
an unqualified opinion on historical financial statements when the auditor has formed such an 
opinion on the basis of an audit performed in accordance with PCAOB standards.  AU 508.07.  
Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X requires an accountant’s report to state whether the audit was 
made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.  “[R]eferences in Commission 
rules and staff guidance and in the federal securities laws to GAAS or to specific standards under 
GAAS, as they relate to issuers, should be understood to mean the standards of the PCAOB plus 
any applicable rules of the Commission.”  Commission Guidance Regarding the Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board’s Auditing and Related Professional Practice Standard No. 1, Rel. 
No. 34-49708 (May 14, 2004).  Thus, an auditor violates Regulation S-X Rule 2-02(b)(1) if it 
issues a report stating that it had conducted its audit in accordance with PCAOB standards when it 
had not.  See In re Andrew Sims, CPA, Rel. No. 34-59584, AAER No. 2950 (Mar. 17, 2009). 
        

                                              12 
                                                 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

       46.  As described above, PMBHD’s violations of the partner rotation requirements resulted 
in the firm not being independent with respect to seven issuer audit clients for the 2010 through 
2013 reporting periods.  As a result, PMBHD should therefore not have issued audit reports 
asserting that PMBHD had conducted its audits in accordance with PCAOB standards for the 
periods in which it was not independent.   
        
       47.  As described above, PMBHD improperly evaluated the required revenue recognition 
disclosures in the financial statements included in UNXL’s 2013 Form 10-K.  PMBHD should 
therefore not have issued an audit report asserting that PMBHD had conducted its audit of UNXL’s 
2013 financial statements in accordance with PCAOB standards and that UNXL’s 2013 financial 
statements were presented fairly, in all material respects.   
        
        v.  PMBHD Failed to Exercise Due Professional Care and Professional Skepticism 
                  
       48.  PCAOB standards require that “[d]ue professional care is to be exercised in the 
performance of the audit and the preparation of the report.”  AU 150, Generally Accepted Auditing 
Standards, at .02; AU 722.01 (noting the three general standards discussed in AU 150 are 
applicable to a review of interim financial information).  Additionally, “[d]ue professional care 
requires the auditor to exercise professional skepticism.  Professional skepticism is an attitude that 
includes a questioning mind and a critical assessment of audit evidence.  The auditor uses the 
knowledge, skill, and ability called for by the profession of public accounting to diligently 
perform, in good faith and with integrity, the gathering and objective evaluation of evidence.” AU 
230, Due Professional Care in the Performance of Work, at .07.  Furthermore, “[i]n exercising 
professional skepticism, the auditor should not be satisfied with less than persuasive evidence 
because of a belief that management is honest.”  AU 230.09.   
 
       49.  PMBHD failed to act with due professional care because the firm repeatedly failed to 
comply with partner rotation requirements resulting in the firm not being independent with respect 
to seven issuer clients for the 2009 through 2013 reporting periods.  Bauer and Jamieson failed to 
act with due professional care in connection with the firm not being independent with respect to 
UNXL’s Q1 and Q2 2013 review engagements.  Bauer and Jamieson also failed to act with due 
professional care by improperly evaluating the required revenue recognition disclosures relating to 
the Dell and Intel Agreements despite the significance of the agreements to the issuer and 
identification of the applicable accounting standards.  PMBHD, Bauer, and Jamieson should have 
addressed these departures from GAAP in UNXL’s audited financial statements by modification of 
the audit opinion.  Auditing Standard No.  14, Evaluating Audit Results, ¶ 31; AU 508, Reports on 
Audited Financial Statements, .20 and .41. 
 

                                               13 
                                                  
---------------------Page 14---------------------

F.     VIOLATIONS 
        
                                                                          6
       50.  As a result of the conduct described above, PMBHD willfully     violated, and Bauer and 
Jamieson willfully aided and abetted PMBHD’s violations of, Section 10A(j) of the Exchange Act 
and Rule 10A-2 thereunder which makes it unlawful for an auditor not to be independent with 
respect to, among other requirements, the partner rotation requirements. 
        
       51.  As a result of the conduct described above, PMBHD violated, and Bauer and Jamieson 
willfully aided and abetted PMBHD’s violations of, Rule 2-02 of Regulation S-X which requires 
an accountant’s report to state whether the audit was made in accordance with generally accepted 
auditing standards. 
        
       52.  As a result of the conduct described above, PMBHD, Bauer, and Jamieson caused 
issuers to violate Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 thereunder which require 
every issuer of a security registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act file with the 
Commission periodic reports as the Commission may require.  The obligation to file such reports 
embodies the requirement that they be true and correct.  PMBHD authorized issuers to include 
audit reports that falsely stated that the audits had been conducted in accordance with PCAOB 
standards.  Similarly, PMBHD, Bauer, and Jamieson caused issuers to violate Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 13a-13 thereunder when the issuers failed to include in their Forms 10-Q 
interim financial statements that had been reviewed in accordance with PCAOB standards. 
        
G.     FINDINGS 
 
       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that: 
        
       a.      PMBHD, Bauer, and Jamieson engaged in improper professional conduct pursuant 
to Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice;  
 
       b.      PMBHD (i) willfully violated Section 10A(j) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10A-2 
thereunder, and Rule 2-02 of Regulation S-X; and (ii) caused issuers to violate Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder; 
 
       c.      Bauer (i) willfully aided and abetted PMBHD’s violations of Section 10A(j) of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 10A-2 thereunder, and Rule 2-02 of Regulation S-X; and (ii) caused 
issuers to violate Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder; and 
 

                                                 
6
 A finding of willfulness does not require intent to violate, but merely intent to do the act which 
constitutes a violation.  SEC v. K.W. Brown & Co., 555 F. Supp. 2d 1275, 1309 (S.D. Fla.2007), 
citing Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 413-15 (D.C. Cir. 2000); SEC v. Steadman, 603 F.2d 
1126, 1135 (5th Cir. 1979); Arthur Lipper Corp. v. SEC, 547 F.2d 171, 180 (2d Cir. 1976). 
                                                14 
                                                  
---------------------Page 15---------------------

       d.     Jamieson (i) willfully aided and abetted PMBHD’s violations of Section 10A(j) of 
the Exchange Act and Rule 10A-2 thereunder, and Rule 2-02 of Regulation S-X; and (ii) caused 
issuers to violate Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder. 
 
H.     REMEDIAL EFFORTS 
        
       In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts undertaken by 
PMBHD. 
        
I.      UNDERTAKINGS 
 
       Respondent PMBHD undertakes: 
 
       a.  to retain, within 60 days of the date of the Order, at its own expense, the services of an 
           Independent Consultant not unacceptable to the Division of Enforcement of the 
           Commission (“Division of Enforcement”), to review PMBHD’s written policies and 
           procedures concerning (i) audit client acceptance, (ii) audit partner and engagement 
           quality review partner assignment, and (iii) auditor independence including audit 
           partner and engagement quality review partner rotation; 
         
       b.  to require the Independent Consultant, at the conclusion of the review, which shall be 
           no more than 120 days after the entry of the Order, to submit a Report of the 
           Independent Consultant to PMBHD and the Division of Enforcement.  The report shall 
           address the issues described above and shall include a description of the review 
           performed, the conclusions reached, the Independent Consultant’s recommendations 
           for changes or improvements to the policies, procedures and practices of PMBHD and 
           a procedure for implementing the recommended changes or improvements to such 
           policies, procedures, and practices to provide reasonable assurance that PMBHD’s 
           audits are conducted in compliance with (i) the relevant Commission’s regulations and 
           (ii) auditing standards relevant to appearing and practicing before the Commission; 
 
       c.   to adopt, implement, and thereafter maintain all policies, procedures, and practices 
           recommended in the Report of the Independent Consultant within 180 days from the 
           date of the entry of the Order; provided however, that within 150 days from the date of 
           the entry of the Order, PMBHD will in writing advise the Independent Consultant and 
           the Division of Enforcement of any recommendations that it considers to be 
           unnecessary or inappropriate.  With respect to any such recommendation, PMBHD 
           need not adopt that recommendation at that time but will propose in writing an 
           alternative policy, procedure, or system designed to achieve the same objective or 
           purpose.  As to any of the Independent Consultant’s recommendations about which 
           PMBHD and the Independent Consultant do not agree, such parties shall attempt in 
           good faith to reach agreement within 180 days of the date of the entry of the Order.  In 
           the event that PMBHD and the Independent Consultant are unable to agree on an 
           alternative proposal, PMBHD will abide by the determinations of the Independent 

                                               15 
                                                 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

           Consultant and adopt those recommendations deemed appropriate by the Independent 
           Consultant; 
         
       d.  to cooperate fully with the Independent Consultant in its review, including making such 
           information and documents available as the Independent Consultant may reasonably 
           request, and by permitting and requiring PMBHD’s employees and agents to supply 
           such information and documents as the Independent Consultant may reasonably 
           request; 
         
       e.   that, in order to ensure the independence of the Independent Consultant, PMBHD 
           (i) shall not have the authority to terminate the Independent Consultant without prior 
           written approval of the Division of Enforcement; and (ii) shall compensate the 
           Independent Consultant, and persons engaged to assist the Independent Consultant, for 
           services rendered pursuant to the Order at their reasonable and customary rates; 
         
       f.   to require the Independent Consultant to enter into an agreement that provides that, for 
           the period of engagement and for a period of two years from completion of the 
           engagement, the Independent Consultant shall not enter into any employment, 
           consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with PMBHD, or 
           any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in 
           their capacity as such. The agreement will also provide that the Independent Consultant 
           will require that any firm with which he/she is affiliated or of which he/she is a 
           member, and any person engaged to assist the Independent Consultant in performance 
           of his/her duties under this Order shall not, without prior written consent of the 
           Division of Enforcement’s Fort Worth office, enter into any employment, consultant, 
           attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with PMBHD, or any of its 
           present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their 
           capacity as such for the period of the engagement and for a period of two years after the 
           engagement; and 
  
       g.   to certify, in writing, compliance with the undertaking(s) set forth above. The 
           certification shall identify the undertaking(s), provide written evidence of compliance 
           in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient to demonstrate 
           compliance. The Commission staff may make reasonable requests for further evidence 
           of compliance, and Respondent agrees to provide such evidence.  The certification and 
           supporting material shall be submitted to David L. Peavler, Associate Regional 
           Director, with a copy to the Office of Chief Counsel of the Division of Enforcement, no 
           later than sixty (60) days from the date of the completion of the undertakings. 
         
       h.   For good cause shown and upon timely application by the Independent Consultant or 
           PMBHD, the Commission’s staff may extend any of the deadlines set forth above. 
 

                                                16 
                                                  
---------------------Page 17---------------------

                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.     Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, PMBHD, Bauer and Jamieson shall 
cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 
10A(j) and 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10A-2, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder, and Rule 2-
02 of Regulation S-X. 
 
       B.     Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the Exchange Act and Rules 102(e)(1)(ii) and 
(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice PMBHD is censured. 
        
       C.     PMBHD shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in Section III.I. above. 
        
       D.     PMBHD shall, within 14 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money penalty 
in the amount of $160,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general 
fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  If timely payment 
is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717. 
        
       E.     Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the Exchange Act and Rules 102(e)(1)(ii) and 
(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Bauer is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing 
before the Commission as an accountant. 
        
               1.      After one year from the date of this order, Bauer may request that the 
       Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of 
       the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
 
                      a.  a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
                          review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with 
                          the Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                          Bauer’s work in his practice before the Commission will be reviewed 
                          either by the independent audit committee of the public company for 
                          which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he 
                          practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
                      b.  an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
                          Commission that: 
      
                          (1) Bauer, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
                              registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley 
                              Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                                               17 
                                                  
---------------------Page 18---------------------

 
                          (2) Bauer, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
                              associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB and that inspection 
                              did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the Bauer’s 
                              or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that the 
                              Bauer will not receive appropriate supervision; 
 
                          (3) Bauer has resolved all disciplinary issues with the PCAOB, and has 
                              complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by 
                              the PCAOB (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                          (4) Bauer acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Bauer appears or 
                              practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
                              comply with all requirements of the Commission and the PCAOB, 
                              including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, 
                              inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
                              standards. 
        
               2.      The Commission will consider an application by Bauer to resume appearing 
       or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he 
       has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  
       However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the 
       Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review 
       may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters 
       relating to Bauer’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or 
       practice before the Commission. 
        
       F.     Bauer shall pay civil penalties in the amount of $15,000 to the Securities and 
Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to 
Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  Payment shall be made in the following installments: 
        
               a.  $5,000 within 14 days of the entry of this Order; 
               b.  $5,000 within 365 days of the entry of this Order; and 
               c.  $5,000 within 729 days of the entry of this Order. 
                    
If any payment is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire outstanding 
balance of civil penalties, plus any additional interest accrued pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717 shall be 
due and payable immediately, without further application. 
        
       G.     Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the Exchange Act and Rules 102(e)(1)(ii) and 
(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Jamieson is denied the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before the Commission as an accountant. 
        

                                                18 
                                                  
---------------------Page 19---------------------

               1.      After one year from the date of this order, Jamieson may request that the 
       Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of 
       the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
 
                      a.  a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
                          review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with 
                          the Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                          Jamieson’s work in his practice before the Commission will be 
                          reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public 
                          company for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as 
                          long as he practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
                      b.  an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
                          Commission that: 
      
                              (1) Jamieson, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
                                  associated, is registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the 
                                  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to 
                                  be effective; 
 
                              (2) Jamieson, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
                                  is associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB and that 
                                  inspection did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects 
                                  in the Jamieson’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
                                  indicate that the Jamieson will not receive appropriate 
                                  supervision; 
 
                              (3) Jamieson has resolved all disciplinary issues with the PCAOB, 
                                  and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions 
                                  imposed by the PCAOB (other than reinstatement by the 
                                  Commission); and 
 
                              (4) Jamieson acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Jamieson 
                                  appears or practices before the Commission as an independent 
                                  accountant, to comply with all requirements of the Commission 
                                  and the PCAOB, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
                                  relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews 
                                  and quality control standards. 
        
               2.      The Commission will consider an application by Jamieson to resume 
       appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
       current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
       accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
       Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 

                                                19 
                                                  
---------------------Page 20---------------------

       Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
       above, any other matters relating to Jamieson’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
       or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
        
       H.     Jamieson shall pay civil penalties in the amount of $15,000 to the Securities and 
Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to 
Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  Payment shall be made in the following installments: 
        
               a.  $5,000 within 14 days of the entry of this Order; 
               b.  $5,000 within 365 days of the entry of this Order; and 
               c.  $5,000 within 729 days of the entry of this Order. 
                   
If any payment is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire outstanding 
balance of civil penalties, plus any additional interest accrued pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717 shall be 
due and payable immediately, without further application. 
 
       I.      Payment must be made in one of the following ways:   
 
               (1)    Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                      will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
                
               (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
                
               (3)     Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
                      Enterprise Services Center 
                      Accounts Receivable Branch 
                      HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                      6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                      Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying PMBHD, 
Bauer or Jamieson as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; 
a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to David Peavler, Division of 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 801 Cherry Street, Suite 1900, Fort Worth, 
TX 76102.   
        
       J.      Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be 
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To 
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that in any Related Investor 
Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or reduction of 

                                                20 
                                                  
---------------------Page 21---------------------

any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil 
penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”).  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a 
Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that they shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order 
granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount of 
the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be 
deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil 
penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” 
means a private damages action brought against Respondents by or on behalf of one or more 
investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the 
Commission in this proceeding. 
         
                                                V. 
 
       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by 
Bauer and Jamieson, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or 
other amounts due by Bauer or Jamieson under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent 
order, decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the 
violation by Bauer or Jamieson of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued 
under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 

 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                     Brent J. Fields 
                                                     Secretary 
 
 
 

                                                21 
                                                   
