---------------------Page 1---------------------

                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                           Before the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 70579 / September 30, 2013 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3504 / September 30, 2013 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15544 
 
                                               ORDER INSTITUTING 
In the Matter of                               ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE -
                                               AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS  AND 
       CHINA RUITAI                            NOTICE OF HEARING PURSUANT 
       INTERNATIONAL                           TO SECTIONS 4C AND  21C OF THE 
       HOLDINGS CO., LTD.,                     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 
       DIAN MIN MA, GANG                       1934 AND RULE 102(E) OF THE 
       MA, AND JIN TIAN,                  COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                          
Respondents.  
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
                                            I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate 
and in the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, 
                                                1
and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act 
                                                                                       2
of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice  

                                                 
1
  Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
       The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the 
privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . (1) not to 
possess the requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to 
have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully violated, or willfully 
aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
2
  Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

against China Ruitai International Holdings Co., Ltd. (“China Ruitai”), Dian Min Ma, 
Gang Ma, Jin Tian (collectively “Respondents”). 
                                                
                                              II. 
                                                
       After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that: 
                                                
       A.      RESPONDENTS 
 
               1.      Respondent China Ruitai, incorporated in Delaware in 1955 and 
located in the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”), is a manufacturer of deeply processed 
chemicals used primarily in the production of PVC, cosmetics, foods, and paints.  At all 
relevant times, China Ruitai’s common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant 
to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and is quoted on OTC Link operated by OTC Markets 
Group, Inc. and formerly known as the Pink Sheets (“OTC Link”) under the ticker symbol 
“CRUI.” 
         
               2.      Respondent Dian Min Ma, age 46, resides in the PRC and has been a 
Director and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) of China Ruitai since 2007.  Dian Min Ma, 
along with Xing Fu Lu, the President of China Ruitai, owns 100% of the capital stock of 
Shandong Ruitai Chemical Co., Ltd., a related party to China Ruitai.  Dian Min Ma also 
serves as the Finance Manager for Taian Ruitai Cellulose Co., Ltd., a majority-owned (99%) 
subsidiary of China Ruitai. 
        
               3.      Respondent Gang Ma, age 40, resides in the PRC and has been Chief 
Financial Officer (“CFO”) of China Ruitai since 2007.  Gang Ma is also the Director of the 
Financial Department for Taian Ruitai Cellulose Co., Ltd. 
        
               4.      Respondent Jin Tian, age 38, resides in the PRC and has been a 
Director and Chief Accounting Officer (“CAO”) of China Ruitai since 2007.  Jin Tian is 
also an accountant for Taian Ruitai Cellulose Co., Ltd. 
        
       B.      RELATED ENTITIES 
 
               1.      Taian Ruitai Cellulose Co., Ltd. (“Taian Ruitai”), located in the PRC, 
is a majority-owned (99%) subsidiary of China Ruitai and is the operational subsidiary of 
China Ruitai. 
 
               2.      Shandong Ruitai Chemical Co., Ltd. (“Shandong Ruitai”), located in 
the PRC, is a related party to China Ruitai and holds 1% of the capital stock of Taian Ruitai.  
Shandong Ruitai is 100% owned by Dian Min Ma and Xing Fu Lu, the President of China 
Ruitai.  Shandong Ruitai is a dealer of hot steam, which it sells to Taian Ruitai. 

                                                                                                                                                 
       The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before it . . . to any person who is found…to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and 
abetted the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 

                                              2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
       C.      FRAUDULENT AND ILLEGAL ACTIVITY 
 
               1.     From approximately January to December 2011, Respondents 
orchestrated a scheme to fraudulently obtain up to $40 million in bank financing using 
falsified documents.  China Ruitai, through its subsidiary, Taian Ruitai, falsified purchase 
orders to purchase steam from Shandong Ruitai.  Aided by the cooperation of Shandong 
Ruitai, Taian Ruitai obtained invoices from Shandong Ruitai for the fake purchase orders.  
Taian Ruitai then presented the fake invoices and purchase orders to various banks to 
obtain bank acceptance notes.  Per the terms of the acceptance notes, China Ruitai 
deposited between 30% and 100% of the invoice amount with the bank, and the bank paid 
the stated invoice amount to Shandong Ruitai.  The amounts that China Ruitai placed on 
deposit with the banks were held in reserve until China Ruitai repaid the bank acceptance 
notes. 
        
               2.     After Shandong Ruitai received funds from the banks, Shandong 
Ruitai typically provided the funds to Taian Ruitai to be used as operating capital.  At other 
times, Shandong Ruitai retained a portion of the funds for its own operational needs.  In 
either scenario, the scheme was effectuated by the efforts of China Ruitai as the creditor 
with the banks and the originator of the purchase orders. 
        
               3.     During the time period of the scheme, China Ruitai filed Forms 10-
Q for the periods ended March 31, 2011, June 30, 2011, and September 30, 2011, and a 
Form 10-Q/A for the period ended June 30, 2011.  In each of the Forms 10-Q and Form 10-
Q/A, China Ruitai failed to make the disclosures of China Ruitai’s obligations to the banks, 
the scheme China Ruitai was utilizing to provide working capital, and the risks associated 
with the ongoing scheme.  As a result of the scheme, China Ruitai’s related party 
obligations to Shandong Ruitai increased over 1600% from December 31, 2010 to 
December 31, 2011.  As of September 30, 2011, these obligations represented over 36% of 
China Ruitai’s liabilities.  The failure to disclose the obligations to the bank and the nature 
of the activity to obtain bank financing materially misrepresented the actual operations, 
obligations, solvency, and liquidity of China Ruitai.  The misstatements made it appear that 
China Ruitai was meeting its working capital requirements with cash flows generated from 
business activities, rather than financing from banks.  In its footnotes to the financial 
statements, China Ruitai described the resulting obligations as only related party notes 
payable that were “non-interest bearing for the purpose of financing the Company’s 
operations due to a lack of working capital and have no fixed terms of repayment.”  These 
statements were false and materially misleading because they failed to disclose the nature 
and terms of the obligations to the banks.  Furthermore, the loans could result in 
undisclosed risk to the company, especially if the illegal nature of the loans was challenged 
or exposed by the banks, regulators, or others. 
        
               4.      Dian Min Ma and Gang Ma each signed China Ruitai’s periodic 
reports filed with the Commission for the first three quarters of 2011.  In addition, Dian 
Min Ma and Gang Ma each signed certifications for the quarterly reports.  Those filings 
incorrectly state that the reports did not “contain any untrue statement of a material fact or 

                                             3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the 
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the 
period covered by this report.”  The statements and representations in China Ruitai’s filings 
were materially misleading.   
        
               5.     Dian Min Ma, Gang Ma, and Jin Tian facilitated China Ruitai’s 
violations by perpetuating the illegal scheme and directly and indirectly filing or causing to 
be filed with the Commission quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-Q/A that were 
inaccurate and materially misleading.  CEO, Dian Min Ma, and CFO, Gang Ma signed 
certifications for those reports and attested to their accuracy.  These were blatant 
misrepresentations because Dian Min Ma, Gang Ma, and Jin Tian knew or were reckless in 
not knowing that the bank financing transactions were illegal and that China Ruitai failed to 
disclose its obligations to the banks.  China Ruitai could not have continued its scheme 
without the substantial assistance of the officers.  The officers’ fraudulent conduct is 
imputable to China Ruitai. 
        
               6.     During fiscal year 2011, China Ruitai retained the independent 
registered public accounting firm of Marcum Bernstein & Pinchuk LLP (“Marcum”), a 
New York CPA firm with offices in the PRC.  Marcum performed the review procedures 
for each of the first three quarters of 2011.  In each of these quarters, China Ruitai provided 
to Marcum management representation letters signed by Dian Min Ma, Gang Ma, and Jin 
Tian.  The representation letters included materially misleading statements that:  (1)  
management had no knowledge of any fraud; (2) all related party transactions had been 
properly disclosed; and (3) there had been no violations of laws.  These statements were 
materially misleading because China Ruitai’s scheme was a violation of PRC laws, and the 
description of the related party obligations misrepresented the true nature of the activity.  
Because of their management positions as CEO, CFO, and CAO respectively, Dian Min 
Ma, Gang Ma, and Jin Tian knew or were reckless in not knowing the true nature of the 
transactions and that the financing was obtained fraudulently and illegally.  They knew or 
were reckless in not knowing that the material misrepresentations would be incorporated 
into China Ruitai’s public filings and that the public filings materially misrepresented the 
true nature of the transactions. 
        
               7.     Marcum also performed audit procedures for fiscal year end in 
preparation for filing of China Ruitai’s Form 10-K.  As part of these audit procedures, 
Marcum performed substantive and analytical procedures on the related party balances 
between Taian Ruitai and Shandong Ruitai.  Marcum made repeated inquiries regarding the 
related party balances from employees of China Ruitai, but the employees were 
uncooperative.  Despite the lack of cooperation, Marcum identified at least $66.7 million in 
potentially fake purchase orders.  When confronted with this information, Gang Ma 
admitted that the purchase orders and corresponding invoices between Shandong Ruitai 
and Taian Ruitai were fictitious.   
 
               8.     As a result of its discovery, Marcum demanded that China Ruitai 
obtain a legal opinion regarding the legality of the above-described conduct in relation to 
PRC law.  China Ruitai obtained a legal opinion, dated April 12, 2012, which concluded 

                                            4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

that the conduct violated Article 10 of the Negotiable Instruments Law.  Marcum obtained 
a separate legal opinion, which came to the same conclusion. 
 
               9.     As a result of its discovery and the legal opinions it obtained, 
Marcum reported the matter to China Ruitai’s Board of Directors on May 21, 2012, 
pursuant to Section 10A(b)(1) of the Exchange Act, which requires the auditor to inform 
management that it has information indicating an illegal act has or may have occurred.  
Dian Min Ma, Gang Ma, and Jin Tian all received the letter.  China Ruitai failed to take 
any remedial action in response to the letter. 
 
               10.    On July 25, 2012, Marcum issued a notice to China Ruitai, pursuant 
to Section 10A(b)(2) of the Exchange Act, indicating an illegal act had occurred and that 
failure of the company to take remedial action would warrant resignation of Marcum as the 
independent registered public accountants of China Ruitai.  Furthermore, the notice 
informed China Ruitai that China Ruitai was required to notify the Commission no later 
than one business day after it received Marcum’s report, pursuant to Section 10A(b)(3) of 
the Exchange Act. 
 
               11.    China Ruitai failed to report the matter to the Commission.  
Therefore, on July 27, 2012, Marcum issued a letter pursuant to Section 10A(b)(3) of the 
Exchange Act to both China Ruitai and the Commission.  That letter provided notice to 
company management that Marcum was resigning from the audit engagement, effective 
immediately.  The July 27, 2012 notice also informed China Ruitai that Marcum no longer 
wished to be associated with the Forms 10-Q for the periods ended March 31, 2011, June 
30, 2011, and September 30, 2011.  The letter further requested that the company file a 
Form 8-K disclosing to the SEC and users of the quarterly reports that Marcum should no 
longer be associated with the quarterly reports, and that such financial statements were “not 
reviewed.” 
 
               12.    To this date, China Ruitai has not complied with its obligation to 
report the matter to the Commission pursuant to Section 10A(b)(3) of the Exchange Act.  
China Ruitai failed to respond to Marcum’s requests and cut off contact with Marcum.  In 
addition, China Ruitai did not file a Form 8-K to announce the resignation of its auditor, as 
required by Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Item 4.01 to Form 8-K 
 
               13.    Since Marcum resigned as China Ruitai’s auditor, China Ruitai has 
failed to file its required periodic reports.  China Ruitai’s last filing was a Form NT 10-K, 
filed on March 30, 2012.  China Ruitai’s last periodic report filed with the Commission was 
for the period ending September 30, 2011 and was filed on November 14, 2011.  As a 
result, China Ruitai is delinquent with at least its 2011 and 2012 Forms 10-K, as well as 
Forms 10-Q for 2012 and 2013.   
 
       D.      VIOLATIONS 
        
               1.     As a result of the conduct described above, China Ruitai and Dian 
Min Ma violated, and Gang Ma willfully violated, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and 

                                            5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in connection with the purchase 
or sale of securities. 
        
               2.     As a result of the conduct described above, Jin Tian willfully 
violated Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5(a) and (c) thereunder and aided 
and abetted and caused China Ruitai’s violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and 
Rule 10b-5(b) thereunder. 
        
               3.     As a result of the conduct described above, China Ruitai violated 
Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5 and 12b-20 thereunder by including 
materially false and misleading information in filings that misrepresented the true nature of 
obligations to banks and by misrepresenting that the obligations were related party 
transactions in its quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q and Form 10-Q/A for the first three 
quarters of 2011. 
        
               4.     As a result of the conduct described above, China Ruitai violated 
Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 
thereunder, which require that an issuer with securities registered under Section 12 of the 
Exchange Act file annual, quarterly, and current reports with the Commission. 
 
               5.     As a result of the conduct described above, Dian Min Ma caused, 
and Gang Ma and Jin Tian willfully aided and abetted and caused China Ruitai’s violations 
of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 
thereunder. 
 
               6.     As a result of the conduct described above, Dian Min Ma violated, 
and Gang Ma willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 13a-14, which requires that the 
principal executive and principal financial officers of an issuer with securities registered 
under Section 12 of the Exchange Act sign a certification that, based on their knowledge, 
the annual and quarterly reports filed with the Commission do not contain any untrue 
statement of material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements 
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not 
misleading. 
 
               7.     As a result of the conduct described above, China Ruitai violated 
Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, which requires that an issuer with securities 
registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act make and keep books, records, and 
accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the issuer. 
 
               8.     As a result of the conduct described above, Dian Min Ma caused, 
and Gang Ma and Jin Tian willfully aided and abetted and caused China Ruitai’s violations 
of Section 13(b)(2)(A)  of the Exchange Act, and Dian Min Ma violated, and Gang Ma and 
Jin Tian willfully violated Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1, which prohibits a person from 
directly or indirectly, falsifying or causing to be falsified, any book, record or account 
subject to Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act; and Exchange Act Rule 13b2-2(a), 

                                             6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

which prohibits an officer or director of an issuer with securities registered under Section 
12 of the Exchange Act to make or cause to be made a materially false or misleading 
statement to an accountant in connection with the preparation or filing of any document or 
report required to be filed with the Commission. 
 
               9.     As a result of the conduct described above, China Ruitai violated 
Section 10A(b)(3), which requires an issuer with securities registered under Section 12 of 
the Exchange Act, to notify the Commission that the issuer has received from its auditor a 
report pursuant to Section 10A(b)(2) of the Exchange Act indicating that illegal acts have 
been detected within one business day of the receipt of such report. 
                                              
                                            III. 
        
       In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement, the Commission 
deems it necessary and appropriate in the public interest that public administrative and 
cease-and-desist proceedings be instituted to determine: 
        
       A.      Whether the allegations set forth in Section II hereof are true and, in 
connection therewith, to afford Respondents an opportunity to establish any defenses to such 
allegations;  
        
       B.      What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against 
Respondents pursuant to Section 21B of the Exchange Act including, but not limited to, 
disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and civil penalties pursuant to Section 21B of the 
Exchange Act;  
        
       C.      Whether, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent China 
Ruitai should be ordered to cease and desist from committing or causing violations of and 
any future violations of Sections 10(b), 10A(b)(3), 13(a), and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange 
Act and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13, thereunder. 
        
       D.      Whether, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent Dian 
Min Ma should be ordered to cease and desist from committing or causing violations of and 
any future violations of Sections 10(b), 13(a), and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and 
Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, 13a-13, 13a-14, 13b2-1, and 13b2-2(a)thereunder. 
        
       E.      Whether, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent Gang 
Ma should be ordered to cease and desist from committing or causing violations of and any 
future violations of Sections 10(b), 13(a), and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules 
10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, 13a-13, 13a-14, 13b2-1, and 13b2-2(a) thereunder. 
 
       G.      Whether, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent Jin Tian 
should be ordered to cease and desist from committing or causing violations of and any 
future violations of Sections 10(b), 13(a), and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules 
10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, 13a-13, 13b2-1, and 13b2-2(a) thereunder. 

                                             7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

       H.      Whether, pursuant to Section 21C(f) of the Exchange Act, Respondents Dian 
Min Ma, Gang Ma, and Jin Tian should be prohibited, conditionally or unconditionally, and 
permanently or for such period of time as it shall determine, from acting as an officer or 
director of any issuer that has a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the 
Exchange Act, or that is required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange 
Act. 
        
       I.      Whether, pursuant to Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Respondents Gang Ma and Jin Tian should be 
denied, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant. 
                                               
                                            IV. 
        
       IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the 
questions set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened not earlier than 30 days and not 
later than 60 days from service of this Order at a time and place to be fixed, and before an 
Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the 
Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.110. 
        
       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents shall file an Answer to the 
allegations contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as 
provided by Rule 220 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220.  
        
       If Respondents fail to file the directed answer, or fail to appear at a hearing after 
being duly notified, the Respondents may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be 
determined against them upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be 
deemed to be true as provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of the Commission's 
Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. §§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f), and 201.310. 
        
       This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondents personally or by certified 
mail or in accordance with the Hague Service Convention. 
        
       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an 
initial decision no later than 300 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to 
Rule 360(a)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
        
       In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission 
engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually 
related proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter,  
                               

                                             8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

except as witness or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice.  Since this proceeding is 
not “rule making” within the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it 
is not deemed subject to the provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any 
final Commission action. 
        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                              Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                              Secretary 
  
 
 
 
 

                                              9 
