---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 79004 / September 30, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3809 / September 30, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17605 
 
                                              
In the Matter of                             ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE -AND-
                                             DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
      D’Arelli Pruzansky, P.A.,              SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
      Joseph D’Arelli, CPA, and             EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING 
                                           FINDINGS, AND I MPOSING A CEASE -
                                             AND-DESIST ORDER   
Respondent s. 
 
       
                                            I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against D’Arelli Pruzansky, P.A. (“Pruzansky, P.A.”), 
Joseph D’Arelli, CPA (“D’Arelli”), and Mitchell J. Pruzansky, CPA (“Pruzansky”) (collectively, 
“Respondents”).   
                                             
                                           II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondents consent 
to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   

 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
                                                III. 
 
                                                                                  1
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds     that:    
 
                                           SUMMARY 
 
       This matter involves violations of the auditor independence rules arising from the failure by 
D’Arelli Pruzansky, P.A. and its two founding partners, Joseph D’Arelli and Mitchell J. Pruzansky, 
to comply with audit partner rotation requirements during the course of their engagement as the 
independent auditor for five reporting company clients with securities registered with the 
Commission under Section 12 of the Exchange Act (collectively, the “issuer clients”).  
Specifically, in 2014 and 2015, D’Arelli and Pruzansky failed to rotate off the audit engagements 
after serving as lead audit partners for five consecutive fiscal years.  As a result, the Respondents 
were not independent with respect to the interim review services they provided the issuer clients.  
These failures caused the issuer clients to file quarterly reports with the Commission that were not 
reviewed by an independent public accountant as required by Regulation S-X of the Exchange Act.   
 
                                        RESPONDENTS 
                                                   
       1.      D’Arelli Pruzansky, P.A., f/k/a Gold Coast Audit & Tax, P.A., f/k/a Pruzansky & 
Company P.A., f/k/a Mitchell J. Pruzansky, CPA, P.A. (“D’Arelli Pruzansky”, (“Pruzansky, P.A.” 
or the “Firm”) is an accounting and auditing firm based in Coconut Creek, Florida.  The Firm was 
founded by Mitchell J. Pruzansky in May 2003 and changed its name to D’Arelli Pruzansky in 
2012 after Joseph D’Arelli joined the Firm.  D’Arelli Pruzansky has been registered with the 
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) since October 2012.  In 2015, the 
Firm’s client list included 17 public companies and six registered broker-dealers.  D’Arelli 
Pruzansky has no disciplinary history.   
        
       2.      Joseph D’Arelli, age 47, is a certified public accountant (“CPA”) licensed to 
practice in New York and Florida since 1998 and 2004, respectively.  D’Arelli held a license to 
practice as a CPA in Virginia from 2001 to 2013.  D’Arelli became a partner and shareholder of 
D’Arelli Pruzansky in 2012.  In May 2016, D’Arelli left the Firm and is currently employed as a 
controller of a public company.  D’Arelli has no disciplinary history.   
        
       3.      Mitchell Pruzansky, age 55, is a CPA licensed to practice in New York and 
Florida since 1987 and 1990, respectively.  Since 2015, Pruzansky has held a provisional CPA 
license in Missouri.  Pruzansky is the founding partner and shareholder at the Firm.  Pruzansky has 
no disciplinary history.   
 
 

                                                 
1
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not binding on any other 
person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   
 
                                                 2 
                                                   
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
                                              FACTS 
                                                   
Issuer Engagements 
                                                   
       4.      D’Arelli commenced his role as lead audit partner for one of the issuer clients in 
2010, while employed at another PCAOB-registered audit firm.  Between 2010 and 2014, he 
served as the issuer client’s lead audit partner for each of the five fiscal year audits and continued 
to serve as lead audit partner for the quarterly reviews after the fifth fiscal year.  D’Arelli rotated 
off serving as the client’s lead audit partner prior to the sixth fiscal year audit. 
        
       5.      Pruzansky similarly commenced his role as lead audit partner for the other four 
issuer clients in 2009, also while employed at another PCAOB-registered audit firm, and served as 
lead audit partner on five fiscal year audits for each.  Following the fifth fiscal year audits, he 
served as lead audit partner for certain quarterly reviews for these four issuer clients.  Pruzansky 
rotated off serving as the clients’ lead audit partner prior to the sixth fiscal year audit for each 
client. 
        
       6.      During a PCAOB inspection in July 2015, the Firm was informed by the PCAOB 
inspection staff that it had failed to comply with the SEC’s partner rotation requirements with 
regard to two issuer audit clients.  Specifically, D’Arelli and Pruzansky (collectively, the 
“Partners”) failed to rotate off the audit engagements as lead audit partners after the required five 
fiscal year period. 
        
       7.      In August 2015, the Firm reviewed all of its engagements to identify the universe of 
issuer audit clients that may have had a similar rotation issue.  This review found that the rotation 
issue existed for three additional issuer clients.  Thus, the Firm and the Partners were not 
independent with respect to the audit services they provided to five issuer clients in connection 
with certain quarterly reviews as listed below.  The Firm self-reported these violations to the 
Commission’s staff and took prompt remedial measures. 
        
                    Issuer       Audit Services Beyond Five Fiscal Years 
                       1         2015:  Q1, 2, 3  
                       2         2014:  Q1, 2, 3  
                       3         2014:  Q1, 2, 3  
                       4         2014:  Q1, 2  
                       5         2014:  Q1, 2  
 
Auditor Partner Rotation and Independence 
 
       8.      Section 10A(j) of the Exchange Act, Audit Partner Rotation, provides “[i]t shall be 
unlawful for a registered public accounting firm to provide audit services to an issuer if the lead (or 
coordinating) audit partner (having primary responsibility for the audit), or the audit partner 
responsible for reviewing the audit, has performed audit services for that issuer in each of the 

                                                  3 
                                                   
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
previous five fiscal years of that issuer.”  Rule 10A-2 of the Exchange Act, Auditor Independence, 
provides that it shall be unlawful for an auditor not to be independent with respect to, among other 
requirements, the partner rotation requirements of the Commission’s Regulation S-X.  Rule 2-
01(c)(6)(i)(A) of Regulation S-X allows engagement and concurring partners to serve for five 
consecutive years, after which they may not serve in either role for another period of five years.   
        
       9.      The Firm was not independent with respect to the various 2014 and 2015 quarterly 
reviews for the five issuer clients, as a consequence of D’Arelli’s failure to rotate off the 
engagement on the quarterly review of one issuer client’s first three quarters of 2015, and 
Pruzansky’s failure to rotate off the engagement on the various quarterly reviews for the other four 
issuer clients in 2014. 
        
       10.    D’Arelli and Pruzansky had previously served as lead engagement partners on these 
engagements for five consecutive years and were not eligible to serve in that role for any review or 
audit for the next five consecutive years.  
        
       11.    Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-13 require issuers with securities 
registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act to file with the Commission accurate quarterly 
reports on Form 10-Q.  No showing of scienter is necessary to establish a violation of Section 13(a) 
or the rules thereunder.  See SEC v. Savoy Indus., Inc. 587 F.2d 1149, 1166-67 (D.C. Cir. 1978). 
        
       12.    The above-described actions by the Firm and the Partners caused the five issuer 
clients, all of which had securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, to violate 
Section 13a of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-13 thereunder.  Rule 10-01(d) of Regulation S-X 
requires the interim financial statements included in a Form 10-Q to be reviewed by an 
independent public accountant.  The Firm’s and the Partners’ rotation violations caused the issuer 
clients to fail to comply with Rule 10-01(d) and, in turn, violate Section 13(a) and Rule 13a-13. 
        
                                         VIOLATIONS 
 
       13.    As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent D’Arelli Pruzansky, P.A. 
violated Section 10A(j) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10A-2 thereunder, which makes it unlawful 
for an auditor not to be independent with respect to, among other requirements, the partner rotation 
requirements.  
 
       14.    As a result of the conduct described above, Respondents D’Arelli and Pruzansky 
caused the Firm’s violations of Section 10A(j) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10A-2 thereunder. 
 
       15.    Also as a result of the conduct described above, Respondents caused the five issuer 
clients to violate Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-13 thereunder. 
 
 
 

                                                 4 
                                                  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 
 
                                    REMEDIAL EFFORTS 
                                                  
       In determining to accept the Offers, the Commission considered remedial acts promptly 
undertaken by Respondents and cooperation afforded the Commission staff.   
        
                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.      Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondents cease and desist from 
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 10A(j) and 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 10A-2 and 13a-13 thereunder.   
 
       B.      Respondents shall jointly and severally pay a civil penalty of $50,000 to the 
Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States 
Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  Payment shall be made in the following 
installments:   
 
       (i)     $5,000 due within 21 days from the entry of this Order; 
                
       (ii)    $7,500 due within 90 days from the entry of this Order; 
                
       (iii)    $12,500 due within 180 days of the entry of this Order; 
        
       (iv)    $12,500 due within 270 days of the entry of this Order; and  
        
       (v)    $12,500 due within 360 days of the entry of this Order. 
 
If any payment is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire 
outstanding balance of civil penalties, plus any additional interest accrued pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 
3717, shall be due and payable immediately, without further application.   
 
Payment must be made in one of the following ways:   
 
               (1)    Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, 
                      which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon 
                      request;  
                

                                                5 
                                                  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 
               (2)    Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
                
               (3)    Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
               Enterprise Services Center 
               Accounts Receivable Branch 
               HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
               6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
               Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
D’Arelli Pruzansky, P.A., Joseph D’Arelli, and Mitchell J. Pruzansky as Respondents in these 
proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or 
money order must be sent to Glenn S. Gordon, Associate Regional Director, Miami Regional 
Office, Securities and Exchange Commission, 801 Brickell Avenue, Suite 1800, Miami, FL 33131.   
 
       C.      Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be 
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To 
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that in any Related Investor 
Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or reduction of 
any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil 
penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”).  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a 
Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that they shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order 
granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount of 
the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be 
deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil 
penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” 
means a private damages action brought against Respondents by or on behalf of one or more 
investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the 
Commission in this proceeding. 

                                                6 
                                                  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 
 
                                                    V. 

       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by 
Respondents Joseph D’Arelli and Mitchell J. Pruzansky, and further, any debt for disgorgement, 
prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other amounts due by Respondents Joseph D’Arelli and 
Mitchell J. Pruzansky under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree or 
settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by 
Respondents Joseph D’Arelli and Mitchell J. Pruzansky of the federal securities laws or any 
regulation or order issued under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy 
Code, 11 U.S.C. § 523(a)(19). 

 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                      Brent J. Fields 
                                                      Secretary 
        
 

                                                 7 
                                                   
