---------------------Page 1---------------------

                               UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 74230 / February 6, 2015 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3632 / February 6, 2015 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-13872 

                          
                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Marlin R. Brinsky, CPA  
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                          

       On April 28, 2010, Marlin R. Brinsky, CPA (“Brinsky”) was suspended from appearing 
or practicing before the Commission as an accountant as a result of settled public administrative 
proceedings instituted by the Commission against Brinsky pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the 
                              1
Commission's Rules of Practice.   This order is issued in response to Brinsky’s application for 
reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant responsible for the 
preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed with the Commission. 

       The Commission found that Brinsky had been permanently enjoined by a United States 
District Court from future violations of Rule 2-02 of Regulation S-X.  In a complaint filed on 
April 25, 2005, the Commission alleged, among other things, that Brinsky and others 
participated in a scheme that resulted in Exotics.com (“Exotics.com”) filing materially false and 
misleading financial statements in its Commission filings, including, among others, an amended 
current report on Form 8-K filed on September 24, 2001, a quarterly report on Form 10-QSB for 
the quarter ended September 30, 2001, and an annual report on Form 10-KSB for the fiscal year 
ended December 31, 2001. The complaint further alleged that Brinsky and other members of the 
Merdinger, Fruchter, Rosen & Company, P.C. (“MFRC”) audit staff committed acts and/or 
omissions that caused them to become non-independent during audits of Exotics.com and caused 
audit reports issued by MFRC, among other things, to falsely state that the audits had been 
conducted by an independent auditor and in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards (“GAAS”). The complaint also alleged that Brinsky engaged in a number of improper 
accounting practices that caused Exotics.com’s financial statements to depart from generally 
accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). 

                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 3130 dated April 28, 2010.  Brinsky was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after two years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                    

 
       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Brinsky 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Brinsky is not, at this time, seeking to appear 
or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume 
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be 
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Brinsky’s 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
                                                          2
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”   This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Brinsky, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the April 28, 2010 order 
suspending him from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 
and that Brinsky, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee 
of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in 
his practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to 
be filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is 
accordingly, 
 
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Marlin R. Brinsky, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                               
                                               
                                              Brent J. Fields 
                                              Secretary  
                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 

                                                 2 
