---------------------Page 1---------------------

                          UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                      before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 79483 / December 6, 2016 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3834 / December 6, 2016 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17709 
 

                                                ORDER INSTITUTING 
                                                CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS 
In the Matter of                                PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF THE 
                                                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, 
KPMG LLP,                                       MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                                REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A 
Respondent.                                     CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 

                                          I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against KPMG LLP (“KPMG” or 
“Respondent”). 

                                          II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose 
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are 
admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings 
Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing 
Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                     III. 

                                                                                            1
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that: 

A.      SUMMARY 

        At all relevant times, KPMG LLP has served as the independent auditor for The St. Joe 
Company (“St. Joe” or “the Company”), an NYSE-listed real estate developer, timberland owner, 
and resort operator.  In the course of a formal investigation concerning possible misstatements in 
                                                                                     2
the annual and other periodic reports filed by St. Joe with the Commission,            Commission staff 
issued a subpoena to KPMG for the audit workpapers it created during the relevant period, among 
other materials.  After the staff alerted KPMG that its production appeared to omit certain of its 
2008 audit workpapers responsive to the sub        poena, KPMG searched for the workpapers in 
question, was unable to locate them, and informed the staff that they could not be found.  As 
detailed below, by failing to retain its 2008 St. Joe audit workpapers in their entirety, KPMG 
violated Rule 2  -06 of Re  gulation S  -X, which requires auditors to preserve audit workpapers for 
seven years after concluding an audit or review of an issuer’s financial statements.  

B.      RESPONDENT 
 
        KPMG LLP is a Delaware limited liability partnership that is headquartered in New York, 
NY.  KPMG is an audit, tax and advisory firm and the U.S. member firm of the KPMG network of 
independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative, a Swiss entity.  Since 
2003, KPMG has been registered, pursuant to the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, with the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”), to prepare and issue audit reports.  KPMG 
has served as the independent auditor of St. Joe from 1999 to the present.  

C.      FACTS 
 
        On June 16, 2011, the staff opened a formal investigation into possible misstatements in 
the annual and other periodic reports filed by St. Joe with the Commission, among other issues. On 
June 23, 2011, the staff issued an investigative subpoena to KPMG that called for the production of 
all KPMG workpapers concerning its audits and interim reviews of St. Joe’s financial statements 
from January 1, 2007 through the date of the subpoena, including KPMG’s workpapers associated 
with the audit of St. Joe’s financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008 (the “2008 
Workpapers”).   
         

                                                 

    1
         The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other 
    person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

    2
         The Commission has previously instituted settled public administrative and cease-and -desist   proceedings  
    against St. Joe and five of its current and former executives, which imposed remedial sanctions, cease-and -desist 
    orders, and penalties against these respondents, based on these and other misstatements and misconduct occurring 
    in 2009 and 2010.  See In the Matter of The St. Joe Company et al., SEC Release No. 9967 (Oct. 27, 2015).  

                                                       2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       In September 2013, with its investigation ongoing, the staff notified KPMG that it had 
identified what appeared to be omissions from KPMG’s production of the 2008 Workpapers.  
KPMG undertook to investigate.  As reported to the staff, KPMG concluded that the 2008 
Workpapers as originally compiled by the KPMG engagement team included (1) a summary 
memorandum describing KPMG’s audit procedures regarding St. Joe’s evaluation of the 
recoverability of its investment in its residential development real estate and (2) client-prepared 
schedules bearing KPMG audit work testing St. Joe’s evaluations of recoverability of certain of 
these properties.  KPMG concluded that these workpapers were not included among the 2008 
Workpapers at the time they were collected and produced to the staff and had become lost.  While 
KPMG located and produced an electronic copy of what it believed to be the final summary 
workpaper which would have been printed and included in the 2008 Workpapers, it did not have or 
produce an electronic copy of the missing client-prepared schedules. 
        
       In 2015, pursuant to further conversations with the staff regarding the missing workpapers, 
and after a second search and further investigation, KPMG informed the staff that (i) the binder 
that contained the missing workpapers had been checked out by a junior member of the 
engagement team on April 20, 2009; (ii) that when the binder was checked back in to KPMG’s 
records center on February 26, 2010, it did not contain the summary memorandum or the 
client-prepared schedules bearing KPMG audit work referenced above; and (iii) that all of this 
occurred before the commencement of the staff’s investigation.  KPMG did not detect for itself 
that these pages were missing.  Their absence was discovered by the staff in connection with its 
investigation years later.   
        
       The subject matter of the missing workpapers was St. Joe’s testing of its real estate 
development properties for recoverability and possible impairment in accordance with Financial 
Accounting Standard No. 144 (“FAS 144”) and KPMG’s auditing of the same.       

D.     LEGAL ANALYSIS 

       Rule 2-06 of Regulation S-X requires that for a period of seven years after an accountant 
concludes an audit or review of an issuer’s financial statements to which section 10A(a) of the 
Exchange Act applies, the accountant must retain records relevant to the audit or review.  See Rule 
2-06(a).  Thus, KPMG violated Rule 2-06 by failing to retain the complete set of the subject 2008 
                              3
Workpapers described above.     

                                                  

   3
        The Commission has stated that the obligation to retain workpapers is foundational to the successful 
   operation of our securities markets and therefore critical: 

   Working papers prepared or collected by auditors in the course of an audit provide the single most important 
   support for their representation regarding compliance with generally accepted auditing standards.  They serve as 
   the repository for the competent evidential matter necessary to afford the auditors with a reasonable basis for 
   opining on an issuer’s financial position …. It is therefore imperative that auditors preserve their working papers 
   in a complete and unaltered form.   

   Matter of S.D. Leidesdorf & Co. et al., Accounting Series Release No. 209 (Feb. 1977) (emphasis added); see also 
   Rule 2-06’s Adopting Release (http://www.sec.gov/rules/final/33-8180.htm) at § IV.B. (noting that Rule 2-06 
   “preserve[s] evidence reflecting significant accounting judgments” and thus may (i) “provide important evidence 
 

                                                  3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                 OTHER CONSIDERATIONS 
                                                  
       In determining to accept KPMG’s Offer, the Commission considered efforts undertaken by 
KPMG beginning in 2010 to enhance its policies and procedures governing the retention of audit 
workpapers.  The resulting improvements include (i) retention of electronic workpapers in a 
central filing system from which they can subsequently be accessed but neither altered nor 
removed, and (ii) KPMG’s electronic workpapers being further preserved via back-up storage.  
          
                                           FINDINGS 

       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent KPMG violated Rule 2-06 
of Regulation S-X. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

               A.     Pursuant to Exchange Act Section 21C, Respondent KPMG shall cease and 
       desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Rule 2-06 of 
       Regulation S-X. 

               B.     Respondent KPMG shall, within ten (10) days of the entry of this Order, 
       pay a civil money penalty in the amount of $230,000 to the Securities and Exchange 
       Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to 
       Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall 
       accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717.   

               C.     All payments required by this Order must be made in one of the following 
       ways: 

               (1) Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                   will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request; 

               (2) Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                   through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or 

               (3) Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States 
                   postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission 
                   and hand-delivered or mailed to: 

                   Enterprise Services Center 
                   Accounts Receivable Branch  

                                                                                                                                                             
   of financial reporting improprieties or deficiencies in the audit process”; (ii) “facilitate greater oversight of audits 
   and improve audit quality,” and thus (iii) “increase investor confidence in the reliability of reported financial 
   information”).  

                                                 4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                 HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                 6500 South MacArthur Boulevard  
                 Oklahoma City, OK 73169 

       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter 
       identifying Respondent as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of 
       these proceedings.  A copy of the cover letter and check or money order, or 
       documentation of whatever other form of payment is used, must be simultaneously 
       sent to Stephanie Avakian, Deputy Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities 
       and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., N.E., Washington, DC 20549. 

       By the Commission. 
                                            
                                           Brent J. Fields 
                                           Secretary 

                                              5 
 
