---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 
                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 78730 / August 30, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3798 / August 30, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17517 

                                              
In the Matter of                             ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE         -AND-
                                             DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
      ASTRAZENECA PLC                        SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                             EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING 
Respondent.                                  FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE          -
                                             AND-DESIST ORDER   
 
 
 
       
 
 
                                            I.  
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against AstraZeneca PLC (“AZN” or “Respondent”).   
 
 
                                           II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of  Settlement  (the  “Offer”)  which  the  Commission  has  determined  to  accept.    Solely  for  the 
purpose  of  these  proceedings  and  any  other  proceedings  brought  by  or  on  behalf  of  the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein,  except  as  to  the  Commission’s  jurisdiction  over  it  and  the  subject  matter  of  these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making 
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               III. 
 
                                                                               1
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that:  
 
                       
                                          SUMMARY 
  
       These  proceedings  arise  out  of  violations  of  the  internal  controls  and  recordkeeping 
provisions  of  the  Foreign  Corrupt Practices  Act  (the  “FCPA”)  by  AZN  and  its  wholly-owned 
subsidiaries in China and Russia.  Through at least 2010, AZN failed to devise and maintain a 
sufficient system of internal accounting controls relating to the interactions of its China and Russia 
subsidiaries  with  government  officials,  the  vast  majority  of  whom  were  health  care  providers 
(“HCPs”), at state-owned and state-controlled entities in China and Russia.  Sales and marketing 
staff,  along  with  multiple  levels  of  management  at  the  two  AZN  subsidiaries,  designed  and 
authorized several schemes to make improper payments of gifts, conference support, travel, cash 
and other benefits to HCPs to reward or influence their purchases of AZN pharmaceuticals.  In 
addition, employees in the China subsidiary made cash payments to local officials to reduce or 
avoid fines that were levied against the China subsidiary.  AZN falsely recorded all of the improper 
payments by its China and Russia subsidiaries as bona fide business expenses in its consolidated 
financial statements. 
                             
        
                                        RESPONDENT 
                                                  
       1.      AZN  is  a  global  biopharmaceutical  company  incorporated  in  the  U.K.  and 
headquartered in London.  Throughout the relevant period, AZN’s American Depositary Shares 
have been registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and 
publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE:  AZN), as well as the London and 
Stockholm Exchanges.  AZN files annual and quarterly reports as required under Section 13 of the 
Exchange Act and Rules thereunder.     
   
        
                               OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES 
        
       2.      AstraZeneca (Wuxi) Trading Co. Limited (“AZ China”) is a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of AZN and was responsible for AZN’s sales and marketing functions in China during 
the relevant period.  
 
       3.      AstraZeneca  UK  Limited  is  a  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of  AZN  and  had  a 
representative office in Russia through which AZN operated in Russia prior to 2007. 
                                                                         

                                                 
1
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   
 
                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       4.     OOO AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals is a wholly-owned subsidiary of AZN through 
which it has operated in Russia since 2007.  (AstraZeneca UK Limited’s representative office in 
Russia and OOO AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals are referred to individually or collectively herein as 
“AZ Russia.”)   

                                            FACTS 
 
       Improper Conduct at AZ China  
 
       5.     From 2007 until 2010, AZ China sales staff made numerous improper payments in 
cash, gifts and other items to HCPs as incentives to purchase or prescribe AZN pharmaceuticals.  
Sales  and  marketing  team  members,  including  managers  within  various  business  units  at  AZ 
China, designed and implemented the improper payment schemes.  The HCPs who received the 
improper incentives worked for various government entities in several regions throughout China. 
 
       6.     Between at least 2006 and 2009, certain AZ China sales staff and their managers 
maintained written charts and schedules that recorded the amount of forecasted or actual payments 
of maintenance fees, gifts, entertainment and other expenses that AZ China would make per month 
or  year in numerous regions throughout China.  In some cases, the payments  referenced  gifts, 
entertainment and other expenses to individual physicians, and in other cases, maintenance fees to 
a particular hospital or medical department, as designated by an individual physician. AZ China 
sales  staff  management  approved  these  payments  with  the  expectation  that  the  HCPs  would 
increase purchases of AZN products during the corresponding period, or favorably influence the 
inclusion of AZN products on formulary or reimbursement drug listings.   
 
       7.     In numerous instances, AZ China sales staff submitted, and managerial employees 
knowingly approved, fake fa piao (tax receipts) for fraudulent reimbursements to generate cash 
that was used to make improper payments to HCPs.  
 
       8.     Other methods were also used, such as establishing bank accounts in doctors’ 
names as part of an improper payment scheme, or engaging a collusive travel vendor who 
submitted fake or inflated invoices to generate cash that could be used to funnel money to HCPs.   
        
       9.     As a result of the deficient controls, AZ China employees were regularly 
reimbursed for submitted expenses despite inadequate supporting documentation.  
         
       10.    Similarly, AZ China paid speaker fees to HCPs despite AZ China service contracts 
that were incomplete, containing no meeting date, venue, subject or fees associated with the 
particular speaker event.  In some instances, the related speaker engagement was totally fabricated 
and never occurred.  Additionally, sales and marketing team members were able to bypass formal 
approval procedures that required validation by a designated signatory in the company’s electronic 
approval system.   
 
       11.    In addition, in connection with inquiries by local Chinese government officials in 
2008, AZ China employees made payments in cash to the local officials to get reductions or 
dismissals of proposed financial sanctions against the subsidiary.  
                                               3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

        
       Improper Conduct at AZ Russia 
        
       12.    From at least 2005 until 2010, AZ Russia employees provided improper incentives 
to government-employed HCPs in connection with sales of AZN pharmaceutical products.   
        
       13.    As was done by AZ China employees, AZ Russia employees created and 
maintained charts tracking the names of HCPs, the regions in which they practiced, their level of 
influence in making purchasing decisions for the respective entities where they worked and the 
manner in which they could be motivated to purchase AZN products through gifts, conference 
support and other means. 
        
        14.   Employees at several levels of AZ Russia management directed or condoned their 
subordinates’ practices of providing improper benefits to government-employed HCPs, which 
occurred in multiple regions where AZ Russia operates. 
 
                       COOPERATION AND REMEDIAL EFFORTS  
                                                 
       15.    AZN   did   not   self-report   its   violations;   nevertheless,   the   company   provided 
significant cooperation to the Commission during the entire course of its investigation.  AZN 
immediately  took  a  cooperative  posture  and  ensured  that  it  consistently  provided  complete 
information  in  a  timely  manner.    AZN  voluntarily  and  timely  disclosed  information  obtained 
during its own internal investigation, provided translations of key documents, and disclosed facts 
that the Commission would not have been able to readily and independently discover.  AZN also 
kept the staff regularly informed of its ongoing  remedial efforts throughout the course of the 
investigation.   
 
       16.    AZN had begun independently remediating deficiencies in its compliance program 
prior to the Commission’s investigation.  The company incorporated information developed in the 
course of the Commission’s investigation to further enhance its controls and compliance program.  
AZN made significant increases to both capital and human resources available to compliance at the 
corporate level and in the local markets.  It has developed a centralized compliance program, 
revamped its internal controls and procedures, and placed key compliance personnel in high-risk 
local  markets.    Among  the  other  improvements  made  are  enhancements  to  AZN’s  policies 
governing interactions with HCPs and government officials, gifts, travel and entertainment, third-
party  engagements,  meetings,  congresses,  and  contributions.    AZN  also  enhanced  its  anti-
corruption training and audits.  Additionally, AZN has taken various steps with regard to involved 
employees,   including   targeted   training,   reassignment   to   lower-risk   areas   of   responsibility, 
voluntary separations, and dismissals.  
 
                                    LEGAL STANDARDS 
                                                 
       17.    Under Section 21C(a) of the Exchange Act, the Commission may impose a cease-
and-desist order upon any person who is violating, has violated or is about to violate any provision 
of the Exchange Act or any rule or regulation thereunder or any other person that is, was or would 

                                               4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

be a cause of the violation due to an act or omission the person knew or should have known would 
contribute to such violation. 
        
       Violations of the Books and Records and Internal Controls Provisions of the FCPA 
        
       18.     Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, the books and records provision of the 
FCPA, requires every issuer with a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the 
Exchange  Act  “to  make  and  keep  books,  records,  and  accounts,  which,  in  reasonable  detail, 
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the issuer.”  15 U.S.C. 
§ 78m(b)(2)(A).   As described above,  AZN violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) when its subsidiaries 
mischaracterized improper payments as legitimate expenses in AZN’s books and records. 
        
       19.     Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, the internal controls provision of the 
FCPA, requires every issuer with a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the 
Exchange  Act  to  “devise  and  maintain  a  system  of  internal  accounting  controls  sufficient  to 
provide reasonable assurances that (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management’s 
general  or  specific  authorization;  (ii)  transactions  are  recorded  as  necessary  (I)  to  permit 
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or 
any other criteria applicable to such statements, and (II) to maintain accountability for assets; (iii) 
access   to   assets   is   permitted   only   in   accordance   with   management’s   general   or  specific 
authorization; and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at 
reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.”   15 U.S.C. 
§ 78m(b)(2)(B).   
        
       20.     As described above, AZN violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act by 
failing  to  devise  and  maintain  a  sufficient  system  of  internal  accounting  controls  relating  to 
employee  reimbursements,  third-party  vendors,  speaker  fees,  conferences,  gifts,  travel  and 
entertainment.   AZN did not adequately enforce its corporate policy against making improper 
payments to government officials with respect to its subsidiaries in Russia and China.  Although 
the company had a written policy that prohibited these unauthorized transactions, AZN did not 
employ reasonable controls to detect and prevent such improper payments.  AZN failed to ensure 
that its Russia and China subsidiaries maintained accurate and complete recording of financial 
transactions  referencing  payments  to  government  officials.    These  records  never  appropriately 
described the transactions, and were always inaccurate or incomplete, when the purpose of the 
payment involved an improper incentive to the government official.  The company also did not 
employ reasonable measures to ensure that sponsorship activities involving government officials in 
China were appropriately approved through the company’s established electronic system by a pre-
designated official in the country.  Additionally, AZN did not provide adequate FCPA training to 
its  sales  and  marketing  employees  in  China  and  Russia  who  had  routine  interactions  with 
government officials in the healthcare industry that posed a high risk for bribery and corruption.  
Furthermore,  AZN  did  not  employ  reasonable  due  diligence  and  monitoring  of  third-party 
contractors engaged by its China and Russia subsidiaries, such as travel vendors who provided 
false invoices to the subsidiaries’ employees that facilitated the unauthorized use of corporate 
funds to improperly incentivize HCPs.   
 

                                                5  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                                              IV. 
                                                
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent AZN’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.     Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent AstraZeneca PLC cease 
and  desist  from  committing  or  causing  any  violations  and  any  future  violations  of  Sections 
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(b)(2)(A) and 78m(b)(2)(B)]. 
 
       B.     Respondent  shall,  within  fourteen  (14)  days  of  the  entry  of  this  Order,  pay 
disgorgement of $4,325,000, which represents profits gained as a result of the conduct described 
herein, prejudgment interest of $822,000, and a civil money penalty of $375,000 to the Securities 
and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to 
Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  If timely payment of disgorgement and prejudgment interest is 
not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600, and if timely 
payment of a civil money penalty is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 
U.S.C. § 3717.  Payment must be made in one of the following ways:   
 
 
              (1)    Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                      will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
                       
               
              (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
                       
               
              (3)     Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
                      Enterprise Services Center 
                      Accounts Receivable Branch 
                      HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                      6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                      Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
AstraZeneca PLC as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; 
a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Charles E. Cain, Deputy Chief, 
Foreign   Corrupt   Practices   Act   Unit,  Division   of   Enforcement,   Securities   and   Exchange 
Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549-5648.     
        

                                               6  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

       C.      Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be 
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To 
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor 
Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any 
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil 
penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”).  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a 
Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting 
the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the 
Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be deemed 
an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty 
imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a 
private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based 
on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this 
proceeding. 
        
       D.      Respondent acknowledges that the Commission is not imposing a civil penalty in 
excess of $375,000 based upon its cooperation in a Commission investigation and related 
enforcement action.  If at any time following the entry of the Order, the Division of Enforcement 
(“Division”) obtains information indicating that Respondent knowingly provided materially false 
or misleading information or materials to the Commission, or in a related proceeding, the Division 
may, at its sole discretion and with prior notice to the Respondent, petition the Commission to 
reopen this matter and seek an order directing that the Respondent pay an additional civil money 
penalty.  Respondent may contest by way of defense in any resulting administrative proceeding 
whether it knowingly provided materially false or misleading information, but may not:  (1) contest 
the findings in the Order; or (2) assert any defense to liability or remedy, including, but not limited 
to, any statute of limitations defense. 
        
        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
 
                                                      Brent J. Fields 
                                                      Secretary 

                                                 7  
