---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 77644 / April 19, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3765 / April 19, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17212 
                                              ORDER  INSTITUTING  CEASE-AND-DESIST 
In the Matter of                              PROCEEDINGS  PURSUANT TO SECTION  
                                              21C OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
      LOGITECH                                OF 1934, MAKING FINDINGS,  AND 
      INTERNATIONAL, S.A.,                    IMPOSING CEASE -AND-DESIST ORDER S 
      MICHAEL DOKTORCZYK,                     AND PENALTIES  
      and SHERRALYN BOLLES,  
      CPA, 
 
Respondent s. 
 
 
                                                
 
                                           I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Logitech International, S.A. (“LOGI” or “the 
Company”), Michael Doktorczyk (“Doktorcyzk”), and Sherralyn Bolles, CPA (“Bolles”) 
(collectively, “Respondents”). 
                                             
                                           II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondents consent 
to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing Cease-and-Desist Orders and 
Penalties (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                III. 
 
                                                                                  1
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds     that :  
 
                                            Summary 
 
       These proceedings arise out of, and this Order covers, recurring instances of improper 
accounting in three separate areas at Logitech International, S.A. during a five-year period.  The first 
concerns LOGI’s actions and omissions in fraudulently accounting for the write-down of a failed 
                       2
product in its fiscal year 2011 (“FY11”) financial statements.  The second relates to actions and 
omissions by LOGI, Michael Doktorczyk, and Sherralyn Bolles concerning the accounting for the 
Company’s warranty liabilities in the FY12 and FY13 financial statements, and concerning the 
failure to correct, in the FY13 financial statements, a known error in not amortizing intangibles from 
a prior acquisition.  The third concerns books and records, reporting, and control violations by 
LOGI pertaining to the Company’s revenue recognition in its Americas region in FY09.   
Doktorczyk and Bolles, whose employment at LOGI began in July 2011 and July 2012, 
respectively, were not involved in the first and third areas. 
 
                                         Respondents 
 
       Logitech International S.A. is incorporated in Switzerland and has substantial operations in 
the United States.  LOGI is primarily involved in manufacturing and selling peripherals for 
computers and electronic devices.  Its shares are listed on both the Nasdaq Global Select Market, 
under the trading symbol LOGI, and the SIX Swiss Exchange, under the trading symbol LOGN.  
The company maintains an executive office and its Americas region headquarters in Newark, 
California.  LOGI’s common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Exchange Act 
Section 12(b).  
        
       Michael Doktorczyk, age 50, resides in Menlo Park, California.  From July 2011 (when he 
started at the Company) through August 2014, he was the Company’s Vice President of Finance 
and Corporate Controller.  In May 2013, when LOGI filed its Form 10-K for FY13, Doktorczyk 
was also the Company’s Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer.  
Doktorczyk’s employment at LOGI ended in August 2014. 
        
       Sherralyn Bolles, age 50, resides in Castro Valley, California.  From July 2012 (when she 
started at the Company) through August 2014, she was the Director of Accounting and Financial 
Reporting for the Company.  Bolles’s employment at LOGI ended in August 2014. 
        

                                                 
1
  The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not binding on any other 
person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
 
2
 The Company’s fiscal year is April 1 to March 31.   
                                                 2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                          Accounting for Revue Product/Components 
                                  (Concerning the Company) 
                                                  
       1.      In October 2010 (LOGI’s fiscal Q311), LOGI launched a product called “Revue,” a 
               set-top device that connected to televisions, allowing internet usage and video 
               streaming.  Prior to launching Revue, LOGI had retained a contract manufacturer 
               (“CM”) in Asia to produce hundreds of thousands of units in anticipation of 
               demand during the year-end holidays.  LOGI had also authorized the CM to 
               purchase millions of dollars of components to meet expected demand. 
                
       2.      From the outset, Revue sales were significantly below LOGI’s internal forecasts.  
               By late November 2010, sales and finance personnel, including senior executives, 
               were addressing whether the market price of $299 should be cut.  LOGI’s CFO at 
               the time (“Former CFO”), and its acting controller (“Former Acting Controller”), 
               were aware that LOGI might have to evaluate taking a “lower of cost or market” 
               (“LCM”) charge if the value of Revue inventory was impaired.  
        
                                                                           3
       3.      Under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”)      ,  the C  ompany was 
               required to value its inventory at the lower of the inventory’s cost or market value.  
               Specifically, if the market value of a company’s inventory (generally calculated for 
               finished goods as the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, 
               less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation) is less 
               than its cost, then the company must write-down the inventory value in its financial 
               statements.   
        
       4.      On or around December 7, 2010, because of high inventory levels and weak sales, 
               LOGI directed CM to stop manufacturing Revue, including halting all work-in-
               progress.  LOGI also instructed CM not to ship over 26,000 finished Revue units.  
               Further, because CM, at LOGI’s direction, had purchased parts for future 
               manufacturing, LOGI was liable for approximately $11 million of excess 
               components. 
        
       5.      At the end of Q311 (December 31, 2010), Revue sales were only 40% of LOGI’s 
               forecasts for that product.  As part of its Q311 financial closing process, LOGI 
               performed an LCM analysis of the Revue finished goods inventory and concluded 
               that no adjustment, or write-down, was required.   
        
       6.      On or around January 5, 2011, LOGI’s Senior Vice-President of Operations (SVP-
               Operations) informed several executives that he intended to “dispose of the 
               components” awaiting assembly by CM in light of Revue’s “current trajectory.”  
               Shortly thereafter, the SVP-Operations instructed the VP of Global 
               Sourcing/Supplier Management (VP-Global Sourcing) to “sell all of the 
               components we could.”   
                                                 
3
 FASB Accounting Standards Codification 330-10-35 Inventory – Subsequent Measurement. 
                                                3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

        
       7.     Later in January 2011, LOGI management informed the Board of Directors about 
               the poor sales of Revue and about management’s future plans for the product, 
               including a plan to lower the retail price of Revue to $249 in Q112, and to $199 in 
               Q312.  Management did not inform its independent auditor of this pricing plan 
               strategy. 
        
       8.     On January 27, 2011, LOGI issued its Q311 earnings release, reporting strong 
               results, increasing its guidance for annual revenue for fiscal year-end March 31, 
               2011, and affirming its guidance for annual operating income in a range of $170M-
               $180M. 
        
       9.     During LOGI’s fiscal Q411, Revue sales continued to be far below projections.  For 
               all of Q411, despite regular discounting and promotions, Revue sales were 30% of 
               internal product forecasts.  By quarter-end, retailers were selling fewer than 1,000 
               Revue units per week. 
                
       10.    At the end of Q411, LOGI had over 163,000 units of Revue finished inventory in 
               its US distribution centers, with another 52,000 finished and work-in-progress units 
               in Asia.  Based on the sales rate for Q411, LOGI had well over a year’s supply of 
               Revue.  At the quarter-end sales rate to retailers, LOGI had over three years of 
               inventory. 
                
       11.    In mid-March 2011, an accountant in LOGI’s Regional Finance area asked LOGI’s 
               VP-Global Sourcing about financial risk for the Revue product and the number of 
               units that could be built from on-hand components.  The VP-Global Sourcing 
               informed her that there was no plan to use the components and that Global Sourcing 
               was attempting to sell whatever could be sold.  He also noted: “If we need to scrap 
               [work-in-progress] and components, we should assume a recoverable value of 
               zero.” 
        
       12.    On or around March 23, 2011, a LOGI Finance employee sent the Former Acting 
               Controller a summary of potential excess and obsolete inventory for contract 
               manufacturers in preparation for a meeting the next day to discuss required 
               accounting adjustments for the year-end financials.  The summary highlighted a 
               total potential excess inventory of $19.4M for Revue units and components that 
               “should be reserved.” 
        
       13.    On March 31, 2011, LOGI announced that, for reasons unrelated to Revue, it would 
               miss the guidance it had provided to the market two months earlier.  LOGI lowered 
               the previous guidance for operating income by $30M (to a range of $140M-
               $150M).  Internally, the CEO characterized the guidance miss as a “disaster” and 
               informed his executive team, including the Former CFO, that management’s 
               credibility with the market was damaged. 

                                                4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

        
       14.    For its FY11 year-end financial close process, LOGI initially prepared an LCM 
              analysis indicating that no LCM adjustment was required for Revue finished goods 
              inventory.  The company’s independent auditor arranged separate meetings with 
              LOGI’s Former CFO and Former Acting Controller to discuss the importance of 
              the assumptions in the LCM analysis.  In the meetings, the independent auditor 
              stressed the need to consider future pricing assumptions and strategies.  Within 
              days, LOGI revised the LCM analysis and, based on a planned price cut to $249 in 
              Q112, recorded a $2.2M adjustment.  However, in the revised analysis, LOGI did 
              not account for the planned Q312 price cut to $199, nor did LOGI consider the 
              excess component inventory. 
        
       15.    After receiving the revised LCM with the $2.2 million adjustment, the independent 
              auditor noted the roughly $11 million of excess component inventory and informed 
              the Former Acting Controller and Regional Finance that LOGI was also required to 
              evaluate and, if necessary, record an adjustment for the component inventory. 
        
       16.    LOGI’s Regional Finance accountant resisted adjusting for the component 
              inventory.  When the independent auditor persisted, Regional Finance again 
              emailed the VP-Global Sourcing, notifying him there was “heated discussion” with 
              the independent auditor about Revue, and asking him to determine the number of 
              Revue units that could be built from the component inventory. 
        
       17.    The VP-Global Sourcing, who was responsible for managing the component 
              inventory liability, informed Regional Finance and the Former Acting Controller 
              that production had been stopped for months and that he did not “see a chance that 
              we are ever going to build [the components] into units.”  He wrote that a build-out 
              of components was a “far fetched scenario that has never been formulated.”  He 
              also explained that, at the direction of the SVP-Operations, “we have been working 
              since January to resell component liabilities” with only modest success: “the easiest 
              stuff to resell . . . is moving at 40-50 cts on the dollar maximum.  For the rest of 
              components, we should assume 25cts on the dollar of recovery, the rest will be a 
              hard loss.” 
        
       18.    The Former Acting Controller forwarded the information to the Former CFO, who 
              asked about the potential exposure if the information was correct.  In her reply to 
              the Former CFO, the Former Acting Controller suggested that, by assuming the 
              excess components would be built into finished goods, LOGI could reduce the 
              amount it would have to write-down.  There was no basis for any such assumption.  
        
       19.    The Former CFO replied:  “Yes, we need to understand with precision what we are 
              looking at and what decisions we need to make or clarify.  We are still committed 
              to making the right decisions and staying within our lowered range for Q4—we 
              need to achieve them both.”   

                                                5 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

        
       20.    On the next day (April 18, 2011), the Former Acting Controller received a detailed 
               list of the excess components.  Less than an hour later, she sent a spreadsheet 
               containing an LCM component analysis to the independent auditor, calculating an 
               adjustment of $1.1M, based on a hypothetical build-out of 79,000 additional 
               finished units of Revue.  The Former Acting Controller ignored the fact 
               (communicated to her two days earlier) that LOGI had been actively attempting to 
               sell all of the components, with only limited success and below cost.  Instead, she 
               based the Company’s accounting on a “far fetched scenario.”      
        
       21.    On or around April 18, 2011, after forwarding the component LCM analysis 
               spreadsheet to the independent auditor, the Former Acting Controller met with 
               members of the independent audit team.  At that meeting, the Former Acting 
               Controller discussed LOGI’s plans to use the $11 million of excess components to 
               build 79,000 finished Revue units.  She also represented that LOGI could use 
               excess components (beyond what was needed to make 79,000 Revue units) to 
               manufacture even more Revue units.  The Former Acting Controller’s 
               representations were false. 
        
       22.    During the week of April 18, 2011, the Former Acting Controller and Former CFO 
               met with senior members of the independent audit team.  In those meetings the 
               Former Acting Controller and Former CFO confirmed the assumptions used in the 
               LCM analyses, and represented that LOGI was committed to the Revue product for 
               the long-term and was going to build at least 79,000 additional units using excess 
               components.  These representations were false.   
        
       23.    At the time the representations were made, the Former Acting Controller and 
               Former CFO knew, or were reckless in not knowing, that LOGI had no plan to 
               produce additional units of Revue.  They knew, or were reckless in not knowing, 
               that CM had not shipped any Revue units since late November 2010, and had 
               stopped production in early December 2010.  In fact, they knew, or were reckless in 
               not knowing, that LOGI had no timetable for re-starting production or even for 
               completing the work-in-progress units and, for months, had been attempting to sell 
               excess component inventory at substantial discounts.   
        
       24.    On or around May 27, 2011, the Former Acting Controller and Former CFO signed 
               a management representation letter to the independent audit firm.  The letter 
               contained material misrepresentations concerning the valuation of inventory and the 
               LCM analysis for Revue inventory.  Specifically, with respect to the Revue LCM 
               analysis, the letter represented that “we considered future pricing 
               adjustments/discounts which are probable of occurring.”  This representation was 
               false because the LCM analysis did not consider the planned price drop to $199 in 
               Q312 or other discounting or promotions that would likely be required to sell the 
               excess finished goods inventory. 

                                                6 
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

        
       25.    The Former Acting Controller and Former CFO knew, or were reckless in not 
               knowing, that the representations in the management representation letter 
               concerning inventory valuation and the LCM analysis were false.  Prior to including 
               the language on LCM and inventory valuation in the representation letter, the 
               independent audit team had made both the Former Acting Controller and Former 
               CFO aware of the importance of considering future pricing in the LCM analysis.  
               As LOGI acknowledged in its November 2014 restatement, the Company had not 
               considered future pricing adjustments/discounts that were probable of occurring.  
               The LCM analysis provided to the independent audit firm, and which the Former 
               Acting Controller and Former CFO discussed with the auditor, did not address—or 
               account for—LOGI’s plan to lower the price to $199 in or before Q312.  
        
       26.    On May 27, 2011, LOGI filed its Form 10-K with the Commission.  The Former 
               CFO signed the Form 10-K as the Company’s CFO and Principal Accounting 
               Officer.  LOGI reported operating income of $142.7M, which was within the 
               lowered range of $140M-$150M that LOGI had communicated to investors on 
               March 31, 2011.   
        
       27.    On November 14, 2014, LOGI restated its financial results for FY11 and FY12 
               because of errors in the timing of the Revue-related inventory write-downs.  At the 
               time it initially filed its FY11 financial statements, LOGI overstated its operating 
               income by $30.7M, i.e., over 27%.  If LOGI had properly accounted for Revue-
               related inventory in May 2011, it would have reported operating income of 
               approximately $112M, far below the lowered guidance of $140M-$150M.  
        
                                         Warranty Accrual Accounting 
                                (Concerning the Company, Doktorczyk, and Bolles) 
                
       28.    Historically, LOGI divided its operations into three geographical regions: Americas 
               (AMR); Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA); and Asia-Pacific/Japan (APJ).  
               LOGI offered warranties on its products sold throughout the world.  Depending 
               upon the particular country and type of product, the warranties ranged from one to 
                          4
               five years.   In FY0  9 ,  after its independent auditor   raised the need   to accrue for  its 
               warranty liability,  LOGI   began recording a liability in its books and records.    
        
       29.    In the latter part of FY09, accountants within LOGI, including the same Former 
               Acting Controller, developed a warranty accrual model for the AMR region based 
               on the assumption that, if a product failed, it would fail quickly and be returned 
               within one quarter.  The Company did not have a basis for this assumption, nor did it 
               have sufficient data to evaluate such an assumption.  The warranty model also did 

                                                 
4
  The need to account for contingent liabilities, including liability for future product warranty claims, was addressed 
in SFAS 5, Accounting for Contingencies.  Pertaining to warranties in particular, SFAS 5 was codified as ASC 460-
10-25, Product Warranties. 
                                                 7 
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

               not consider when the warranty liability began (i.e., when products were purchased 
               by end-users) or when the liability ended (i.e., one, two, or five years after purchase 
               of a product by the end-user).  This model was shared with the independent auditors.  
                
       30.    From FY08 through FY11, the deficiencies of LOGI’s AMR model—and the need 
               for a more robust method—were known within LOGI’s finance and accounting 
               groups.  During FY10, LOGI’s then-controller noted that the Company’s warranty 
               model was “not good” because it was not based on the total number of products 
               under warranty in the hands of consumers.  Despite this recognition, LOGI 
               continued to use the model to record the warranty liability.  
                
       31.    During LOGI’s FY12, a senior accountant was assigned to provide operational input 
               on LOGI’s warranty in the AMR region.  The senior accountant reviewed the model 
               and could not understand the reason or basis for various discretionary inputs or the 
               underlying assumptions.  She also discovered that the model did not take into 
               account the length of the product warranty term.  Specifically, the senior accountant 
               determined that, if LOGI were to change its warranty term (e.g., increase the length 
               of the warranty from one-year to three-years), the model’s calculated exposure (i.e., 
               the required accrual) would not change.  In other words, the model calculated the 
               same warranty accrual regardless of whether products carried a three-month 
               warranty or a 10-year warranty. 
        
       32.    The senior accountant inquired but could not get an explanation or basis for the 
               inputs or why changing the warranty term would not impact the calculated accrual.  
               The senior accountant also realized that the model did not use “sell-through data” 
               (data on product sales to consumers).  Although she lacked expertise in warranty 
               accounting, she concluded that the Company’s warranty accrual model did not 
               comply with GAAP.  
        
       33.    In Q312, the senior accountant developed a new, more robust “waterfall” model 
               despite having only limited historical sales and return data available to her.   Using 
               the new model, she estimated that the Company was under-reserved by several 
               million dollars.  She reported her findings to her supervisor, who arranged a meeting 
               with Doktorczyk (the controller).    
        
       34.    Since at least 2004, LOGI’s finance and accounting groups and senior management 
               used a quarterly “exposure list” to keep track of significant recorded entries, 
               potential exposures or charges, reclassifications, and other items.  LOGI’s finance 
               and accounting groups did not share the exposure list with its independent auditor.  
               In Q312, the warranty accrual was added to the list as a “potential exposure,” with 
               the amount of exposure “TBD” [to-be-decided].  The warranty accrual remained on 
               the list as a “potential exposure” for six more quarters. 
        

                                                 8 
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

       35.    On or around December 21, 2011 (the end of Q312), the senior accountant presented 
               her conclusions to Doktorczyk, the Former Acting Controller, and others.  In the 
               presentation, the senior accountant set forth the deficiencies with the existing model 
               and indicated a likely under-accrual of $3.4M.   Doktorczyk did not ensure that 
               deficiencies in the model were corrected.  
        
       36.    Five months later, in May 2012, as part of the Company’s internal accounting 
                                                                   5
               controls, the senior accountant was asked to confirm  the accuracy of certain 
               statements, one of which included language  about the Company’s warranty 
               provisions.  Because she believed the warranty accrual did not comply with GAAP, 
               the senior accountant refused to confirm or certify the statement.  The senior 
               accountant’s refusal to confirm or certify the statement about the warranty 
               provisions was not raised with, and accordingly was not acted upon by, Doktorczyk.   
                
       37.    Bolles started at LOGI in Q213.  In Q313, an accountant in Financial Planning and 
               Analysis (FP&A) became responsible for calculating the warranty accrual.  She 
               noted the same problems, and came to the same conclusion, as the senior accountant.  
               When the FP&A accountant studied the existing AMR warranty model, she could 
               not understand the basis for the inputs and assumptions, and attempted, 
               unsuccessfully, to get an explanation of the AMR model’s inputs and rationale. 
        
       38.    In Q313, the FP&A accountant also discovered that the warranty accrual models for 
               the Company’s other regions (EMEA and APJ) were different than the AMR model.  
               In addition, she determined that LOGI had not updated its warranty accrual 
               calculation in its EMEA region for the two prior quarters because the person who 
               had previously done the calculation had been laid off and no one could find the 
               model.  Bolles was informed about the lack of any support for the EMEA 
               calculation.   
        
       39.    By the end of Q313, the FP&A accountant had concluded that LOGI’s warranty 
               accrual, as computed with the existing model, was not appropriate under GAAP.  
               She informed Doktorczyk and Bolles about the significant problems with the 
               warranty accrual calculation, and asked for technical accounting assistance.  
                
       40.    To assist the FP&A accountant, Bolles assigned the senior accountant who a year 
               earlier had concluded that the existing model did not calculate a warranty accrual 
               that was GAAP-compliant.  At the end of Q313, a meeting was scheduled with the 
               independent auditor to discuss the warranty accrual methodology.  Shortly before the 
               meeting, Bolles postponed it.  The meeting never occurred.  According to the FP&A 
               accountant, the meeting was cancelled because the corporate accounting group did 
               “not want to rock the boat . . . at this time with a revised warranty methodology.”  
        

                                                 
5
 This was a sub-certification process that LOGI had implemented. 
                                                 9 
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

       41.    In mid-Q413, the supervisor of the FP&A accountant arranged a meeting with 
               LOGI’s Former CFO.  One purpose of the meeting was to address the concerns with 
               the warranty model, the range of additional exposure reflected by a modified 
               methodology, and to “share with [LOGI’s Former CFO] our understanding of 
               whether the issue can be contained to FY13 or not.” 
                
       42.    On or about February 14, 2013, LOGI’s top finance and accounting officers—
               LOGI’s Former CFO, Doktorczyk, Bolles, and the VP of FP&A, as well as the 
               senior accountant and FP&A accountant, attended a meeting at which the senior 
               accountant presented her findings regarding the warranty model issues and concerns, 
               much like the presentation she had made 14 months earlier.  The senior accountant 
               told LOGI’s Former CFO that the existing warranty accrual model was not GAAP-
               compliant.   
        
       43.    The February 2013 presentation was explicit about the deficiencies in the current 
               model and the estimated amount of additional exposure: $4.2M.   The presentation 
               also set forth two options for transitioning to a new model: a one-time switch in 
               methodology or a “gradual change to existing approach.”  The first option would 
               result in an immediate charge or “catch up adjustment” to LOGI’s financial results.  
               The second option would “change the current model gradually to increase reserves 
               until [the] catch up entry is not material before switching the model.”  The second 
               option was not GAAP-compliant. 
        
       44.    At the direction of LOGI’s Former CFO, the Company implemented the second 
               option—the plan to gradually increase the reserve.  Specifically, the Company 
               planned for, and added, $1M to its warranty accrual for Q413.  The Company added 
               the $1M in Q413 by manipulating certain formulas in its existing warranty accrual 
               model.  The Company also planned to add $1M per quarter for the first three 
               quarters of FY14.   
        
       45.    Despite the warranty accrual remaining as a “potential exposure” item on the 
               exposure list for six quarters, neither LOGI’s Former CFO nor any LOGI accountant 
               informed the Company’s independent auditor about the under-accrual or the 
               problems with the existing model for over a year and a half, during which time 
               LOGI filed four Forms 10-Q and two Forms 10-K.   
        
       46.    Toward the end of Q413, the senior accountant also discovered that LOGI 
               apparently had not amortized certain intangibles from a FY10 acquisition.  The 
               senior accountant informed Bolles of the potential error in March 2013, over two 
               months before the filing of the FY13 Form 10-K.  The potential amortization error, 
               which was estimated at approximately $1.87M, was also added as a “potential 
               exposure” item on the finance and accounting groups’ exposure list.   
 

                                               10 
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

       47.    No later than April 2013, Bolles was aware that her staff, which included the senior 
               accountant, had researched the intangibles issue and concluded that the Company 
               had failed to amortize certain intangibles.  Bolles did not cause the error to be 
               corrected in FY13 or inform the independent auditor about it before the filing of the 
               Form 10-K.  
        
       48.    On May 30, 2013, LOGI filed its Form 10-K for FY13, which contained material 
               misstatements and omissions about the Company’s product warranty accruals.  In 
               particular, LOGI misstated the amount of its product warranty liability by over 
               $17.2M.  
        
       49.    LOGI’s Former CFO resigned from LOGI in April 2013.   Doktorczyk was asked to 
               become the Company’s principal financial officer and principal accounting officer, 
               and he signed the Form 10-K in that capacity approximately two weeks later.  At the 
               time he signed the Form 10-K, Doktorczyk knew, or should have known, about two 
               accounting errors/exposures that the Company had failed to correct in its books and 
               records and about which the Company had failed to inform its independent auditor.   
        
       50.    On May 30, 2013, Doktorczyk and Bolles signed a letter to the Company’s audit 
               firm representing that “there were no material transactions, agreements or accounts 
               that have not been properly recorded in the accounting records underlying the 
               consolidated financial statements.”  The materiality threshold in the letter was 
               $500K.  At the time they signed the letter, Doktorczyk and Bolles knew, or should 
               have known, about two issues—additional warranty accrual exposure (estimated to 
               be $4.2M at the time) and failure to amortize intangibles (approx. $1.87M) —that 
               exceeded the letter’s materiality threshold and had not been properly recorded in the 
               Company’s books and records. 
        
       51.    On May 30, 2013, Doktorczyk certified that the Form 10-K did not contain any 
               untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make 
               the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were 
               made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by the Form 10-K.  
               Doktorczyk also certified that the financial statements, and other financial 
               information in the Form 10-K, fairly presented in all material respects the financial 
               condition, results of operations and cash flows of LOGI for the period reported.  At 
               the time he signed the certification, Doktorczyk knew, or should have known, of the 
               errors/exposures concerning the warranty accrual and failure to amortize intangibles, 
               and the effect of those errors/exposures on the financial statements and results of 
               operations.   
        
       52.    Prior to the filing of the Company’s Form 10-K in May 2013, Bolles knew, or 
               should have known, that LOGI’s internal accounting controls with respect to its 
               warranty accrual were insufficient.  Bolles was not only aware of deficiencies with 
               the AMR warranty model, but also knew, or should have known, that LOGI had 

                                                11 
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

               inadequate accounting controls over its warranty reserve in the EMEA region.  No 
               later than January 2013, she had been informed that LOGI had not updated its 
               warranty accrual calculation for two consecutive quarters in the EMEA region and, 
               thus, she knew, or should have known, the Company did not have an adequate basis 
               for the reserves it had recorded in those quarters. 
                
       53.    The misstatements and omissions with respect to the warranty accrual were 
               material.  At the end of FY12, LOGI reserved $5.2M for its warranty obligations 
               and reported net income of $71.5M.  Using an appropriate methodology (i.e., the 
               model that LOGI subsequently proposed and adopted), the Company should have 
               reserved $25.5M -- an under-accrual of over $21M.  Similarly, in FY13, LOGI’s 
               accrual was over $17M lower than the GAAP-compliant model required.  
                 
       54.    On August 7, 2013, LOGI filed an amended Form 10-K for FY13, disclosing and 
               correcting the warranty accrual and amortization expense errors, revising its 
               financial statements for FY09 through FY13, and correcting its reporting on internal 
               control.    
                                      Revenue Recognition in AMR 
                                        (Concerning the Company) 
        
       55.    From late FY08 through FY09, LOGI improperly recognized revenue for sales to 
               its largest wholesale distributor (Distributor) in the AMR region. 
                
       56.    Historically, in its AMR region, most of LOGI’s sales were to wholesale 
               distributors and large retailers.  For most sales, including those to Distributor, LOGI 
               recognized revenue at the time it shipped products (net of reserves for estimated 
               returns, incentives, price protection, and promotional programs).  This method of 
               revenue recognition is frequently called “sell-in.” 
        
                             6
       57.    Under GAAP      , to recognize revenue based on “sell-in,” LOGI had to meet certain 
               criteria, including: LOGI’s price to Distributor had to be substantially fixed or 
               determinable at the time of sale, LOGI had to transfer the risks and rewards of 
               product ownership (principally, risk of loss) to Distributor, LOGI could not have 
               any significant obligation to bring about the resale of the product, and LOGI had to 
               be reasonably assured that it could collect payment from the seller. 
        
       58.    If LOGI could not meet the criteria for “sell-in” revenue recognition, then GAAP 
               required the Company to recognize revenue only when it had met all the required 
               criteria in GAAP, which was generally when the wholesale distributor (or retailer) 
               sold the product to the next reseller (or end user) in the distribution chain. 

                                                 
6
 Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 48 (“SFAS 48”), Revenue Recognition When Right of Return 
Exists, which specifies the criteria a company must meet to recognize revenue at time of sale. This was subsequently 
codified into the Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) as ASC 605-15-25 for FY10 and later. 
 
                                                 12 
 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

        
       59.    By the end of FY08, and through FY09, the facts and circumstances of LOGI’s 
               relationship with Distributor required LOGI to recognize revenue based upon “sell-
               through.”  Nevertheless, throughout FY09, the Company continued to recognize 
               revenue from Distributor based upon “sell-in.”  
 
              Logitech’s Course of Dealing with Distributor 
        
       60.    From at least FY07 though FY09, LOGI consistently made large end-of-quarter 
               sales to Distributor in a “hockey stick” pattern: modest sales in the first two months, 
               with a sharp increase in sales in the quarter’s final weeks.  
                 
       61.    In order to encourage Distributor to purchase excess product, LOGI provided 
               incentives to reach quarterly purchase thresholds, provided discounts for bulk 
               container sales, and gave discounts for large, lump-sum payments of overdue 
               invoices at quarter-end. 
        
       62.    To meet its sales numbers, LOGI sold excess quantities of certain products to 
               Distributor with the understanding that LOGI would assist Distributor in selling the 
               products or would allow Distributor to return the products outside of the return 
               period or in excess of the contractual return rights.  When Distributor returned 
               products, LOGI credited the full invoice price and allowed Distributor to keep the 
               incentives and discounts. 
        
       63.    Because of LOGI’s selling significant amounts of lower-demand goods, Distributor 
               had excess inventory of LOGI product and, as a result, withheld payment until 
               LOGI provided a plan for reducing Distributor’s inventory.  Although Distributor 
               had title to the inventory, Distributor considered the inventory to be “owned” only 
               if it had paid LOGI for that inventory. 
        
       64.    To facilitate payment of past-due invoices, LOGI negotiated discounts based, in 
               part, on Distributor’s amount of “owned” inventory.  During FY09, LOGI gave 
               Distributor nearly $3M in such discounts.  Although LOGI had established a 
               pattern of offering and negotiating these end-of-quarter payment discounts going 
               back to FY07, LOGI did not accrue for them at the time of sale/shipment. 
        
       65.    Distributor viewed the discounts as “owned” inventory discounts that were intended 
               to compensate Distributor for its carrying costs of excess inventory.  LOGI’s 
               practice of using discounts to obtain payment of past-due invoices and negotiating 
               discounts based, in part, on “owned” inventory levels was inconsistent with the 
               GAAP requirement that the price at the time of sale be fixed or determinable. 
        
                
                

                                                13 
 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

               LOGI’s Attempts to Alleviate Excess Inventory Levels at Distributor 
        
       66.    Given the facts and circumstances of its business with Distributor, LOGI should 
               have recognized revenue using the “sell-through” model no later than Q408.  
               Instead, in FY09, LOGI attempted to alleviate the large build-up of inventory by 
               finding buyers for Distributor’s excess inventory, arranging “sideways” 
               transactions, and allowing Distributor to return excess amounts of product.  In 
               effect, LOGI treated Distributor as an additional warehouse for inventory.  
                
       67.    Throughout FY09, LOGI assisted Distributor in finding buyers for the excess 
               inventory that Distributor had purchased under generous incentives.   
        
       68.    Despite Distributor’s elevated inventories of LOGI product, LOGI continued to 
               make large end-of-quarter sales to Distributor in FY09, selling some products even 
               though Distributor already had excess quantities.  
        
       69.    In Q209 and Q309, in an effort to reduce Distributor’s inventory, LOGI authorized 
               extra-contractual returns and arranged “sideways” transactions or “channel to 
               channel” sales, in which LOGI would find a purchaser, have the product returned or 
               transferred from Distributor’s warehouse, and insulate Distributor from losing 
               money on the sale.  In Q209 and Q309, LOGI also accepted millions of dollars of 
               excess returns from Distributor.  LOGI characterized some of the returns as 
               “sideways” transactions, claiming that the Company needed the inventory to satisfy 
               a customer in another of its channels, and requesting that Distributor return the 
               product. 
        
       70.    LOGI actively sought buyers for Distributor’s inventory at lower prices than 
               Distributor had paid, and then protected Distributor from losing money on the 
               transactions.  Specifically, LOGI credited Distributor at the original invoice price 
               for the extra-contractual returns and then re-sold the product at lower prices. 
        
       71.    Despite LOGI’s efforts to reduce Distributor’s inventory levels, Distributor still had 
               excessive inventory of LOGI product in late FY09.  As a result, LOGI and 
               Distributor negotiated a special return of $12.5M of products, much of which LOGI 
               had sold to Distributor over a year earlier.  LOGI scrapped some of that product  
               shortly after it was returned. 
                
       72.    Along with the other concessions LOGI gave to Distributor in FY09, the special 
               return was an  indication that LOGI should not have recognized revenue on sales to 
               Distributor upon “sell-in” in FY 09.  Instead, GAAP required that LOGI recognize 
               revenue from Distributor only upon Distributor’s sale of the product.   
 
       73.    If LOGI had switched to a “sell-through” model for Distributor at the beginning of 
               FY09, as required by GAAP (assuming all general revenue recognition criteria 

                                                14 
 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

              were achieved upon “sell-through”), LOGI’s gross sales would have been $52M 
              lower in FY09.  Given LOGI’s reported operating income of $109M and gross 
              margins of 31.3%, LOGI materially overstated its operating income by 
              approximately $16.2M in FY09, as a result of its improperly recognizing revenue 
              from Distributor. 
 
                                           Violations 
        
       74.    As a result of the conduct described above, Logitech violated Sections 10(b), 13(a), 
              13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 
              13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder. 
        
       75.    As a result of the conduct described in Paragraphs 28-54 above, Doktorczyk 
              violated Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 13a-14, 13b2-1 and 13b2-
              2 thereunder, and caused Logitech’s violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 
              13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 
              thereunder. 
        
       76.    As a result of the conduct described in Paragraphs 28-54 above, Bolles violated 
              Rule 13b2-1 promulgated under the Exchange Act, and caused Logitech’s 
              violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and (B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 
              12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder. 
                
                                 Logitech’s Remedial Efforts 

       In determining to accept the Offers, the Commission considered remedial acts promptly 
undertaken by LOGI and the cooperation LOGI afforded the Commission staff.  

                                              IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
 
       Accordingly, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.     Respondent Logitech International, S.A. shall cease and desist from committing or 
              causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 10(b), 13(a), 
              13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 
              13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder. 
               
       B.     Respondent Michael Doktorczyk shall cease and desist from committing or causing 
              any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B), 
              and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, 13a-13, 13a-14, 
              13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder. 

                                               15 
 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

        
       C.     Respondent Sherralyn Bolles shall cease and desist from committing or causing any 
               violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B) of 
               the Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, 13a-13, and 13b2-1 thereunder. 
        
       D.     Respondent Logitech International, S.A. shall, within ten (10) days of the entry of 
               this Order, pay a civil money penalty in the amount of $7,500,000 to the Securities 
               and Exchange Commission.  The Commission may distribute civil money penalties 
               collected in this proceeding if, in its discretion, the Commission orders the 
               establishment of a Fair Fund pursuant to 15 U.S.C. § 7246, Section 308(a) of the 
               Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended. The Commission will hold funds paid 
               pursuant to this paragraph in an account at the United States Treasury pending a 
               decision whether the Commission, in its discretion, will seek to distribute funds or, 
               subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3), transfer them to the general fund of the 
               United States Treasury.  If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall 
               accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717. 
        
       E.     Respondent Michael Doktorczyk shall, within ten (10) days of the entry of this 
               Order, pay a civil money penalty in the amount of $50,000 to the Securities and 
               Exchange Commission.  The Commission may distribute civil money penalties 
               collected in this proceeding if, in its discretion, the Commission orders the 
               establishment of a Fair Fund pursuant to 15 U.S.C. § 7246, Section 308(a) of the 
               Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended. The Commission will hold funds paid 
               pursuant to this paragraph in an account at the United States Treasury pending a 
               decision whether the Commission, in its discretion, will seek to distribute funds or, 
               subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3), transfer them to the general fund of the 
               United States Treasury.  If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall 
               accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717. 
        
       F.     Respondent Sherralyn Bolles shall pay a civil penalty of $25,000 to the Securities 
               and Exchange Commission.  The Commission may distribute civil money penalties 
               collected in this proceeding if, in its discretion, the Commission orders the 
               establishment of a Fair Fund pursuant to 15 U.S.C. § 7246, Section 308(a) of the 
               Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended. The Commission will hold funds paid 
               pursuant to this paragraph in an account at the United States Treasury pending a 
               decision whether the Commission, in its discretion, will seek to distribute funds or, 
               subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3), transfer them to the general fund of the 
               United States Treasury.  Payment shall be made in the following installments: 
               $12,500, within ten days of the date of this Order; $12,500 by January 31, 2017.  If 
               any payment is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the 
               entire outstanding balance of the civil penalty, plus any additional interest accrued 
               pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717, shall be due and payable immediately, without further 
               application. 
        

                                                16 
 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

       G.       Payment must be made in one of the following ways:   
 
               (1)    Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, 
                      which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon 
                      request;  
                
               (2)    Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
                
               (3)    Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
               Enterprise Services Center 
               Accounts Receivable Branch 
               HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
               6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
               Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Logitech International, S.A., Michael Doktorczyk, or Sherralyn Bolles as a Respondent in these 
proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or 
money order must be sent to Gerald Hodgkins, Esq., Division of Enforcement, Securities and 
Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE, Washington, DC 20549-6561.   
 
       O.      Such civil money penalty may be distributed pursuant to Section 308(a) of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (“Fair Fund distribution”).  Regardless of whether any 
such Fair Fund distribution is made, amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant 
to this Order shall be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax 
purposes.  To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that in any 
Related Investor Action, Respondents shall not argue that Respondents are entitled to, nor shall 
they benefit by, offset or reduction of any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any 
part of Respondents’ payment of a civil penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset").  If the court in any 
Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that they shall, within 30 
days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this 
action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such 
a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the 
amount of the civil penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related 
Investor Action" means a private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of 
one or more investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the 
Commission in this proceeding. 
                               

                                               17 
 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

                                                 V. 

       It is further Ordered that, for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 523 of 
the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by 
Respondent, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other 
amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree 
or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by 
Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set 
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 

 
                    
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                      Brent J. Fields 
                                                      Secretary 
 

                                                 18 
 
