---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                          Before the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 79855 / January 23, 2017 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3853 / January 23, 2017 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17805 
                                                 ORDER INSTITUTING         PUBLIC 
In the Matter of                                 ADMINISTRATIVE   PROCEEDINGS 
                                                 PURSUANT TO        SECTION 4C OF THE 
       SHELLY     R. MCGUIRE  , CPA              SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
                                                 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S 
Respondent.                                                               
                                                  
                                                                 
 
 
                                            
 
                                              I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Shelly R. McGuire, CPA 
                                                   1
(“Respondent” or “McGuire”) pursuant to Section 4C  of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
                                                                            2
(“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  
 

                                                 
1
       Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
              The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any 
              person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that 
              person is found . . . (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others . . . 
              (2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to have engaged in unethical or improper 
              professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the 
              violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
        
2
       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
              The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
              practicing before it . . . to any person who is found…to have engaged in unethical or 
              improper professional conduct. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 4C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and 
Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                               III. 
 
                                                                                3
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that: 
 
                                            Summary 
        
       1.      This matter involves a false statement made by certified public accountant Shelly 
R. McGuire to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) concerning her 
knowledge of insider trading in the securities of Sun Healthcare Group, Inc. (“Sun Healthcare”) 
in 2012.  In April 2012, McGuire learned of merger negotiations involving Sun Healthcare as 
part of her professional responsibilities providing tax accounting services to the company.  
McGuire disclosed the merger negotiations to Donald P. Jones, an accountant with whom she 
had a close personal relationship and a relationship of trust and confidence, to seek professional 
guidance on an accounting issue affecting the merger.  Jones thereafter misappropriated the 
information by purchasing Sun Healthcare stock and tipping a friend.  Sun Healthcare publicly 
announced its acquisition by Genesis Healthcare, Inc. on June 20, 2012. 
 
       2.      In September 2012, as part of an inquiry into trading in advance of the merger 
announcement, FINRA sent a request to McGuire’s firm for individuals with prior knowledge of 
the Sun Healthcare acquisition to identify and provide information about parties who traded prior 
to the public announcement.  FINRA included Jones and his tippee as such traders in this request.  
McGuire was asked to identify any known individuals on the list, and in her review of it, learned 
that Jones had used the confidential merger information to purchase Sun Healthcare stock and tip 
another trader.   McGuire thereafter falsely responded to FINRA that she had no information about 
any of the identified traders. 
         
                                         Respondent 
 
       3.      Shelly R. McGuire, age 42, is a resident of Alhambra, California, is a certified 
public accountant licensed in California and New Mexico, and in 2012 was a member of The 

                                                 
3
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding 
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“AICPA”).  In 2012, McGuire was 
employed by a public accounting firm as an accountant and provided tax accounting services to 
Sun Healthcare. 
                             Other Relevant Entity and Individual 
 
       4.      Sun Healthcare Group, Inc. formerly headquartered in Irvine, California, operated 
nursing, long-term care and assisted living facilities in the United States.  The company’s stock 
was registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and was traded on the NASDAQ Stock 
Market under the ticker symbol “SUNH” until December 1, 2012, when it was acquired by 
Genesis Healthcare, Inc. 
 
       5.      Donald P. Jones was, at all relevant times, a certified public accountant licensed in 
California and Michigan. 
                                                 
                                              Facts 
 
       6.       Since at least 2011, Sun Healthcare had retained McGuire’s prior accounting firm 
to provide certain accounting services.  As part of that professional engagement, McGuire provided 
tax-related accounting services to Sun Healthcare.         
 
       7.      On or about April 5, 2012, McGuire learned that Sun Healthcare was engaged in 
merger discussions when a Sun Healthcare official asked McGuire to provide guidance on a tax 
issue that could impact the terms of a merger agreement.   
 
       8.      McGuire had a relationship of trust and confidence with Donald P. Jones, based on 
a history, pattern, and practice of sharing confidences with each other.  Shortly after learning of the 
merger negotiations, McGuire told Jones about them and sought his professional advice on the Sun 
Healthcare tax issue.  McGuire continued to consult with Jones on the tax issue during the period 
leading up to Sun Healthcare’s public announcement on June 20, 2012 of its acquisition by 
Genesis Healthcare, Inc. 
 
       9.      At all times, McGuire expected Jones to maintain the confidentiality of the 
confidential information she had disclosed to him and not to trade based on the information. 
However, in breach of the duty of trust or confidence he owed to McGuire, Jones misappropriated 
the merger information from McGuire and used it to purchase Sun Healthcare stock in advance of 
the merger announcement and to tip another person, who also purchased stock.  McGuire did not 
know of the trades at the time they occurred. 
 
       10.     Subsequently, on September 19, 2012, McGuire received an inquiry from FINRA 
requesting that any person with prior knowledge of the Sun Healthcare acquisition identify any 
individuals included on a list of traders, provide details of all contacts with those individuals and 
provide information regarding knowledge of Sun Healthcare securities transactions by those 
traders.  The FINRA letter identified Jones and his tippee as traders. 
 

                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       11.    On that date, Jones admitted to McGuire to purchasing Sun Healthcare stock 
based upon the information McGuire had disclosed in confidence and to tipping another person, 
whom Jones identified to McGuire.  However, despite this knowledge, McGuire falsely 
responded to the FINRA inquiry, stating that she had no information about any of the identified 
traders. 
         
                                           Findings 
 
       12.    Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice state that the Commission may deny to any person the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before it if such person is found to have engaged in improper professional conduct. 
 
       13.    In 2012, Section ET 54 of the AICPA Code of Professional Conduct stated, 
among other things, that “[t]o maintain and broaden public confidence, members should perform 
all professional responsibilities with the highest sense of integrity.” 
 
       14.    McGuire’s misrepresentation to FINRA regarding her knowledge of trading of 
Sun Healthcare securities by Jones and his tippee constitutes improper professional conduct as 
defined by Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(A)(1) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice because it was 
intentional or knowing conduct that resulted in a violation of professional standards.  Applicable 
professional standards include Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, Generally Accepted 
Auditing Standards, the AICPA Code of Professional Conduct and Commission Regulations.  
Amendment to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 63 Fed. Reg. 57163, 57167 
(Oct. 26, 1998).   
         
       15.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that McGuire engaged in unethical 
or improper professional conduct within the meaning of Section 4C of the Exchange Act and 
Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
                                   McGuire’s Cooperation  
 
       16.     In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered the cooperation 
afforded by Respondent to the Commission staff.   
 
                                              IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent McGuire’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.     Respondent McGuire is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant. 
 

                                               4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       B.      After one year from the date of this Order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider her reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
                      review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with 
                      the Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                      Respondent’s work in her practice before the Commission will be 
                      reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
                      for which she works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as she 
                      practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
                      Commission that: 
      
                      (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which she is 
                              associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting 
                              Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley 
                              Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which 
                              she is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that 
                              inspection did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in 
                              the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
                              indicate that the respondent will not receive appropriate 
                              supervision; 

                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
                              has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions 
                              imposed by the Board (other than reinstatement by the 
                              Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Respondent acknowledges her responsibility, as long as 
                              Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an 
                              independent accountant, to comply with all requirements of the 
                              Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
                              requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring 
                              partner reviews and quality control standards.   
 
       C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that her state CPA license is current and she has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration  

                                                5  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s  
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                      Brent J. Fields 
                                                      Secretary 
 

                                                  6  
