---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 74235 / February 9, 2015 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3635 / February 9, 2015 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-13248 

                          
                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Kevin Morano, CPA  
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                          
        

       On September 29, 2008, Kevin Morano, CPA (“Morano”) was suspended from appearing 
or practicing before the Commission as an accountant as a result of settled public administrative 
proceedings instituted by the Commission against Morano pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the 
                              1
Commission's Rules of Practice.   This order is issued in response to Morano’s application for 
reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant responsible for the 
preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed with the Commission. 

       The Commission found that Morano had been permanently enjoined by a United States 
District Court from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, and Sections 
10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rules 10b-5, 
13a-14, 13b2-1, and 13b2-2 thereunder, and from aiding and abetting violations of Sections 
10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 
13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder.  In its complaint in the injunctive action, the Commission alleged, 
among other things, that Morano, while serving as its Chief Financial Officer, permitted Lumenis 
Ltd. to recognize revenue in a number of transactions despite red flag warnings that should have 
prevented such recognition.  As a result, Morano made materially false and misleading 
statements in periodic reports filed with the Commission in 2002 and 2003, including by 
certifying the accuracy of financial statements contained in those reports. 
 

                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2892 dated September 29, 2008.  Morano was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after five years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                    

       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Morano 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Morano is not, at this time, seeking to appear 
or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume 
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be 
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Morano’s 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
                                                          2
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”   This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Morano, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the September 29, 2008 order 
suspending him from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 
and that Morano, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee 
of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in 
his practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to 
be filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is 
accordingly, 
 
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Kevin Morano, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                              
                                              
                                             Brent J. Fields 
                                             Secretary  
                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
 

                                                 2 
