---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
 
                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 75014 / May 20, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3657 / May 20, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16550
                                          
                                         :      
                                         :     CORRECTED 
      In the Matter of                   :     ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                        :      PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
             RENRUI TANG,               :      102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                        :      PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
             Respondent.                :      IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                        :       
                                        :       
____________________________________ :           
                                                
 
                                           I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Renrui 
Tang (“Respondent” or “Tang”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1
           

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and  without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III(3) below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                             III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
              1.     Tang, age 41, is a Chinese national residing in the People’s Republic of 
China (“China”).  Tang has served as Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) for China Valves 
Technology, Inc. (“CVVT”) since June 2013.  Tang served as CVVT’s Financial Controller from 
December 2010 through June 2013; interim CFO between February 2009 and July 2009 and 
between May 2010 and December 2010; CFO from December 2007 through March 2009; and 
Director from December 2007 through November 2008.  Tang held himself out and acted as CFO 
and Treasurer of CVVT from at least August 2010 to at least November 2010.  Tang also held a 
variety of positions related to finance and accounting with CVVT’s subsidiaries between 1994 and 
2008.  Tang holds himself out as an “International Certified Public Accountant.” 
        
              2.     CVVT was, at all relevant times, a Nevada   corporation with its principal 
place of business in China.  CVVT  purports to develop, manufacture, supply, and provide services 
related to water flow management products.  At all relevant times, CVVT’s common stock was 
registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Exchange Act”).  CVVT’s securities traded on the NASDAQ Global Market until September 21, 
2012. 
 
              3.     On September 29, 2014, the Commission filed a complaint against Tang in 
SEC v. China Valves Technology, Inc., Civil Action No. 1:14-cv-01630 (D.D.C.).  On May 1 3, 
2015, the court entered an order permanently enjoining Tang, by consent, from future violations of 
Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5(b) and 13a-14 thereunder, and aiding and 
abetting violations of Sections 10(b), 13(a), and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-
5(b), 12b-20, and 13a-13 thereunder  .  Tang  was also ordered to pay a $40,000 civil money penalty. 
 
              4.     The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Tang  
 signed and certified CVVT’s Form 10-Q filing for the third quarter of 2010, which contained 
 material misstatements and omissions related to CVVT’s acquisition of Watts Valve Changsha 
 Co., Ltd. (“Changsha Valve”).  According to the complaint, the filing misrepresented the nature 
 of the Changsha Valve transaction and related payments, and failed to disclose the role of related 

                                              2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 parties and the existence of an investigation into potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt 
 Practices Act.  The complaint alleged that Tang knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that the 
 Form 10-Q was inaccurate because he had received information alerting him to the true nature of 
 the transaction.  Further, as CFO and Treasurer of CVVT, he had access to CVVT’s finances and 
 was responsible for the accuracy of CVVT’s books and records. 
 
                                              IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.     Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Tang is suspended 
from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant. 
 
       B.     After three years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                      (a)    Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)    Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                      (d)    Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
      
       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant provided that he is in 
possession of an accounting license in good standing and he has resolved any disciplinary 
issues with any applicable licensing authority.  However, if the resolution of any disciplinary 
action by a licensing authority is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the 
Commission will consider an application on its other merits. The Commission’s review may 
include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to 
Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice 
before the Commission.  
        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                     Brent J. Fields 
                                                     Secretary 
 

                                                 4  
