---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                         
 
                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 74350 / February 23, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3639 / February 23, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16399 
                                               
                                              
                                              
In the Matter of                             ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                             ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE- 
      Halpern & Associates LLC                AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS 
      and Barbara Halpern, CPA,               PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 4C AND 21C 
                                              OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
Respondents.                                  OF 1934 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                              COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE 
 
 
 
                                                
 
                                           I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Halpern & 
Associates LLC and Barbara Halpern (collectively, “Respondents”) pursuant to Sections 4C1
                                                                                   and 
                                                 
1
      Section 4C provides, in relevant part:  
 
             The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, 
             to any person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in 
             any way, if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications 
             to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to have 
             engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully 
             violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the 
             securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
                                             
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice.  2
                                    
                                                   
                                                II. 
                                                   
        The Commission’s public official files disclose that, at all relevant times, Lighthouse 
Financial Group, LLC   (“Lighthouse” or “the firm”) was registered with the Commission as a 
broker-dealer. 
 
                                                III. 
 
       After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement and the Office of the Chief Accountant  
allege that: 
 
SUMMARY 
 
            1. These proceedings arise out of Respondents’ improper professional conduct in their 
audit of Lighthouse’s financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009.  Those financial 
statements were materially inaccurate in that they overstated the firm’s assets, because its securities 
inventory as recorded in its financial statements was based on erroneous, and inflated, figures for 
the size of its positions in certain securities, and understated the firm’s liabilities by omitting its 
liabilities to one of the broker-dealers through which it engaged in proprietary trading.  Those errors 
caused the firm’s reported net capital to be overstated by nearly $5 million, or over 350%.  
Respondents egregiously failed in several ways to adhere to Generally Accepted Auditing Standards 
(“GAAS”) and did not detect those errors in their audit of the financial statements.   
 
RESPONDENTS 
        
       2.      Halpern & Associates LLC (“H&A”) is an accounting and auditing firm based 
in Wilton, Connecticut.  H&A was founded in 1982, has been registered with the PCAOB since 
2004 and has twelve employees.  Barbara Halpern is currently the sole owner and president of 
H&A.  In 2014, H &A was the independent auditor to twenty-eight broker-dealers.  In addition to 
serving as an independent auditor to broker -dealers and other entities, H&A provides tax advice 
and, on a consulting basis, provides broker-dealers with the services of individuals licensed to act 

                                                                                                                                                             
        
2
       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part: 
 
               The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
               appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have 
               engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct. 
 
        

                                                 2 
                                                   
---------------------Page 3---------------------

as a broker-dealer’s financial and operations principal.  H&A acted as the independe nt auditor 
for Lighthouse from 2002 until Lighthouse withdrew its registration as a broker-dealer in August 
2010. 
               
       3.      Barbara Halpern, age 61, of Weston, Connecticut, was     the  engagement partner 
on Lighthouse’s 2009 audit.  She is currently the sole owner and president of H&A; during the 
relevant period she was the 95% owner.  During the relevant period, Barbara Halpern was a 
certified public accountant licensed to practice in New York and Connecticut.  She is currently 
licensed in Connecticut.  She has hel d a Series 27 license since 1998 and  a Series 54 license 
since 1980.     
               
OTHER RELEVANT ENTITY  
 
       4.      Lighthouse was registered with the Commission as a broker-dealer from August 2, 
2000 until October 23, 2010.  In December 2010, Lighthouse filed a petition for liquidation under 
the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.  At all relevant times, Lighthouse’s principal place of business was 
New York, New York.  During the relevant period, Lighthouse acted as an introducing broker for 
retail and institutional customers, engaged in proprietary trading and market-making, and acted as 
an underwriter or placement agent for equity and bond issuances.  Lighthouse had clearing 
arrangements with several clearing brokers, including Penson Financial Services, Inc. (“Penson”), 
which at all relevant times was a registered broker-dealer with its principal place of business in 
Dallas, Texas.   
 
                                 FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS 
                                                 
Background 
 
       5.     Section 15(c)(3) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78o(c)(3)] and Rule 15c3-1 
thereunder [17 CFR 240.15c3-1] require that broker-dealers generally effecting transactions in 
securities “at all times have and maintain net capital.”  The rule is designed to require a broker-
dealer to maintain sufficient liquid assets to meet all obligations to customers and counterparties 
and have adequate additional resources to wind down its business in an orderly manner without the 
need for a formal proceeding if the firm fails financially.  The net capital rule requires different 
minimum amounts of net capital based on the nature of a firm’s business and the method a firm 
uses in computing its net capital.   
 
       6.     To compute its net capital for purposes of Rule 15c3-1, a broker-dealer first 
calculates its net worth, computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles 
(“GAAP”), deducts the value of certain illiquid assets, and then adds back certain qualifying 
subordinated loans.  The final step is to deduct certain specified percentages, or haircuts, from the 
market value of the securities or other inventory it holds in its proprietary accounts.  Rule 15c3-1 
prescribes differing haircut amounts for a variety of classes of securities and other allowable assets. 
 

                                               3 
                                                 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       7.      Section 17(e) of the Exchange Act and Rule 17a-5 thereunder require registered 
broker-dealers to file with the Commission annual audited reports containing, among other things, 
the broker-dealer’s financial statements for the fiscal year, a calculation of its net capital at fiscal 
year-end, and a report of an independent auditor on the financial statements. 
 
       8.      On February 28, 2010, Lighthouse filed its annual audited report (“Annual Audited 
Report”), which contained Lighthouse’s financial statements for the year ended December 31, 
2009 (“2009 financial statements”).  The 2009 Annual Audited Report also contained H&A’s 
report on the financial statements.     
 
       9.      The 2009 financial statements overstated the firm’s net capital by approximately 
$4.9 million, or over 350%.  The overstatement was primarily attributable to the following errors: 3
                                                                                                   
 
               a.     First, the financial statements overstated Lighthouse’s assets by incorrectly 
                      including approximately $2,052,257 in long securities positions in the firm’s 
                      proprietary accounts at Penson;4
                                                       and 
            
               b.     Second, the financial statements understated Lighthouse’s liabilities by 
                      omitting approximately $2,314,484  owed to Penson.  5
                                                                               
    
Errors That Led to The Overstatement of Lighthouse’s Long Securities Positions and 
Understatement of its Liabilities to Penson 
 
       10.     The overstatement of the total market value of Lighthouse’s long securities positions 
in its accounts at Penson was the result of the firm’s use of erroneous – and overstated – numbers of 
shares of fifteen securities held in five accounts.  Lighthouse calculated the total market value of its 
inventory in those accounts to be $3,489,971, whereas based on the actual size of the positions as 
shown in Penson’s records, the total market value of Lighthouse’s inventory in its Penson accounts 
was only $1,437,714.  The 2009 financial statements thus overstated the value of Lighthouse’s long 
securities positions by approximately $2,052,257. 
 

                                                 
3
       The firm’s reported net capital was also overstated as result of the application of erroneous 
       and insufficient haircuts to Lighthouse’s assets.  
 
4
       The $2,052,257 figure also takes into account a $251,31  7 understatement of the value of the 
       firm’s long securities position that resulted from Lighthouse’s failure to include any of the 
       inventory in one of the firm’s proprietary accounts. 
 
5
       In addition to the amounts due to Penson discussed at paragraph 11 below, this figure 
       includes a $113,002 understatement of Lighthouse’s exposure on short positions in 
       Penson accounts. 
  

                                                4 
                                                  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       11.    The 2009 financial statements also understated, by approximately $2,314,484, 
Lighthouse’s payables to brokers as a result of the firm’s failure to include negative balances in a 
Lighthouse account at Penson.  The account, named “Lighthouse Financial Group F/X Account” 
(“F/X account”), was one of several Lighthouse administrative accounts at Penson that were used to 
hold deposits, resolve failed settlement transactions, and pay clearing balances.  Positive balances 
in those accounts represented amounts due from                                       Penson to Lighthouse while negative balances 
represented amounts due to Penson from Lighthouse.   
 
The Audit of Lighthouse’s 2009  Financial Statements  
 
       12.    In its Independent Auditors’ report, which was authorized for issuance by Barbara 
Halpern, H&A stated that it had audited Lighthouse’s 2009 financial statements in accordance with 
GAAS and expressed its opinion that the financial statements fairly presented, in all material 
respects, the financial position of Lighthouse as of December 31, 2009.  As the engagement partner 
on the audit, Barbara Halpern was responsible for supervising the audit and she signed off on all 
the work papers.  
     
       13.    In fact, the audit was not conducted in accordance with GAAS and the financial 
statements contained in the 2009 Annual Audited Report did not fairly present, in all material 
respects, the financial position of Lighthouse as of December 31, 2009 because they reflected the 
errors described above.    
 
       14.    The audit was not conducted in accordance with GAAS because, among other 
things, Respondents failed to adhere to the most fundamental GAAS requirements:  the 
requirement to exercise due professional care in planning and performing the audit, which includes 
the requirements to properly staff and supervise the audit, to obtain sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence to support the auditor’s opinion, and to exercise professional skepticism in evaluating the 
audit evidence obtained.  
  
       15.    Respondents failed to exercise due care in planning the Lighthouse auditand 
performing the Lighthouse audit, as the auditing standards require.  AU § 230.01.  The requirement 
to exercise due professional care includes the requirement to staff the audit appropriately:  
“Auditors should be assigned to tasks and supervised commensurate with their level of knowledge, 
skill, and ability so that they can evaluate the audit evidence they are examining.”  AU § 230.06.6
                                                                                                 
The individual who was  responsible for the testing of Lighthouse’s securities inventory and its 
balances with banks and brokers – the “senior auditor” – lacked the knowledge necessary to 
evaluate the audit evidence obtained concerning Lighthouse’s proprietary trading.  At the time of 
the audit, he had only been with H&A for six months, had only six months of experience doing 
audit work of any kind, had never audited a broker-dealer, had no understanding of Lighthouse’s 

                                                 
6
       Citations to “AU” are citations to Statements on Auditing Standards  in effect at the time 
       of the audit.  Those statements were issued by the Auditing Standards Board of the 
       American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“AICPA”). 

                                                5 
                                                 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

proprietary trading, and was not familiar with the professional literature concerning auditing 
broker-dealers.  By assigning the senior auditor the critical responsibility of testing Lighthouse’s 
securities inventory and its balances with banks and brokers despite his lack of knowledge in these 
areas, and by failing to properly supervise him, Respondents failed to exercise due care in planning 
and performing the audit.   
 
       16.    Respondents also failed to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence concerning 
Lighthouse’s inventory held at Penson and the firm’s balances with Penson.  The audit team sent 
Penson an open, i.e. blank, confirmation request seeking “[a]n itemized statement for each of 
[Lighthouse’s] accounts with you showing security positions and balances as of December 31, 
2009.”  Penson did not send anything to the audit team concerning the proprietary trading 
accounts.   Penson did send monthly account statements for the F/X account and the other 
administrative accounts to the audit team.  Because the monthly statements reported on a 
settlement date basis and Lighthouse’s financial statements reported on a trade date basis, the audit 
team did not view them as appropriate audit evidence.   
 
       17.    Having been unable to confirm  the firm’s inventory and balances,   Respondents 
should have performed alternative procedures adequate to obtain sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence to support an unqualified opinion, AU § 330.31(“When the auditor has not received 
replies to positive confirmation requests, he or she should apply alternative procedures to the 
nonresponses to obtain the evidence necessary to reduce audit risk to an acceptably low level.”), 
but they failed to do so.   
 
       18.     The alternative procedure chosen by Barbara Halpern was to rely on information 
provided by Lighthouse, which the audit team mistakenly – and unreasonably – viewed as 
information obtained from Penson.  Specifically, Barbara Halpern and the senior auditor obtained 
from Lighthouse schedules of the firm’s December 31, 2009 trade date  inventory at Penson and 
trade date money balances with Penson.  The y referred to those schedules – incorrectly – as a 
“screen print” and a “screen shot” of on-line Penson reports.  
        
       19.    Respondents failed to exercise due care and professional skepticism in considering 
the reliability of those client-provided records, and they failed to obtain audit evidence about their 
accuracy and completeness. 
        
The Audit Procedures Regarding Lighthouse’s Securities Positions 
 
       20.    The purported screen shot of a Penson trade date inventory report provided by 
Lighthouse was not a confirmation because it was not a communication received directly from a 
third party.   AU § 330.04 (“Confirmation is the process of obtaining and evaluating a direct 
communication from a third party in response to a request for information about a particular item 
affecting financial statement assertions.”) 
        
       21.    The purported screen shot of a Penson inventory report was also not in fact a report 
obtained from Penson’s website but rather a schedule that Lighthouse personnel had created.  As a 

                                                6 
                                                 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

client-produced record, in order to provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence for the existence 
of the securities on the balance sheet, the inventory schedule needed to be  –  but was not – 
subjected to audit procedures.  AU §326.08 (“Audit evidence is more reliable when it is obtained 
from knowledgeable independent sources outside the entity.”).  Respondents failed to consider the 
reliability of the information.  AU § 326.09 (“The auditor should consider the reliability of the 
information to be used as audit evidence, for example, photocopies; facsimiles; or filmed, 
digitized, or other electronic documents, including consideration of controls over their preparation 
and maintenance where relevant.” ).  Moreover, Respondents failed to obtain audit evidence about 
the accuracy and completeness of the client-produced record. AU § 326.10 (“When information 
produced by the entity is used by the auditor to perform further audit procedures, the auditor 
should obtain audit evidence about the accuracy and completeness of the information.”).   
 
       22.    Respondents failed to perform adequate procedures to determine whether 
Lighthouse’s accounts at Penson actually held the securities listed on the inventory schedule, 
whether the share quantities shown on the schedule were accurate, or whether Lighthouse had 
additional securities positions at Penson that were not shown on the schedule.  Relatedly, they 
failed to perform adequate procedures to test their belief that the schedule was in fact a copy of a 
Penson-created record.  In fact, the schedule was not a copy of a Penson-created record and it 
overstated the size of fifteen of the firm’s long securities positions in its accounts at Penson, and 
thus overstated Lighthouse’s assets by approximately $2 million. 
        
       23.    Barbara Halpern knew that the purported screen shot of a Penson inventory report 
had been provided by the client.  She failed to exercise due care and professional skepticism in 
evaluating the quality of that audit evidence and thus its sufficiency and appropriateness to support 
the auditor’s opinion.  
        
       The Audit Procedures Regarding Lighthouse’s Balances with Penson  
 
       24.    The 2009 financial statements included among Lighthouse’s assets monies due 
from Penson to Lighthouse in connection with transactions in five currencies in the F/X account.  
The financial statements failed to include, however, amounts due to Penson from Lighthouse.  
Those unreported liabilities totaled $2,314,484.  
 
       25.    The balances in the F/X account appeared on a variety of Penson reports including 
the December monthly account statements, copies of which Penson had sent directly to 
Respondents in response to a confirmation request.  Having concluded that the account statements 
were not sufficient appropriate audit evidence because they reported on a settlement date, rather 
than trade date, basis, and having been unable to obtain a reconciliation of the statements and 
Lighthouse’s trade date records, the senior auditor and Barbara Halpen disregarded the account 
statements in testing Lighthouse’s balances with Penson.  
 
       26.     To test Lighthouse’s money balances with Penson, Barbara Halpern and the senior   
auditor relied on a document bearing the title “Penson Money Line,” which they knew had been 

                                                7 
                                                 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

provided by Lighthouse personnel.  The senior auditor labelled the document “screen print” and 
Respondents treated the document as a screen shot of a report obtained from Penson’s website.  
 
       27.    The purported screen print of a Penson money line report provided by Lighthouse 
was not a confirmation because it was not a communication directly from a third party.   AU § 
330.04 (“Confirmation is the process of obtaining and evaluating a direct communication from a 
third party in response to a request for information about a particular item affecting financial 
statement assertions.”) 
 
       28.    The purported screen print of a Penson money line report was also not obtained 
from Penson’s website, but instead was a schedule prepared by Lighthouse personnel.  As a client-
produced record, in order to provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence for the accuracy and 
completeness of Lighthouse’s balances with Penson on the balance sheet, the purported screen 
print needed to be  – but was not – subjected to audit procedures.  AU §326.08 (“Audit evidence is 
more reliable when it is obtained from knowledgeable independent sources outside the entity.”); 
AU § 326.09 (“The auditor should consider the reliability of the information to be used as audit 
evidence, for example, photocopies; facsimiles; or filmed, digitized, or other electronic documents, 
including consideration of controls over their preparation and maintenance where relevant.”); AU § 
326.10 (“When information produced by the entity is used by the auditor to perform further audit 
procedures, the auditor should obtain audit evidence about the accuracy and completeness of the 
information.”).   
 
       29.    Barbara Halpern was aware that there were differences between the  balances shown 
on Lighthouse’s records and the balances shown on the December monthly account statements that 
the audit team had received from Penson.  Lighthouse’s records showed only positive balances, i.e.                               
amounts due to Lighthouse from Penson.  For the F/X account, they showed a total positive trade 
date balance for the account of $2,284,644, whereas the account statements for the F/X account 
reported a total value for the account of negative $22,305. 
                                                         The December monthly account 
statements also showed that, in addition to positive balances, there were negative balances in the 
F/X account totaling approximately $2.3 million.7
                                                   
 
       30.    Barbara Halpern assumed that the differences she could not account for were the 
result of pending trades, i.e. trades that had been executed but had not yet settled.  She did not 
request a pending trade report from Penson or otherwise attempt to verify this assumption, however.   
 
       31     Nevertheless, the December account statements for the F/X account – which 
Respondents had obtained from Penson – reported pending trades.  Specifically, the account 
statements showed that there was only one trade pending settlement on December 31, 2009 for the 

                                                 
7
       For the F/X account, there were multiple positive and multiple negative balances because 
       balances were calculated separately for each different currency.  The Penson account 
       statements, like the schedule prepared by Lighthouse, reported the balances in both local 
       currency and U.S. Dollars.  

                                                8 
                                                 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

F/X account: a transaction in Euros at a total cost in U.S. dollars of only $42,838, which would not 
account for the discrepancies known to Barbara Halpern.   
 
       32.    After receiving from Lighthouse the purported screen print of a Penson money line 
report that reflected only positive balances, Barbara Halpern failed to perform, or to have the audit 
team perform, adequate procedures to test her belief that the client-produced document was in fact 
a copy of a Penson-created record.   She also failed to perform, or have the audit team perform, 
adequate procedures to test whether Lighthouse in fact had no negative balances with Penson or 
that it had positive balances in the amounts shown on the purported screen print.  In fact, the 
purported screen print she relied upon was not a copy of a Penson-created record and on December 
31, 2009, Lighthouse had negative              balances in the F/X account totaling approximately $2,314,484 
in addition to the positive balances that appeared on the purported screen shot that had been 
supplied by the client.    
        
       33.    Barbara Halpern knew that the purported screen print of a Penson money line report 
had been provided by the client.  She nevertheless relied upon the document without testing the 
completeness and accuracy of the information and without understanding what criteria had been 
used to generate the document.  By relying upon a client-produced record without obtaining audit 
evidence about its accuracy and completeness, Barbara Halpern failed to exercise due care and 
professional skepticism in considering the reliability of that information and its sufficiency and 
appropriateness to support the auditor’s opinion.  
        
                                     LEGAL ANALYSIS 
                                                 
Respondents Engaged in Improper Professional Conduct and Caused Lighthouse’s Violations 
of Section 17 of the Exchange Act and Rule17a-5(a) thereunder 
 
       34.    As a result of the conduct described above, Respondents engaged in improper 
professional conduct.  Regarding accountants, Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B) and Section 4C(b) provide 
that the following two types of negligent conduct may constitute “improper professional conduct”: 
        
       (1)    A single instance of highly unreasonable conduct that results in a violation of 
              applicable professional standards in circumstances in which an accountant knows, 
              or should know, that heightened scrutiny is warranted, or 
        
       (2)    Repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of 
              applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice 
              before the Commission. 
        
“Applicable professional standards” for auditors primarily refers to GAAP, GAAS, the AICPA 
Code of Professional Conduct, and Commission regulations.  See Amendment to Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, Securities Act Release No. 7593 (Oct. 19, 1998) (“Rule 102(e) 
Release”).  With respect to audits of broker-dealer financial statements, the GAAS in effect during 
the relevant period is embodied in various Statements on Auditing Standards (“SAS”), as well as 

                                               9 
                                                 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

the Codification of Statements on Auditing Standards, both issued by the Auditing Standards 
Board of the AICPA.  
 
       35.     Barbara Halpern failed to adhere to the most fundamental auditing standards:  the 
standards that require an auditor to exercise due professional care in planning and performing an 
audit, AU § 230.01, by properly staffing and supervising the audit, AU § 230.06, by obtaining 
sufficient appropriate audit evidence, AU § 326.01, and by maintaining an attitude of professional 
skepticism, which includes “a questioning mind and a critical assessment of audit evidence[,]” AU 
§§ 230.07-08.  An auditor must “obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence by performing audit 
procedures to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the financial statements under 
audit.”  AU § 326.01.  “The auditor should use professional judgment and should exercise 
professional skepticism in evaluating the quantity and quality of audit evidence, and thus its 
sufficiency and appropriateness, to support the audit opinion.” AU § 326.13.   
 
       36.     Barbara Halpern also failed to adhere to auditing standards concerning 
confirmation, AU § 330, the reliability of audit evidence, including audit evidence in the form of 
electronic documents, AU § 326.09, and audit evidence provided by the client, AU §326.08, and 
the need to obtain audit evidence about the completeness and accuracy of client-produced 
information used to perform audit procedures.  AU § 326.10.  
 
       37.     As a result of the conduct alleged above, Barbara Halpern failed to adhere to GAAS 
in planning and performing the audit of Lighthouse’s 2009 financial statements and preparing the 
audit report on those statements.  Moreover, those failures occurred in the most critical areas of the 
audit – the testing of Lighthouse’s holdings in its proprietary accounts and its liabilities to one of 
the broker-dealers through which it engaged in proprietary trading.   
        
       38.     Accordingly, Barbara Halpern engaged in at least a single instance of highly 
unreasonable or, at a minimum, repeated instances of unreasonable conduct within the meaning of 
Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B).   
        
       39.     Barbara Halpern’s improper professional conduct may be attributed to H&A.   
 
       40.     Section 17 of the Exchange Act requires registered broker-dealers to make and 
disseminate certain financial and operational reports.  Rule 17a-5(a) requires that certain broker-
dealers file an annual audited report that contains the broker-dealer’s year-end financial statements 
and a report on those statements by an independent auditor.  Implicit in the requirement that a 
registered broker-dealer file financial reports is the requirement that the information contained in 
those reports be accurate.  See Nikko Securities Co. International, Inc., Exchange Act Release No. 
32331 (May 19, 1993).   
 
       41.     As described above, Lighthouse failed to file an accurate annual audited report for 
the year ended December 31, 2009.   The firm therefore violated Section 17 and Rule 17a-5(a) 
thereunder. 
        

                                               10 
                                                 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

       42.    As a result of the conduct alleged above, Respondents were each a cause of 
Lighthouse’s violations of Section 17 of the Exchange Act and Rule17a-5(a) thereunder. 
        
                                              IV. 
        
       In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement and the Office of the Chief 
Accountant, the Commission deems it necessary and appropriate that public administrative and 
cease-and-desist proceedings be instituted to determine: 
        
       Whether the allegations set forth in Section III hereof are true and, in connection therewith, 
to afford Respondents an opportunity to establish any defenses to such allegations;  
        
       What, if any, remedial action is necessary and appropriate against Respondents pursuant to 
Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice; and 
        
       Whether, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondents should be ordered to 
cease and desist from committing or causing violations and any future violations of Section 17 of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 17a-5 thereunder and whether Respondents should be ordered to pay 
disgorgement pursuant to Section 21C(e) of the Exchange Act.    
                                                 
                                               V. 
        
       IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the questions 
set forth in Section IV hereof shall be convened not earlier than 30 days and not later than 60 days 
from service of this Order at a time and place to be fixed, and before an Administrative Law Judge 
to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
17 C.F.R. § 201.110.   
        
       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents shall file an Answer to the allegations 
contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as provided by Rule 220 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220.  
        
       If Respondents fail to file the directed answer, or fail to appear at a hearing after being duly 
notified, they may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be determined against them upon 
consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be deemed to be true as provided by Rules 
155(a), 220(f), 221(f), and 310 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. §§ 201.155(a), 
201.220(f), 201.221(f), and 201.310. 
        
       This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondents as provided for in the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
        
       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an initial 
decision no later than 300 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to Rule 360(a)(2) of 
the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  
        
                                               11 
                                                 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

       In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission engaged 
in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually related 
proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter, except as witness  
or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice.  Since this proceeding is not “rule making” 
within the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it is not deemed subject to 
the provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any final Commission action. 
        
        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                     Brent J. Fields 
                                                     Secretary 
                                                  
 
 
 

                                                12 
                                                  
