---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                
                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 75963 / September 22, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3705 / September 22, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16828 
 
                                               ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE -AND-DESIST 
In the Matter of                               PROCEEDINGS, PURSUANT TO  SECTION  
                                               21C OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
      IDLE MEDIA, INC. and                     OF 1934, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
      MARCUS FRASIER ,                         IMPOSING A CEASE -AND-DESIST ORDER   
 
Respondent s. 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
 
                                            I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission  (“Commission”)  deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Idle Media, Inc. (“Idle Media”) and Marcus 
Frasier (“Frasier”) (collectively,  “Respondents”).   
                                             
                                           II. 
 
      In anticipation  of the institution  of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission  has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission,  or to which the Commission  is a party, and without admitting  or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s  jurisdiction  over them and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting  Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings, Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making 
Findings,  and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   
                                      
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                III. 
 
                                                                                  1
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds      that:  
 
                                             Summary 
 
       These proceedings arise out of Idle Media’s numerous reporting,  books and records, and 
internal  control violations  during  the period it was a reporting  company from August 2012 
through December 2013.  Because of Idle Media’s accounting  errors, Idle Media restated its 
financial  statements multiple  times during  this period.  First, Idle Media determined  that its 
financial  statements for the 2010 fiscal year required restatement because the company failed to 
record revenue and expenses generated by its subsidiary,  Datpiff, LLC (“Datpiff”), that were 
processed through accounts of its parent, Zoeter, LLC (“Zoeter”).  However, rather than 
correcting these revenue and expense line items, Idle Media improperly  consolidated  Zoeter as a 
variable interest entity.  When Idle Media reported these consolidated  financial  statements, it 
failed to include  Zoeter’s accounts within  each financial  statement line item, leading  to another 
restatement.  Idle Media eventually  acknowledged that its consolidation  of Zoeter was incorrect, 
resulting  in a final restatement to deconsolidate  Zoeter’s financial  statements and recognize all of 
Datpiff’s revenue and expenses in its own financial  statements. 
 
       Marcus Frasier, Idle Media’s founder and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), signed the 
company’s relevant SEC filings  and a certification.   Although  Frasier was responsible  for 
maintaining  Idle Media’s books and records and implementing  adequate internal accounting 
controls,  he failed to do so.  As a result, Frasier caused Idle Media’s reporting,  books and 
records, and internal  accounting controls violations  and improperly  certified Idle Media’s Form 
10-Q filing. 
                                                          
                                        Respondents 
 
       1.      Idle Media, Inc., is a Nevada corporation  based in Leesport, Pennsylvania.  Idle 
Media develops and operates several websites focusing on music, music videos and gaming.   Idle 
Media became a publicly  traded company in May 2010 through  a reverse merger with another 
corporation.   Idle Media’s stock was registered with the Commission  pursuant to Section 12(g) 
of the Exchange Act from August 2012 to December 2013.  During  that period,  its stock was 
quoted on the OTC Bulletin  Board under the ticker symbol “IDLM.”  The stock is currently 
quoted on the OTC Link,  which is operated by OTC Markets Group Inc.  Approximately  65% of 
Idle Media’s outstanding  stock is owned by Zoeter.  Idle Media operates through Datpiff, a 
wholly  owned subsidiary.   

       2.      Marcus Frasier, age 30, is a resident of Shoemakersville,  Pennsylvania.   Frasier is 
the founder of Idle Media and is its CEO.  Frasier also owns Zoeter and is its only member. 

                                               
1
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not binding on any 
       other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
 
                                                 2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                 
                                            Background 
    
       3.      In 2005,  Frasier created Zoeter to hold  and run certain web development  projects.  
Zoeter held datpiff.com,  a website that enabled customers to upload  and share music.   
 
       4.      In 2008,  Frasier formed Datpiff to hold and run the datpiff.com  website.  
Although  Frasier intended Datpiff to operate separately from Zoeter, Frasier used accounts in 
Zoeter’s name to receive revenue and pay expenses for Datpiff.     
        
       5.      In May 2010, Frasier formed Idle Media and caused it to merge with a shell 
company.  At the same time, Frasier made Datpiff a wholly owned subsidiary of Idle Media.  
Zoeter received 40 million  shares of Idle Media stock, representing a 65% share, and thereby 
became the parent company of Idle Media.  Frasier became Idle Media’s CEO.  Datpiff was the 
primary revenue generating business of Idle Media.   
        
       6.      Following  Idle Media’s formation,  Zoeter and Datpiff shared employees, 
including  Frasier.  Zoeter continued  to pay the payroll  expenses for Datpiff employees and paid 
operating expenses, such as costs of servers, for both companies.   
 
                     Idle Media’s Restatement to Consolidate its Parent Company 
 
       7.      Subsequent to the company issuing  financial  statements in its Form 10-K for its 
2010 fiscal year and in its Form 10-Q for the first quarter ended December 31, 2010,  Idle Media 
discovered that it failed to record certain revenue and expenses generated by Datpiff but 
processed through Zoeter’s accounts.  On February 28, 2011,  Idle Media issued a Form 8-K 
announcing  its previously  issued financial  statements for the fiscal year ended September 30, 
2010 and the quarter ended December 31, 2010 should not be relied upon.  
 
       8.      Nearly a year later and without  having issued restated financial  statements, the 
company filed a Form 15 on March 8, 2012,  terminating  its SEC registration.   Three months 
later, however, the company filed a Form 10 to recommence registration.  In the Form 10 filed 
June 13, 2012, the company issued restated financial  statements for the fiscal year ended 
September 30, 2010.  However, the company did not correct its accounting  deficiencies resulting 
from the misallocation  of revenues and expenses between Datpiff and Zoeter.  Rather, the 
company consolidated  Zoeter’s financial  statements into those of Idle Media, claiming  Zoeter 
was a variable  interest entity (“VIE”) requiring  consolidation  by Idle Media.    
 
       10.     Idle Media issued consolidated  financial  statements in its Form 10-Q for the 
quarter ended June 30, 2012, filed on August 17, 2012, and in its Forms 10 and 10/A filed on 
June 13, 2012, July 31, 2012, September 25, 2012,  September 26, 2012,  and October 29, 2012, 
respectively.  Frasier signed and/or certified each of these reports.   
                                                        
                                                        
                                                        
                                                        
                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                      Idle Media’s Restatement to Correct Consolidation Errors 
                                                        
       11.     When Idle Media originally  reported its consolidated  financial  statements, it 
improperly  failed to consolidate  Zoeter’s accounts within  each financial  statement line  item and 
incorrectly  presented the impact of the noncontrolling  interest on Idle Media’s income.  Idle 
Media amended its Form 10 on September 25, 2012 to restate the form and contents of its 
consolidated  financial  statements.   
 
                          Idle Media’s Deconsolidation of its Parent Company 
            
       12.     Idle Media’s consolidation  of Zoeter was improper because Idle Media did not 
have a variable  interest in Zoeter.  Idle Media filed  a Form 8-K on January 15, 2013,  announcing 
it would restate its financial  statements again to deconsolidate  Zoeter and acknowledging  that its 
VIE accounting was incorrect.     
 
       13.     In December 2013, Idle Media issued restated financial  statements for fiscal years 
2010 and 2011 and related quarterly periods.  As a result of Idle Media’s improper  consolidation 
of Zoeter and its earlier revenue and expense allocation  errors between Datpiff and Zoeter, the 
company had materially  misstated revenue and net income by 18% and 24%, respectively,  for 
2010.  Idle Media had also materially  misstated net income by 24% for 2011.   
 
              Idle Media’s Failure to Maintain Adequate Books and Records 
                                                  
       14.     Throughout  the relevant period,  Idle Media failed to maintain  adequate books and 
records.  For example, Idle Media used Zoeter accounts for Datpiff’s operations without 
correctly allocating  revenue and expenses between the two companies.  Idle Media’s improper 
recording of revenue and expenses contributed  to its incorrect determination  that Zoeter’s 
financial  statements should  be consolidated  with those of Idle Media.   
 
       15.     Frasier knew that Idle Media failed to segregate its accounts from Zoeter’s 
accounts but failed to ensure that Idle Media properly allocated revenues and expenses to the 
correct entity. 
 
Idle Media’s Failure to Establish and Implement Adequate Internal Accounting Controls 
        
       16.     Throughout  the relevant period,  Idle Media did not maintain  adequate internal 
accounting  controls.  The company failed to maintain  any written policies  or take other 
meaningful  steps to ensure that the company reported its financial  results accurately.     
 
       17.     Idle Media announced in its Form 8-K filed on March 30, 2011 the existence of 
material weaknesses in the company’s internal control over financial  reporting  and that an 
assessment of those controls was being conducted.  The company,  however, failed to take 
adequate steps to improve  its internal control  over financial  reporting.   
 
       18.    Frasier was aware that the company failed to assess, implement,  evaluate, or 
maintain  adequate internal  accounting controls.  Although  these controls were his responsibility, 

                                                4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

he failed to take any action to address this issue and therefore caused Idle Media’s internal 
accounting  controls violations. 
        
                         Frasier Violated the Certification Provisions 
        
       19.     As Idle Media’s CEO, Frasier was required to sign certifications  each fiscal 
quarter and fiscal year pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 302 and Exchange Act Rule 13a-
14.  Frasier executed the certification  attached to Idle Media’s quarterly report for the period  
ended June 30, 2012.   
 
       20.     In the certification,  Frasier stated that he had designed,  or caused others to design, 
internal  control over financial  reporting  to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability 
of financial  reports and the presentation of financial  statements.  
 
       21.     Frasier’s certification  was untrue because Frasier did not design,  or cause others 
to design,  internal  control over financial  reporting. 
                                                   
                                            Violations 
 
       22.     As a result of the conduct described above, Idle Media violated Sections 12(g) and 
13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-13 thereunder.  Section 12(g), which contains 
an express voluntary registration provision,  requires that every issuer who seeks to register a class 
of equity securities pursuant to Section 12(g) must file a registration statement (e.g., on Form 10) 
containing  such information  and documents as the Commission  may specify.  In addition,  every 
issuer of such a registered class of securities that is required to file annual reports on Form 10-K 
pursuant to Section 13(a) is also required to file quarterly reports on Form 10-Q pursuant to the 
provisions  of Rule 13a-13 thereunder.  Finally,  Rule 12b-20 under the Exchange Act requires that 
such registration statements and quarterly reports contain such further material information  as may 
be necessary to make the required statements, in light of the circumstances under which they are 
made, not misleading. 
        
       23.     As a result of the conduct described above, Idle Media committed violations  of 
Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to make and keep 
books, records, and accounts, which in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their 
transactions and dispositions  of their assets. 
 
       24.     As a result of the conduct described above, Idle Media violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) 
of the Exchange Act, which requires all reporting companies to devise and maintain a system of 
internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions are 
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally 
accepted accounting principles. 
 
       25.     As a result of the conduct described above, Frasier caused Idle Media’s violations 
of Sections 12(g), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-13 and 
12b-20 thereunder.  Also as a result of the conduct described above, Frasier violated Rule 13a-14, 

                                                 5  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

which requires each principal executive officer of an issuer to include certain certifications in 
filings  made pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. 
                                                  
                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission  deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
 
       Accordingly,  pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.      Respondent Idle Media cease and desist from committing  or causing any violations 
and any future violations of Sections 12(g), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act 
and Rules 13a-13 and 12b-20 thereunder. 
 
       B.      Respondent Frasier cease and desist from committing  or causing any violations  and 
any future violations  of Sections 12(g), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and 
Rules 13a-13, 13a-14 and 12b-20 thereunder. 
 
       C.      Respondents Idle Media and Frasier shall each, within 10 days of the entry of this 
Order, pay a civil money penalty in the amount of $50,000  to the Securities and Exchange 
Commission  for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act 
Section 21F(g)(3).  If timely payment is not made, additional  interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 
U.S.C. 3717.  Payment must be made in one of the following  ways:   
 
               (1)    Respondents may transmit payment electronically  to the Commission, 
                      which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon 
                      request;  
                
               (2)    Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
                
               (3)    Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission  and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
               Enterprise Services Center 
               Accounts Receivable Branch 
               HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
               6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
               Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying  Idle 
Media and Frasier as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; 
a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Laura M. Metcalfe, Division  of 

                                                6  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission,  1961 Stout Street, Suite 1700, Denver, CO 
80294.   
        
       D.      Such civil  money penalties may be distributed pursuant to Section 308(a) of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (“Fair Fund distribution”).   Regardless of whether any 
such Fair Fund distribution  is made, amounts ordered to be paid as civil  money penalties pursuant 
to this Order shall be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including  all tax 
purposes.  To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil  penalty, Respondents agree that in any 
Related Investor Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, 
offset or reduction of any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of 
Respondents’ payment of a civil  penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset").  If the court in any 
Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that they shall, within 30 
days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's  counsel in this 
action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   Such 
a payment shall not be deemed an additional  civil  penalty and shall not be deemed to change the 
amount of the civil  penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related 
Investor Action" means a private damages action brought against Respondents by or on behalf of 
one or more investors based on substantially  the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the 
Commission  in this proceeding.   
                    
                                                     V. 
                                                       
       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S. C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by 
Respondent Frasier, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or 
other amounts due by Respondent Frasier under this Order or any other judgment,  order, consent 
order, decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the 
violation  by Respondent Frasier of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued 
under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 
                    
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
 
                                                      Brent J. Fields 
                                                      Secretary 
 
 

                                                  7  
