---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                              
 
                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                      Before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 71824 / March 27, 2014 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3546 / March 27, 2014 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15816 
 
                                             ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
In the Matter of                             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO SECTION 
                                             21C OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
      SHIRLEY KIANG                          OF 1934, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                             IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER  
Respondent. 
 
 
                                               
 
                                          I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Shirley Kiang (“Respondent”).   
                                            
                                          II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making 
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
 
 

 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
 
                                              III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds 1
                                                                                that: 
 
                                           Summary 
 
       From August 2008 to approximately June 2009, L&L Energy, Inc. (L&L), a Seattle   -
headquartered coal company with all of its operations in China – led by its Chairman of the Board 
and Chief Executive Officer, Dickson Lee – misrepresented in public filings with the Commission 
that a person served as the company’s Acting Chief Financial Officer when, in reality, she never did 
(hereinafter, the “purported Acting CFO”).  In May 2009,  the purported Acting CFO became aware 
that L&L had falsely represented her as the company’s actual Acting CFO and asked Shirley Kiang, 
who was then the company’s Audit Committee Chair and a Director, to investigate.  Kiang 
approached Lee regarding the purported Acting CFO’s allegations , and he told Kiang that the 
purported Acting CFO had never served as the company’s actual Acting CFO and to   not share this 
information with anyone, including the company’s Board of Directors and the public.  In August 
2009, L&L filed its Form 10-K for the 2009 fiscal year, and it included a false certification required 
under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”) that – based on Lee’s and the other 
certifying officer’s most recent evaluation of the company’s internal control over financial reporting 
– any fraud, whether or not material, involving management had been disclosed to the company’s 
auditors and the company’s Audit Committee.  Kiang signed this public filing as a Director and 
Audit Committee Chair when she knew or should have known that    the filing contained this false 
Sarbanes-Oxley certification.  
 
                                          Respondent 
 
       1.     Shirley Kiang, age 6 3, was associated with L&L from 1998 to August 2012 as a 
board member.  Kiang was also a member of L&L’s Audit Committee from its inception in July 
2008 through August 2012, and was the Audit Committee Chair from approximately July 2008 
through at least the filing of L&L’s 2009 Form 10-K on August 13, 2009.  Kiang is a U.S. citizen, 
currently living in Thailand. 

                                             Facts 
        
       2.     Beginning in approximately April 2008, L&L did not have a CFO, as its prior CFO 
had just resigned.  L&L, led by Lee, wanted to hire an Acting CFO and, to that end, thought of the 
purported Acting CFO, who had previously been associated with the company as an accountant 
from 1997 to 2004, and as a director until 2006. 

                                                 
1
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer and are not binding on any other 
person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                               2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       3.     In a July 14, 2008 email to Lee, the purported Acting CFO rejected an offer to 
become L&L’s Acting CFO.   

       4.     Notwithstanding this rejection, L&L falsely represented that the purported Acting 
CFO was the company’s actual Acting CFO in four separate public filings with the Commission, 
including the company’s Form 10-K for fiscal year 2008, and three subsequent Form 10-Qs for 
fiscal year 2009.  Each filing included a Sarbanes-Oxley certification with the purported Acting 
CFO’s digital signature that she had, among other things, attested to the accuracy of the company’s 
financial statements and the appropriateness of the company’s disclosure controls and procedures. 
The purported Acting CFO, however, never performed any such functions.   

       5.     In May 2009, the purported Acting CFO became aware that L&L h    ad falsely 
represented her as the company’s actual Acting CFO in the above-described filings and sent various 
emails to Lee, demanding an explanation.  In a May 19, 2009 email, Lee wrote to the purported 
Acting CFO that she “did not perform the work of the Acting CFO.” 

       6.     On May 21, 2009, the purported Acting CFO emailed Kiang, who was then the 
Chair of the company’s three person Audit Committee and member of the company’s Board of 
Directors.  Prior to this email, Kiang had no interaction with the purported Acting CFO with regard 
to any L&L business.  In the email, the purported Acting CFO told Kiang that she had a “serious 
and urgent” matter related to L&L’s filings that were made without her knowledge and asked her to 
investigate. 

       7.     Kiang subsequently contacted Lee and asked whether the purported Acting CFO had 
actually served as the company’s Acting CFO, and was informed that the purported Acting CFO 
had actually served as the company’s Acting CFO and was  making false allegations in an attempt to 
obtain money from the company.  Kiang contacted no one else, including anyone at the company or 
the company’s external auditors, to investigate whether the purported Acting CFO had actually 
served as the company’s Acting CFO. 

       8.     On June 4, 2009 – after receiving no response from Kiang – the purported Acting 
CFO emailed her again.  The purported Acting CFO asked whether Kiang had investigated the 
allegations that she had not actually served as the company’s Acting CFO, and in the email, 
included her July 14, 2008 email in which she rejected the offer to be L&L’s Acting CFO. 

       9.     After receiving the email, Kiang asked Lee for an explanation.  Lee told Kiang that 
the purported Acting CFO had not actually served as the company’s Acting CFO; that he had used 
the purported Acting CFO’s name on L&L’s public filings without the purported Acting CFO’s 
permission; told Kiang not to worry about it because it was in the past2
                                                                    ; told Kiang to not tell 
anyone about the purported Acting CFO  , including the company’s Board of Directors or the public; 
and that, if she shared this information with anyone, L&L’s reputation would be affected negatively 
and its stock price would drop. 
                                                 
2
       On June 23, 2009, L&L issued a Form 8- K in which it announced that it had hired a California resident as 
the company’s Acting CFO.  The California resident, unlike the purported Acting CFO, actually did perform the 
duties of a CFO.   

                                               3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       10.    On August 12, 2009, L&L filed its 2009 Form 10-K, which contained a false 
Sarbanes-Oxley certification that – based on Lee’s and the other certifying officer’s most recent 
evaluation of the company’s internal control over financial reporting – any fraud, whether or not 
material, involving management had been disclosed to the company’s auditors and to the 
company’s Audit Committee.  Kiang signed L&L’s 2009 Form 10-K as Audit Committee Chair and 
a Director, when she knew or should have known that any fraud, whether or not material, involving 
management had not been disclosed to the company’s auditors and the company’s  Audit 
Committee. 

                                           Violation 

       11.    Under Section 21C of the Exchange Act, the Commission may impose a cease-
and-desist order upon, among others, any person that is, was, or would be a cause of the 
violation, due to an act or omission the person knew or should have known would contribute to 
such violation of any provision of the Exchange Act. 

       12.    Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act requires issuers that have securities registered 
pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act to file such periodic and other reports as the 
Commission may prescribe and in conformity with such rules as the Commission may promulgate.  
Exchange Act Rule 13a-1 requires the filing of annual reports.  In addition to the information 
expressly required to be included in such reports, Rule 12b-20 under the Exchange Act requires 
issuers to add such further material information, if any, as may be necessary to make the required 
statements, in the light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading.  “The 
reporting provisions of the Exchange Act are clear and unequivocal, and they are satisfied only by 
the filing of complete, accurate, and timely reports.”  SEC v. Savoy Industries, 587 F.2d 1149, 1165 
(D.C. Cir. 1978) (citing SEC v. IMC Int’l, Inc.                      , 384 F. Supp. 889, 893 (N.D. Tex. 1974)).  A 
violation of the reporting provisions is established if a report is shown to contain materially false or 
misleading information. SEC v. Kalvex, Inc.                      , 425 F. Supp. 310, 316 (S.D.N.Y. 1975).   

       13.    L&L violated Exchange Act Section 13(a) and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-1 thereunder 
by filing an annual report – the 2009 Form 10-K – that included a false Sarbanes-Oxley certification 
that – based on the CEO’s and the other certifying officer’s most recent evaluation of the company’s 
internal control over financial reporting – any fraud, whether or not material, involving management 
had been disclosed to the company’s auditors and the company’s Audit Committee.                               

       14.    By engaging in the conduct described above, Kiang caused    L&L’s violations of 
Exchange Act Section 13(a) and Rules 12b- 20 and 13a-1 thereunder. 

                                              IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in the Respondent’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 

                                               4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       A.     Respondent Kiang cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
any future violations of Exchange Act Section 13(a) and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-1 promulgated 
thereunder. 

       B.     To effect compliance with the above-referenced provision and rules of the 
Exchange Act, Kiang permanently refrain from signing any Commission public filing that contains 
any certification required pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

 

By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                   Jill M. Peterson 
                                                   Assistant Secretary 
 

                                               5  
