---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 79394 / November 23, 2016 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3829 / November 23, 2016 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-15033 

                           
                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Michael K. Krohn, CPA  
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                           

        

       On September 18, 2012, Michael K. Krohn, CPA (“Krohn”) was suspended from 
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against Krohn pursuant to Rule 
                                                 1
102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice.   This order is issued in response to Krohn’s 
application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant 
responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed with the 
Commission. 

       In a civil action entitled Securities Exchange Commission v. The Companies (TC), LLC, 
et al., the court entered an order permanently enjoining Krohn from future violations of Sections 
5(a), 5(c), 17(a)(2), and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”).  In a complaint 
filed on August 6, 2012, the Commission alleged, among other things, that from January 2009 
through June 2011, The Companies (TC), LLC (“the Companies”), initiated four unregistered 
offerings of securities  
        
       The complaint alleged that Krohn, in violation of the federal securities laws and in 
connection with the sale of approximately $11.9 million of securities to approximately 169 investors, 
made material misrepresentations and omissions regarding, among other things, the value of 
company assets.  The alleged misrepresentations and omissions were contained in private placement 
memoranda (“PPMs”) used in unregistered offerings.  The complaint alleged that Krohn participated 

                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 3408 dated September 18, 2012.  Krohn was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after two years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                     

in drafting and providing content for the PPMs and solicited investors.  The complaint further alleged 
that the securities were not registered, in violation of the federal securities laws, because the PPMs 
wrongfully relied on Regulation D, Rule 506.  The complaint alleged that the offerings did not meet 
the Regulation D, Rule 506 requirements because the securities were offered through general 
solicitation.   
          
       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Krohn 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Krohn is not, at this time, seeking to appear 
or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume 
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be 
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Krohn’s 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
                                                          2
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”   This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Krohn, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the September 18, 2012 order 
suspending him from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 
and that Krohn, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in his 
practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 
        
        
        
        
        

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this rule may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a hearing; 
however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated by the 
Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
 

                                                 2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                                 

        
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Michael K. Krohn, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                             
                                             
                                             
                                            Brent J. Fields  
                                            Secretary  
                                             

                                               3 
