---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                        Before the  
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 72921 / August 26, 2014 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3577 / August 26, 2014 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-12817 

                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Paul R. Venesky, CPA   
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                          
        

       On September 20 , 2007, Paul R. Venesky, CPA (“Venesky”) was suspended from 
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against Venesky pursuant to Rule 
102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice.1
                                                   This order is issued in response to 
Venesky’s application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 

       The Commission found that Venesky   had been permanently enjoined by a United States 
District Court from future violations of Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1, and 13b2- 2 thereunder, and aiding and 
abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 
12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder.  In its complaint in the injunctive action, the 
Commission alleged, among other things, that Venesky, in his role as the controller of OMG 
Americas (“OMGA”), aided and abetted fraudulent accounting practices in September 2001 and 
prior.2
        This conduct resulted in OM Group, Inc. (“OM”) filin g materially false and misleading 
financial statements in the company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
December 31, 2001 and, in part, the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002.  According to the 
complaint, Venesky recorded numerous erroneous and unsupported accounting entries at the 

                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 2722 dated September 20, 2007.  Venesky was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after three years upon making certain showings. 
2
 OMG Americas was a wholly owned subsidiary of OM. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                    

direction of OM’s former Chief Financial Officer and former Controller to OMGA’s books and 
records, which were consolidated into OM’s financial statements. These accounting practices 
allegedly included, among other things, recording inaccurate inventory estimates, and recording 
erroneous journal entries related to certain litigation involving OMGA. In addition, the complaint 
alleges that Venesky, in part, failed to provide sufficient information to OM’s independent 
auditor about the accounting entries and estimates. 
        
       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Venesky     
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Venesky   is not, at this tim e, seeking to 
appear or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to 
resume appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will 
be required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Venesky’s  
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard   in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”    3
                                                             This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Venesky  , it appears that he has complied with the terms of the September 20, 2007 order 
suspending him from appearing or  practicing  before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 
and that Venesky , by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee 
of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in 
his practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to 
be filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is 
accordingly, 
 
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that Paul 
R. Venesky, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 

                                                 
3
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and u ntil the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
 

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                                   

accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                              
                                              
                                             Jill M. Peterson  
                                             Assistant Secretary  

                                                3 
