---------------------Page 1---------------------

                               UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                             Before the 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  73770 / December 8, 2014 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3605 / December 8, 2014 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-16301 
 
                                                    ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC   
                                                    ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE - 
                                                    AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS 
In the Matter of                                    PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 4C AND 21C 
                                                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
Joseph Yafeh CPA, Inc.,                             OF 1934 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                     COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
Respondent.                                        
                                                                                                    
                                                                            
 
 
                                                
                                                   
                                                  I. 
 
        The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Joseph 
                                                                      1
Yafeh CPA, Inc. (“Respondent” or “Yafeh”) pursuant to Sections 4C  and 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
        2
Practice. 

                                                   
1
       Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
               The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the 
               privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . 
               (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character 
               or integrity, or to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have 
               willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the securities 
               laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
2
       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
               The Commission may censure a person or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
               appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical 
               or improper professional conduct. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                     
                                                   II. 
 
        In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making 
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth 
below.  
                                                     
                                                  III. 
 
                                                                                             3
                On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that: 
 
A.      SUMMARY 
         
        This matter concerns violations of the Commission’s auditor independence rules by Yafeh.   
Yafeh audited the annual financial statements that were filed with the Commission for 
approximately 22 broker-dealer audit clients for the fiscal years 2010, 2011, and/or 2012.  For at 
least one of the audits of those clients during that time period, Yafeh was not independent under 
auditor independence criteria established by the Commission and made applicable by Exchange 
                                                         4
Act Rule 17a-5(f)(3) to audits of brokers and dealers.       As a result of this conduct, Yafeh engaged 
in improper professional conduct, violated the auditor independence rules, and caused each of the 
broker  -dealers’ failure to file an annual report audited by an independent accountant. 
 
B.      RESPONDENT 

        Respondent Yafeh, a professional corporation, is an accounting and auditing firm 
registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) with its office in 
Los Angeles, California.  Yafeh has one professional staff member, plus one administrative staff 
member.   
 

                                                 
3
        The findings are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other 
person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
 
4
        The provisions of Exchange Act Rule 17a-5 referred to herein are those in effect during, and applicable to, 
the relevant conduct.  On July 30, 2013, the Commission adopted certain amendments to Rule 17a-5. See Broker-
Dealer Reports, SEC Exchange Act Release No. 34-70073 (July 30, 2013), 78 Fed. Reg. 51910 (Aug. 21, 2013).  
Among other things, the amendments to Rule 17a-5 require that audits of brokers and dealers be performed in 
accordance with Public Company Accounting Oversight Board standards, effective for audits of fiscal years ending 
on or after June 1, 2014.  The auditor independence requirement of Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X applied to broker-
dealer audits both before and after the July 30, 2013 amendments.    At the time of the relevant conduct, prior to the 
amendments, that requirement was set out in Rule 17a-5(f)(3).  It is now set out in Rule 17a-5(f)(1). 

                                                    2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
C.     FACTS 
        
               1.     Lack of Independence 
        
              a.      During fiscal years 2010 through 2012 (the “Relevant Period”), Yafeh 
served as the independent public accountant for approximately 22 broker-dealer audit clients.  In 
connection with at least one audit performed for each of those broker-dealer audit clients during 
the Relevant Period, Yafeh prepared the financial statements and/or notes to the financial 
statements that were filed with the Commission on Form X-17A-5.  
 
               b.     For example, with respect to one of its broker-dealer clients (“Broker-
Dealer A”), Yafeh audited the annual financial statements for Broker-Dealer A for the fiscal year 
ending 2011.  During the audit, Broker-Dealer A provided Yafeh with financial statements 
prepared from Quickbooks accounting software.  Yafeh reviewed and tested these documents, 
and the financial data contained therein, as part of the audit. Yafeh then utilized the information 
contained in these documents to create and revise a set of financial statements to be filed with the 
Commission.  In particular, Yafeh personnel working on Yafeh computers typed and updated the 
new set of financial statements, including the notes to the financial statements and the cash flow 
statement.  Yafeh then provided the set of financial statements it had prepared to Broker-Dealer 
A’s management for approval. 
 
               c.     In February 2012, Broker-Dealer A filed with the Commission a Form X-
17A-5 Part III for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. Included in that filing is an audit 
report signed by Yafeh and stating, among other things, that Yafeh’s audit of Broker-Dealer A 
was conducted “in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of 
America.” 
               d.     Yafeh engaged in substantially similar conduct in connection with at least 
one audit for approximately 21 additional broker-dealer clients during the relevant period. 
 
       2.      Violations 
 
       a.      Section 17(e)(1)(A) of the Exchange Act requires that every registered broker or 
dealer “annually file with the Commission a balance sheet and income statement certified by an 
independent public accounting firm, or by a registered public accounting firm if the firm is 
required to be registered under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, prepared on a calendar or fiscal 
year basis, and such other financial statements (which shall, as the Commission specifies, be 
certified) and information concerning its financial condition as the Commission, by rule may 
prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.” 
 
       b.      Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(e)(1)(i) states: “An audit shall be conducted by a public 
accountant who shall be in fact independent as defined in paragraph (f)(3) of this section herein, 
and he shall give an opinion covering the statements filed pursuant to paragraph (d) . . . .” 
Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(f)(3) further states that, for such audits, “[a]n accountant shall be 
independent in accordance with the provisions of Rule 2-01(b) and (c) of Regulation S-X.”   
 

                                                3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       c.      Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(g) requires that “[t]he audit shall be made in accordance 
with generally accepted auditing standards” and Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(i) requires that “[t]he 
accountant’s report shall . . . [s]tate whether the audit was made in accordance with generally 
accepted auditing standards.”  Generally accepted auditing standards (“GAAS”) require auditors to 
maintain strict independence from their audit clients; an auditor “must be free from any obligation 
to or interest in the client, its management or its owners.”  See Statement on Auditing Standard No. 
1, Section 220.03.  Accordingly, if an auditor’s report states that its audit was performed in 
accordance with GAAS when the auditor was not independent, then it has violated Exchange Act 
Rule 17a-5(i).  See In the Matter of Rosenberg Rich Baker Berman & Company and Brian Zucker, 
CPA, Exchange Act Release No. 69765 at p. 5 (June 14, 2013).   
 
       d.      Rule 2-01(c)(4) of Regulation S-X provides that accountants are not independent if, 
at any point during the audit and professional engagement period, the accountant provides 
prohibited non-audit services to an audit client.  Rule 2-01(c)(4)(i) of Regulation S-X provides that 
prohibited non-audit services include bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting 
records or financial statements of the audit client, and defines such services as:   
 
       Any service, unless it is reasonable to conclude that the results of these services will not be 
       subject to audit procedures during an audit of the audit client's financial statements, 
       including: 
                            
           (A) Maintaining or preparing the audit client's accounting records; 
            
           (B) Preparing the audit client's financial statements that are filed with the Commission 
               or that form the basis of financial statements filed with the Commission; or 
            
           (C) Preparing or originating source data underlying the audit client's financial 
               statements. 
 
       e.      Rule 2-01(c)(4)(i) of Regulation S-X specifically prohibits an audit firm from 
preparing an audit client’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  In this context, 
preparing financial statements includes but is not limited to:  aggregating line items from internal 
books and records to the financial statements; changing line item descriptions; drafting or editing 
notes to the financial statements; and converting FOCUS reports or bookkeeping software program 
reports into financial statements.  With respect to the audit of Broker-Dealer A and the additional 
audits in which Yafeh engaged in substantially similar conduct, Yafeh engaged in one or more of 
the above prohibited actions.  
 
       f.      As a result of Yafeh’s conduct in preparing the financial statements, including the 
notes thereto, Yafeh was not independent of its broker-dealer audit clients under the independence 
criteria established by Rule 2-01(c)(4) of Regulation S-X, which Exchange Act Rule 17a-5 made 
applicable to the audits of broker-dealer financial statements.  As the Commission explained in 
adopting Rule 2-01(c)(4), providing such services for an audit client “impairs the auditor’s 
independence because the auditor will be placed in the position of auditing the firm’s work when 
auditing the client’s financial statements. . . .  In addition, keeping the books is a management 
function, the performance of which leads to an inappropriate mutuality of interests between the 

                                                 4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

auditor and the audit client.”  Revision of the Commission’s Auditor Independence Requirements, 
Exchange Act Release No. 43602, at IV.D.4.b(i) (November 21, 2000).  See also Strengthening the 
Commission’s Requirements Regarding Auditor Independence, Exchange Act Release No. 47265 
(“keeping the books is a management function, which also is prohibited”)(January 28, 2003). 
 
       g.      Yafeh violated Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(i) by representing in its audit report that it 
had performed the audits of the broker-dealers’ financial statements in accordance with GAAS 
when in fact, because of the independence impairment described above, the audit had not been 
performed in accordance with GAAS. 
 
       h.      Exchange Act Section 17(a) and Rule 17a-5 require broker-dealers to file annual 
reports containing financial statements audited by independent public accountants.  No showing of 
scienter is necessary to establish a violation of Exchange Act Section 17(a).  See In the Matter of 
Orlando Joseph Jett, Exchange Act Release No. 49366 at n.45 (March 5, 2004) (citing SEC v 
Drexel Burham Lambert Inc., 837 F. Supp. 587, 610 (S.D.N.Y. 1993); Stead v. SEC, 444 F.2d 713, 
          th
716-17 (10  Cir. 1971), cert denied, 404 U.S. 1059 (1972)).   
 
       i.      Under Section 21C of the Exchange Act, a person is a “cause” of another’s primary 
violation if the person knew or should have known that his act or omission would contribute to the 
primary violation.  Negligence is sufficient to establish “causing” liability under Section 21C when 
a person is alleged to have caused a primary violation that does not require scienter.  In re KPMG 
Peat Marwick, Exch. Act. Rel. No. 43862 (Jan. 19, 2001), aff’d, KPMG v. SEC, 289 F.3d 109 
(D.C. Cir. 2002).  
 
       j.      Yafeh caused its broker-dealer audit clients to violate Exchange Act Section 17(a) 
and Rule 17a-5.  Respondent, an audit firm registered with the PCAOB and operated by a  
Certified Public Accountant, knew or should have known that its conduct, including incorrectly 
stating in audit reports that the audits were conducted in accordance with GAAS, contributed to its 
audit clients’ violations of Exchange Act Section 17(a) and Rule 17a-5.        
 
       k.      Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice allows the Commission to 
censure a person if it finds that such person has engaged in “improper professional conduct.”  
Exchange Act § 4C(a)(2); Rule 102(e)(1)(ii).  Rule 102(e) defines improper professional conduct, 
in part, as:  “[a] single instance of highly unreasonable conduct that results in a violation of 
applicable professional standards in circumstances in which the registered public accounting firm 
or associated person knows, or should know, that heightened scrutiny is warranted.”  Exchange Act 
§ 4C(b)(2); Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B). 
        
       l.      Questions regarding an auditor’s independence always warrant heightened scrutiny.  
See Amendment to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 63 Fed. Reg. 57,164, 
57168 (Oct. 26, 1998) (codified at 17 C.F.R. Part 201).  The Commission has defined the “highly 
unreasonable” standard as: 
 
       an intermediate standard, higher than ordinary negligence but lower than the traditional 
       definition of recklessness used in cases brought under Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act 
       and Rule 10b-5 of the Exchange Act.  The highly unreasonable standard is an objective 

                                                5 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       standard. The conduct at issue is measured by the degree of the departure from professional 
       standards and not the intent of the accountant.   
 
Id. at 57,167;  see also In the Matter of Ernst & Young LLP, Admin. Proc. File No. 3-10933, SEC 
Initial Decision Release No. 249, at 60 (Apr. 16, 2004). 
 
       m.     Based on the conduct set forth above, Yafeh engaged in highly unreasonable 
conduct that resulted in violations of applicable professional standards when it knew or should 
have known that heightened scrutiny was required. 
 
       3.     Findings 
 
       a.     Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Yafeh engaged in improper 
professional conduct pursuant to Exchange Act Section 4C(a)(2) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
       b.     Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Yafeh committed violations of 
Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(i) and caused approximately 22 broker-dealers’ violations of Section 
17(a) and Rule 17a-5 promulgated thereunder. 
 
       4.      Respondent’s Remedial Efforts and Cooperation 
 
       In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered the remedial acts 
undertaken by Respondent and the cooperation afforded the Commission staff.  As part of its 
remediation,  Respondent has already implemented or begun to implement some of the 
Undertakings listed below. 
 
       5.     Undertakings 
                                                 
       Yafeh undertakes: 
 
       a.      within ninety (90) days from the date of the Order, to establish written policies 
and procedures, or to revise and/or supplement existing written policies and procedures, for the 
purpose of providing Yafeh with reasonable assurance of compliance with applicable 
independence requirements, including those requirements of Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X 
applicable to an SEC Registered Broker-Dealer Engagement (defined to mean an engagement to 
provide a report – whether an audit report, an examination report, or a review report – required 
under Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(d)(1)(i)(C), as amended); 
        
       b.     within ninety (90) days from the date of the Order, to establish a policy of 
ensuring training, whether internal or external, on an annual or more frequent regular basis, 
concerning applicable independence requirements, including those requirements of Rule 2-01 of 
Regulation S-X applicable to an SEC Registered Broker-Dealer Engagement, of any Firm audit 
personnel who participate in any way in the planning or performing of any SEC Registered 
Broker-Dealer Engagement; 
        

                                               6 
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

       c.      within ninety (90) days from the date of the Order and before Yafeh’s 
commencement of any SEC Registered Broker-Dealer Engagement (or, where Yafeh by the date 
of this Order has already commenced but not completed such an engagement, before Yafeh’s 
release of its report), to ensure training pursuant to the policy described in paragraph (5)(b) 
above has been provided on at least one occasion; 
        
       d.     to provide a copy of the Order –  
        
              (i)     within thirty (30) days from the date of the Order, to all audit personnel 
employed by, or associated with (as defined in PCAOB Rule 1001(p)(i)), Yafeh as of the date of 
the Order; and 
        
              (ii)    within thirty (30) days from the date of the Order, to any client of Yafeh as 
of the date of the Order for which Yafeh has performed or has been engaged to perform an SEC 
Registered Broker-Dealer Engagement; and 
        
       e.     to certify in writing to Stephen L. Cohen, Associate Director, Division of 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549-
5553, Doe’s compliance with paragraphs 5(a) through 5(d)(ii). The certification shall identify the 
undertakings, provide written evidence of compliance in the form of a narrative, and be 
supported by exhibits sufficient to demonstrate compliance.  Yafeh shall submit such 
certification within one hundred twenty (120) days from the date of the Order.  Yafeh shall also 
submit such additional evidence of and information concerning compliance as the staff of the 
Division of Enforcement may reasonably request. 
 
                                               IV. 
                                                 
       On the basis of the foregoing, Respondent hereby consents to the entry of an Order by the 
Commission that: 
 
       A.     Yafeh is hereby censured. 
        
       B.     Yafeh shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Section 17(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 17a-5 promulgated thereunder. 
 
       C.     Yafeh shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in Section (III)(C)(5) 
above. 
        
       D.     Yafeh shall pay civil penalties of $20,000 to the Securities and Exchange 
Commission.  Payment shall be made in the following installments:  $10,000 within ten days of 
the entry of this Order and $10,000 in three quarterly installments of $3,333.33 beginning 120 
days after the entry of the Order and continuing thereafter at 120-day intervals until the three 
quarterly payment schedule is complete.  If any payment is not made by the date the payment is 
required by this Order, the entire outstanding balance of civil penalties, plus any additional 
interest pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, shall be due and payable immediately, without further 
application.  Payment must be made in one of the following ways:   

                                                7 
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 
              (1)    Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, 
                     which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon 
                              
                     request; 
        
              (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                     through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
        
              (3)     Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                     States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                     Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
                     Enterprise Services Center 
                     Accounts Receivable Branch 
                     HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                     6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                     Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Yafeh as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of 
the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Stephen L. Cohen, Division of 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE, Washington, DC 20549-
5553. 
 
 
       By the Commission. 

 
 
 
                                                  Brent J. Fields 
                                                  Secretary 
 

                                              8 
 
