---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                             Before the 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 71484 / February 5, 2014 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3532 / February 5, 2014 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15741 
 
                                                           
In the Matter of                                          ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                          ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
        LAWRENCE A. O’DONNELL          AND IMPOSING TEMPORARY 
                                                      SUSPENSION PURSUANT TO RULE 
                                                          102(e)(3) OF THE COMMISSION’S 
                                                                                        

                                                        
                                                  I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to 
               1
Rule 102(e)(3)   of the Commission’s Rules of Practice against Lawrence A. O’Donnell 
(“Respondent” or “O’Donnell”). 
 
                                                  II. 
 
       The Commission finds that: 
        
       A.     RESPONDENT 
 
               1.      O’Donnell, age 61, was licensed as a certified public accountant (“CPA”) by 
the State of Colorado from July 28, 1977, through October 8, 2010.  He audited and reviewed the 
financial statements included in annual and other reports and registration statements filed with the 

                                                 
1
       Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and      without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an act ion brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 

 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Commission by Imperiali, Inc. from October 19, 2006, through May 1, 2009. 
   
       B.     CIVIL INJUNCTION 
   
               2.      On November 8, 2013, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of 
Florida entered a final judgment against O’Donnell, permanently enjoining him from future 
violations, direct or indirect, of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 
10b-5 thereunder.  Securities and Exchange Commission v. Imperiali, Inc., et al., Civil Action 
Number 9:12-cv-80021-KLR. 
        
               3.      The Commission’s complaint alleged that, while serving as Imperiali, Inc.’s 
auditor from May 2006 through March 2008, O’Donnell participated in a fraudulent scheme by 
issuing false audit reports on Imperiali financial statements.  The financial statements, which 
appeared in annual and other reports and registration statements filed with the Commission, listed 
values for worthless assets in amounts ranging from $3.5 million to $269 million and failed to 
disclose the issuance of five million shares of restricted stock.  O’Donnell’s audit reports falsely 
stated that Imperiali’s financial statements were presented in conformity with generally accepted 
accounting principles and falsely stated that his audits were conducted in accordance with Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board Standards. 
                
                                               III. 
        
       Based upon the foregoing, the Commission finds that a court of competent jurisdiction has 
permanently enjoined O’Donnell, a CPA, from violating the Federal securities laws within the 
meaning of Rule 102(e)(3)(i)(A) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  In view of these findings, 
the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest that O’Donnell be temporarily 
suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission. 
   
       IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that O’Donnell be, and hereby is, temporarily suspended from 
appearing or practicing before the Commission.  This Order shall be effective upon service on the 
Respondent. 
 
       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that O’Donnell may within thirty days after service of this 
Order file a petition with the Commission to lift the temporary suspension.  If the Commission 
within thirty days after service of the Order receives no petition, the suspension shall become 
permanent pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(ii). 
  

                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       If a petition is received within thirty days after service of this Order, the Commission shall, 
within thirty days after the filing of the petition, either lift the temporary suspension, or set the 
matter down for hearing at a time and place to be designated by the Commission, or both.  If a 
hearing is ordered, following the hearing, the Commission may lift the suspension, censure the 
petitioner, or disqualify the petitioner from appearing or practicing before the Commission for a 
period of time, or permanently, pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(iii). 
 
       This Order shall be served upon O’Donnell personally or by certified mail at his last known 
address. 
        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                       Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                       Secretary 
 
  
 
 
 

                                                  3  
