---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                          Before the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 73610 / November 14, 2014 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3599 / November 14, 2014 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16279 
                                                  
                                                  
In the Matter of                                 ORDER INSTITUTING  
                                                 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
MARK SMITH, CPA                                  PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                  COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE,
Respondent.                                                                                 
                                                                             
 
 
 
                                               I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to 
                                                                               1
Rule 102(e)(3) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice [17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(3)] against Mark 
Smith (“Respondent”).   
                                                
                                              II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by order, . . . 
suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has been by name . . . permanently 
enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the 
Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of 
the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

proceedings and the findings contained in Section III.2 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                               III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
       1.      Smith, 50 years old, is a resident of Allen, Texas.  Since 2006, he has been a co-
principal of Yorkdale Capital, LLC (“Yorkdale”) with his brother Charles Elliot Smith.  From at 
least 2006 to the present, Smith has also been a self-employed accountant, doing business under 
the name AM Group.  Smith obtained his CPA certificate in Massachusetts in 1989, which he kept 
current until 1991.  He does not hold a CPA certificate or license in Texas. 
        
       2.      On October 31, 2014, the Commission filed a complaint against Smith and his 
brother in Securities and Exchange Commission v. Charles Elliot Smith, et al., Civil Action 
Number 3:14-cv-03874-D, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas.   
On October 31, 2014, the court entered an order permanently enjoining Smith, by consent, from 
future violations of Section 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) [15 
U.S.C. §§ 77q(a)(2) and (3)] and Rule 13b2-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Exchange Act”) [17 C.F.R. § 240.13b2-1], and from aiding and abetting violations of Sections 
13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 15(d) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(a), 78m(b)(2)(A) and 78o(d)] 
and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, 13a-13, 13b2-2, 15d-1, and 15d-13 thereunder [17 C.F.R. §§ 
240.12b-20, 240.13a-1, 240.13a-11, 240.13a-13, 240.13b2-2, 240.15d-1, and 240.15d-13], 
ordering him to pay, jointly and severally with Charles Smith, disgorgement with prejudgment 
interest of $78,750.52, to pay a civil penalty of $50,000, and imposing a three-year penny stock 
bar. 
        
       3.      The Commission’s complaint alleged that, among other things, since at least 2006, 
Smith, along with his brother Charles Smith, Yorkdale and other affiliates, formed and operated at 
least eight publicly-traded shell companies and caused four of the shell companies to be sold 
through reverse merger transactions, all without complying with the Commission’s rules and 
regulations applicable to shell company registration and reporting.  The complaint further alleged 
that Smith prepared filings with the Commission, financial statements and communications to 
auditors that contained materially false or misleading statements or omissions, including, among 
other things, fraudulent statements or omissions concerning control of the shell companies by 
Smith, his brother Charles Smith, Yorkdale and/or their affiliates, misstatements about the intended 
uses of proceeds from the securities offerings, misstatements about the role of the named officers 
and directors of the companies, and omissions concerning the compensation to be paid to Smith, 
Charles Smith, Yorkdale and their affiliates. 
 

                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Smith’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice, 
        
               A.     Respondent is suspended from appearing or practicing before the 
       Commission as an accountant. 
                
               B.     After three years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that 
       the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office 
       of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
        
                      1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
               review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the 
               Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s 
               work in his/her practice before the Commission will be reviewed either by the 
               independent audit committee of the public company for which he/she works or in 
               some other acceptable manner, as long as he/she practices before the Commission 
               in this capacity; and/or 
                            
                      2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
               Commission that: 
        
                              a.      Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he/she 
                    is associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight 
                    Board (“Board” ) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and 
                    such registration continues to be effective; 
                               
                              b.      Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with 
                    which he/she is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that 
                    inspection did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the 
                    respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that the 
                    respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
                               
                              c.      Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the 
                    Board, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions 
                    imposed by the Board (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
                               
                              d.      Respondent acknowledges his/her responsibility, as long as 
                    Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent 
                    accountant, to comply with all requirements of the Commission and the 

                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                     Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, 
                     inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards. 
        
       The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his/her state CPA license is current and he/she has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, if 
state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an 
application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in 
addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, 
integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
        
 
 
                                                      Brent J. Fields 
                                                      Secretary 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                 4  
