---------------------Page 1---------------------

                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                           Before the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 76536 / December 2, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3718 / December 2, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16976 
 
                                                     
                                                    ORDER INSTITUTING  PUBLIC 
                                                    ADMINISTRATIVE AND  CEASE-AND-
In the Matter of                                    DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
                                                    SECTION S 4C AND 21C OF THE 
       Grant Thornton , LLP,                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, 
                                                    AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
Respondent.                                         COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE
                                                                         
                                                                                                  
                                                                              
       

                                                
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative  and  cease-and-desist  proceedings  be,  and  hereby  are,  instituted  pursuant  to 
           1
Sections 4C   and   21C   of   the   Securities   Exchange   Act   of   1934   (“Exchange   Act”)  and 
                                                         2
Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice  against Grant Thornton, LLP (“Grant 
Thornton” or “Respondent”).  

                                                 
1
 Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  

       The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, 
       to any person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in 
       any way, if that person is found . . . (2) . . .  to have engaged in unethical or 
       improper prof essional conduct. 
2
 Rule 102(e)(1) provides, in relevant part:  

              The Commission may censure a person . . . who is found . . .  

                                              * * *  

              (ii) to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct. 

 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                   
                                                II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (“Offer”) that the Commission has determined to accept.  Respondent admits the 
facts set forth in Sections III.B, C, and E through F below, acknowledges that its conduct in the 
course of its Assisted Living Concepts, Inc. and Broadwind Energy, Inc. engagements violated the 
federal securities laws, admits the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative and 
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing 
Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (the “Order”), as set forth below.  
 
                                                III. 
                                                   
                                                                                 3
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds     that:  
        
A.     SUMMARY 
        
       1.      This matter involves improper professional conduct by Grant Thornton while 
serving as the auditor of two clients of Grant Thornton’s Wisconsin practice:  Assisted Living 
Concepts, Inc. (“ALC”), a publicly traded senior living company, and Broadwind Energy, Inc. 
(“Broadwind”), a publicly traded alternative energy company.  During the course of its 
engagements, Grant Thornton repeatedly violated professional standards while ignoring repeated 
red flags and fraud risks that allowed ALC and Broadwind to file numerous reports with the 
Commission that were materially false and misleading.  

                                                                                                                                                             
                                               * * * 

               (iv) with respect to persons licensed to practice as accountants, “improper 
               professional conduct” under Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) means:  

                                               * * * 

               (B) either of the following two types of negligent conduct:  

                       (1) A single instance of highly unreasonable conduct that results in a 
                       violation of applicable professional standards in circumstances in which an 
                       accountant knows, or should know, that heightened scrutiny is warranted. 

                       (2) Repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a 
                       violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of 
                       competence to practice before the Commission. 
3
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding 
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                                   

                                                 2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       2.     For the ALC engagement, for more than three years and under the leadership of two 
engagement partners, Grant Thornton failed to identify a fraud perpetrated by ALC’s CEO and 
CFO.  That long-running fraud was designed to mask ALC’s defaults on certain occupancy and 
revenue covenants that had significant financial consequences for ALC in the event of non-
compliance.  As a result of the fraud and Grant Thornton’s failed audits, for three years ALC 
falsely represented to its investors that it was meeting the covenants and avoiding the serious 
ramifications of the defaults. 

       3.     For the Broadwind engagement, Grant Thornton’s failure to exercise due 
professional care and skepticism contributed to Broadwind improperly omitting from its financial 
statements that it had sustained a $58 million impairment charge caused by the severe deterioration 
of customer relationships for two of Broadwind’s most important customers.  Grant Thornton’s 
failures also contributed to Broadwind conducting a public offering for its stock which concealed 
this impairment charge from investors.  Grant Thornton’s negligence further contributed to 
Broadwind filing multiple financial statements which materially overstated revenue to 
Broadwind’s investors.     

       4.     Grant Thornton’s failed ALC and Broadwind engagements were indicative of 
systemic quality issues and failures to adhere to professional standards on engagements of clients 
of Grant Thornton’s Wisconsin practice.  In particular, Grant Thornton had received numerous 
warnings of quality issues involving the managing partner of the Wisconsin practice.  Despite these 
warnings, Grant Thornton allowed that managing partner to continue to audit public companies, 
including ALC and Broadwind, and failed to take the appropriate remedial steps that could have 
stopped ALC’s and Broadwind’s repeated false and misleading statements to their investors.        

B.     RESPONDENT 
        
       5.     Grant Thornton is an Illinois limited liability partnership and a PCAOB-registered 
public accounting firm with its headquarters in Chicago, Illinois.  The conduct at issue occurred in 
the course of audits and reviews of clients of Grant Thornton’s Wisconsin practice. 
               
C.     RELEVANT GRANT THORNTON PROFESSIONALS  
        
       6.     Melissa K. Koeppel (“Koeppel”), age 54, is a Certified Public Accountant 
(“CPA”) licensed to practice in Wisconsin.  Koeppel served as the managing partner of Grant 
Thornton’s Wisconsin practice from 2008 through April 2011.  Koeppel served as the Grant 
Thornton engagement partner on, and had final audit responsibility over, the ALC engagements 
from 2006 through 2010 and the Broadwind engagements from 2007 through the second quarter of 
2010.  Since 2012, Koeppel has been employed by Grant Thornton as a managing director, outside 
the audit-services practice. 

       7.     Jeffrey J. Robinson (“Robinson”), age 63, is a CPA licensed to practice in Illinois 
and Wisconsin.  Robinson served as the managing partner of Grant Thornton’s Wisconsin practice 
from April 2011 through July 2015, when he retired.  Robinson served as the Grant Thornton 
engagement partner on, and had final audit responsibility over, the ALC engagements from 2011 

                                                 

                                               3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

through the first quarter of 2013, when ALC terminated its relationship with Grant Thornton upon 
ALC’s acquisition by another company.     

D.     OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES 

       8.     ALC was a Nevada corporation with its principal place of business in Menomonee 
Falls, Wisconsin.  Between November 2006 and July 2013, ALC’s common stock was registered 
with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and traded on the New York 
Stock Exchange.  In February 2013, ALC agreed to be sold to a global private equity firm.  In July 
2013, when the sale was completed, ALC’s stock ceased trading on the NYSE.   

       9.     Broadwind is an alternative energy company incorporated in Delaware and 
headquartered in Cicero, Illinois.  In October 2007, Broadwind purchased Brad Foote Gear Works, 
Inc. (“Brad Foote”) to provide gear systems for the wind turbine and other energy industries.  
Broadwind’s common stock was quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board until April 9, 2009, when its 
common stock began trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market.  Broadwind’s common stock 
is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act.  On February 5, 
2015, the Commission filed a settled action in the Northern District of Illinois against Broadwind 
and its former CEO and CFO for Broadwind’s failure to record and disclose a $58 million 
impairment charge prior to a public offering in January 2010.  The SEC also charged Broadwind 
and its officers with violations arising from accelerated revenue recognition practices and 
inadequate disclosures ahead of the offering.  Broadwind consented to a judgment enjoining it 
from violating Section 17(a)(2) of the Securities Act and Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder and imposing a 
civil penalty of $1 million.  The former CEO and CFO also consented to a judgement that enjoined 
them from future securities laws violations, and imposed disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and 
civil penalties.  The district court entered the proposed judgments associated with the settlement on 
February 11, 2015.  See SEC v. Broadwind Energy, Inc., et al., Case No. 15-cv-1142 (N.D. Ill.). 

E.     GRANT THORNTON’S AUDITS AND REVIEWS OF ALC 

              1.   ALC and the Ventas Lease 
                   
       10.    During the relevant time period, ALC operated more than 200 senior living 
residences in the United States, totaling more than 9,000 units.  On January 1, 2008, ALC 
purchased the operations of eight assisted living facilities for a total of 540 units in Alabama, 
Florida, Georgia, and South Carolina (the “Ventas facilities”) and simultaneously entered into a 
lease with Ventas, Inc. (“Ventas”), a publicly traded real estate investment trust (“REIT”) and the 
owner of the facilities, to operate the facilities (the “Ventas lease”).  

       11.    The Ventas lease contained financial covenants (the “financial covenants”), which 
required that ALC maintain certain quarterly and trailing twelve-month occupancy percentages and 
coverage ratios, both at each facility and at the portfolio level.  The lease defined “coverage ratio” 
as cash flow divided by rent payments. The Ventas lease required ALC to demonstrate its 
compliance with the financial covenants on a quarterly basis by providing Ventas, within 45 days 
of the end of each quarter: (1) facility financial statements prepared in accordance with general 

                                                 

                                               4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”); (2) schedules documenting compliance with the 
financial covenants; and (3) an officer’s certificate, signed by an ALC executive, attesting to the 
completeness and accuracy of such information.   

       12.    The lease provided that if ALC violated any of the financial covenants, Ventas 
could: (1) terminate the lease in its entirety; (2) evict ALC from all eight facilities; and (3) require 
ALC to pay accelerated rent equal to the net present value of the unpaid rent for the remaining term 
of the lease.  ALC disclosed the net present value of its unpaid rent, as of its 2009, 2010, and 2011 
fiscal year-end, to have been approximately $24.9 million, $20.9 million and $16.7 million 
respectively.  The lease also provided that it could only be modified by a writing signed by 
authorized representatives of both ALC and Ventas and that all “notices, demands, requests, 
consents, approvals and other communications” under the lease were to be in writing with a copy 
to Ventas’s general counsel.  Other provisions of the lease required ALC to use the Ventas 
facilities solely for their primary intended use and in a manner consistent with their operation as 
healthcare facilities.  

               2.  ALC’s Fraudulent Scheme to Hide the Covenant Defaults 

       13.    Beginning in 2008, shortly after ALC entered the Ventas lease, occupancy at the 
Ventas facilities declined sharply.  As a result of the occupancy declines, from at least the first 
quarter of 2009 through the fourth quarter of 2011, ALC failed, by a significant margin, many of 
the occupancy and coverage ratio covenants contained in the Ventas lease.  Nevertheless, in each 
Form 10-K and 10-Q ALC filed during that period, ALC falsely represented that it was in 
compliance with the Ventas lease financial covenants.  ALC also disclosed that non-compliance 
with the financial covenants could result in a “material adverse impact” on ALC.  Moreover, 
beginning with the second quarter of 2011, ALC falsely represented in its 2011 Forms 10-K and 
10-Q that “it did not believe that there is a reasonably likely degree of risk of breach of the 
[Ventas] covenants.”  ALC included this additional disclosure in response to a comment letter 
received from the Commission’s Division of Corporation Finance.  

       14.    To hide ALC’s failure to comply with the covenants from Ventas, ALC’s CEO, 
Laurie Bebo, and CFO, John Buono, directed ALC accounting personnel to include in the covenant 
calculations between 49 and 103 fabricated occupants for every day from July 2009 through 
                 4
December 2011.      To establish the number of fabricated occupants to be included in the covenant 

                                                   
4
  On December 3, 2014, the Commission instituted pu      blic administrative and cease and desist 
proceedings   against Bebo and Buono, alleging     violations of the antifraud, books and records, 
internal controls, reporting, and other provisions of the Exchange Act.    In the Matter of Laurie 
Bebo and John Buono, CPA, Exchange Act. Release No. 73722.  On January 29, 2015, the 
Commission entered an Order accepting Buono’s offer of settlement, finding that he violated 
each securities law provision alleged against him, imposing a $100,000 civil penalty, and barring 
Buono from practicing before the Commission as an accountant or serving as an officer or 
director of a public company.  Exchange Act Release No. 74177.  On October 2, 2015, following 
a four-week evidentiary hearing, an Administrative Law Judge issued an Initial Decision making 
findings against Bebo.  Initial Decision Release No. 893.      
 
                                                    

                                                  5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

calculations, ALC accounting personnel, at Bebo’s and Buono’s direction, reverse-engineered the 
requisite number of additional occupants needed to meet the covenants each quarter.  ALC 
accounting personnel also prepared monthly journal entries to record revenue associated with the 
fabricated occupants which: (1) credited the fabricated occupant revenue to the individual Ventas 
                                                                                            5
facilities; and (2) debited revenue in the same amount in a corporate revenue account.          S hortly 
after the end of each quarter, ALC provided Ventas with covenant calculations which included the 
fabricated occupants in the occupancy covenant calculations and the revenue associated with the 
fabricated occupants in the coverage ratio calculations    and thus  falsely   showed that ALC was 
meeting the covenants.   

        15.     Bebo and Buono told Grant Thornton that Ventas had agreed that ALC could 
include in the covenant calculations ALC employees who travelled to and stayed at the Ventas 
                                 6
facilities for business purposes.    However, in actuality, no such agreement existed and Ventas was 
never told that any ALC employees were being included in the covenant calculations.  Even if 
Ventas had agreed that ALC could include in the covenant calculations employees who actually 
stayed at the Ventas facilities, given that only a small number of ALC employees actually did so,        
ALC would still have mis   sed the covenants by    significant margin s.    

        16.     In the third quarter of 2009, Grant Thornton asked ALC to identify the employees 
included in the covenant calculations.  In response, Bebo created and provided Grant Thornton 
with a list identifying the employees and their associated lengths of stay at the Ventas facilities.  
Bebo would subsequently prepare and/or approve such a list for Grant Thornton for every quarter 
through the fourth quarter of 2011.  However, given the small number of ALC employees that 
actually stayed at the Ventas facilities and the large number of fabricated occupants necessary to 
meet the covenants, Bebo chose to include on the list: (1) her family members and friends; (2) 
family members (including the seven-year old nephew) of another ALC executive; (3) employees 
who did not travel to, let alone stay at, the facilities; (4) employees of the Ventas facilities, who 
lived nearby and did not stay overnight at those facilities; (5) employees who had been terminated 
by ALC or employees who ALC anticipated hiring but who had not yet started; (6) various ALC 
employees as occupants of multiple Ventas facilities for the same time period; and (7) other 
individuals who were neither ALC employees nor residents of the Ventas facilities.  ALC did not 
disclose any of this to Ventas.  

        17.     The fraudulent scheme unraveled in the spring of 2012.  In April 2012, Ventas, 
which was still unaware of ALC’s use of employees in the covenant calculations, filed a lawsuit 
against ALC resulting from ALC’s unrelated failure to meet state regulatory requirements.  The 

                                                                                                                                                             
 
5
 As a result, ALC eliminated in consolidation the revenue associated with the fabricated 
occupants, and such revenue was not reported in its Commission filings.  In addition, ALC did 
not include the fabricated occupants in the occupancy numbers reported in its Commission 
filings. 
 
6
 ALC’s practice of including in the covenant calculations employees or other non-residents is 
sometimes referred to hereafter as “the employee adjustment.” 

                                                      

                                                    6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

following day, Bebo sent Ventas a settlement proposal pursuant to which Ventas would release 
ALC from liability for all claims including those arising from ALC including employees in the 
covenant calculations.  The settlement proposal was the first time Ventas learned that ALC was 
including employees in the covenant calculations.  On May 9, 2012, Ventas issued a notice of 
default in which it accused ALC of fraud based on the employee adjustment. 

       18.    In the meantime, on May 2, 2012, one of ALC’s accounting personnel filed a 
whistleblower complaint with the audit committee of ALC’s Board of Directors.  The complaint 
described the employee adjustment as a “sham” and disclosed that ALC had included in the 
covenant calculations: (1) employees who did not travel to the Ventas facilities; (2) certain 
employees at multiple facilities on the same day; and (3) Bebo’s parents, husband, and a family 
friend.  ALC immediately initiated an internal investigation, and Bebo was terminated shortly 
thereafter, purportedly for reasons unrelated to the employee adjustment. 

       19.    In June 2012, ALC and Ventas settled their lawsuit.  As part of the settlement, ALC 
purchased the Ventas facilities and certain other facilities from Ventas for an amount far greater 
than the appraised value of the facilities.  ALC paid approximately $100 million to settle the 
litigation and purchase the facilities, even though independent appraisals only valued the purchased 
facilities at $62.8 million.  Thus, in its second quarter 2012 interim financial statements, ALC 
included as an expense $37.2 million for “lease termination and settlement” and also wrote off the 
entirety of the remaining operating lease intangible assets associated with the Ventas facilities, 
which totaled approximately $8.96 million.   

       20.    Grant Thornton issued audit reports containing unqualified opinions on ALC’s 
2009, 2010 and 2011 financial statements.  Each of those financial statements falsely disclosed that 
ALC was in compliance with the financial covenants.  Those audit reports and financial statements 
were included in  ALC’s Form 10-K Commission filings. 

              3.  In Connection with the 2009, 2010, and 2011 ALC Engagements, Grant 
                  Thornton Was Aware of Numerous Risks and Red Flags Related to ALC’s 
                  Covenant Calculation Practices 
                   
       21.    ALC was one of the larger clients for Grant Thornton’s Wisconsin practice.   

                      a. The 2009 Engagement 

       22.    By the beginning of Grant Thornton’s 2009 engagement, Koeppel and other 
members of the engagement team were aware that occupancy at the Ventas facilities had declined 
and that ALC was close to defaulting on the financial covenants.  For this reason, in connection 
with its planning meeting for the first quarter 2009 review, the ALC engagement team focused on 
the financial covenants.  The planning meeting agenda, which Koeppel reviewed, indicated that the 
Ventas covenant calculations were an area to which the engagement team should “devote special 
attention” and that the engagement team should “look closely” at ALC’s covenant calculations. 

       23.    Three weeks later, in late April 2009, ALC accounting personnel sent a Grant 
Thornton junior engagement team member ALC’s calculations of the occupancy and coverage 

                                                 

                                               7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

ratio covenants for the quarter and underlying support for the numbers used in the covenant 
calculations.  Shortly thereafter, the engagement team member noticed discrepancies for six of the 
eight Ventas facilities between the occupancy figures used in the covenant calculations and the 
underlying support.  As a result, he sent an email to ALC accounting personnel asking for an 
explanation for the discrepancies.   

       24.    In response, ALC accounting personnel emailed Grant Thornton a spreadsheet 
known as an “occupancy recon” which listed for each of the Ventas facilities for each month 
during the quarter: (1) the actual occupancy of the facilities; and (2) the number of ALC 
“employees” which were added to the actual occupancy numbers for purposes of the covenant 
calculations.  The occupancy recon revealed that ALC was adding a total of 24 “employees” into 
the occupancy calculations for every day in the quarter.  A review of the information contained 
therein would have shown that ALC failed certain occupancy covenants without the inclusion of 
employees. 

       25.    ALC accounting personnel also provided the junior engagement team member with 
purported “support” for the employee adjustment, which was a February 4, 2009 email from Bebo 
to a Ventas employee (the “February 4 email”).  However, the February 4 email made no mention 
of the financial covenants, and merely mentioned that ALC may rent rooms at the Ventas facilities 
to certain of its employees “in the ordinary course of business.”  The junior engagement team 
member elevated the issue to Grant Thornton’s engagement manager, yet Grant Thornton did not 
receive any additional support from ALC.  The engagement team told Koeppel about the employee 
adjustment and described it as unusual, but told Koeppel that the team had reviewed 
documentation which the team believed evidenced an agreement with Ventas.  However, Koeppel 
never reviewed that documentation nor attempted to learn other details about it.   

       26.    Grant Thornton did not perform additional procedures, such as seeking 
confirmation from Ventas that it had agreed to the use of employees in the covenant calculations. 
In fact, Grant Thornton would never seek confirmation from Ventas that it had agreed to the use of 
employees in the covenant calculations.  Had Grant Thornton done so, it would have confirmed 
that Ventas never agreed to the employee adjustment. 

       27.    Grant Thornton’s workpapers for the first quarter of 2009 do not contain the 
February 4 email or reference ALC’s inclusion of employees in the covenant calculations.  The 
workpapers do reflect that Grant Thornton determined that ALC passed the covenant calculations 
based on the adjusted numbers contained in the occupancy recons.   

       28.    ALC’s management representation letter to Grant Thornton for the first quarter of 
2009 and every quarterly review and audit in fiscal year 2009, 2010 and 2011 contained a 
representation that ALC had complied with all aspects of contractual agreements that would have a 
material effect on the financial statements in the event of noncompliance. 

       29.    In the course of Grant Thornton’s second quarter 2009 review, a Grant Thornton 
summer intern was tasked with performing the procedures with respect to ALC’s compliance with 
the Ventas lease covenants under the supervision of an audit senior.  The intern reviewed an 
occupancy recon showing that ALC was including approximately 23 employees in the covenant 

                                                 

                                               8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

calculations for every day of the quarter.  The intern then prepared a note to the workpapers 
referencing the employee adjustment, which included language from the February 4 email, and 
stated: 

               The employee adjustment relates to extra rooms at each facility not currently 
               occupied by ALC residents.  The rooms are subleased through ALC to improve the 
               overall performance of each facility…Since the units are subleased, an adjustment 
               is needed to show ALC occupancy and for Ventas testing. 

 Koeppel signed off on this workpaper, even though she knew there were no formal sublease 
 agreements for any employee-occupied rooms. 

       30.    For the third quarter of 2009, Grant Thornton reviewed occupancy recons showing 
that ALC had included 45, 65 and 75 employees for each day of July, August and September 
respectively.  At Koeppel’s request, the occupancy recons now included a list showing the names 
of the ALC employees purportedly staying at each Ventas facility, and the attendant length of their 
purported stay.  This information would be contained in each subsequent occupancy recon, which 
showed employees staying at the facilities for every day of each month they were listed as an 
occupant.  Koeppel never instructed the engagement team to perform additional procedures related 
to the list of names to determine whether the list of employees, or the length of the employees’ 
purported stays, was accurate or appropriate.  Moreover, Koeppel never asked the engagement 
team what procedures, if any, the team was performing with respect to the list of names.  Had 
Koeppel, or later Robinson, asked the engagement team to perform substantive procedures on the 
list of names, Grant Thornton would have discovered that the list was fraudulent.    

       31.    As part of its third quarter review, Grant Thornton, requested that ALC include in 
its representation letter the representation that ALC had “calculated the [Ventas] lease covenants in 
accordance with the corresponding lease agreement and the lessor’s instructions.”  The 
engagement team wanted this representation included in part because it was concerned about the 
employee adjustment.  In response, ALC modified the requested representation, and included the 
following in its representation letter:  “We have calculated the [Ventas] lease covenants in 
accordance with the corresponding lease agreement and as understood by us after conferring with 
the lessor.” (Emphasis added).  Grant Thornton’s workpapers do not contain an explanation for the 
modification in the language.   

       32.    Grant Thornton’s workpapers for the third quarter 2009 review observed that one of 
the Ventas facilities had unexpected or unusual revenue trends in that changes in revenue could not 
be explained by corresponding changes in occupancy.  The workpapers addressing these trends 
noted that a Grant Thornton junior engagement team member had spoken with ALC personnel 
who explained that:  (a) ALC employees were staying at the Ventas facilities per an agreement 
with Ventas; and (b) that such employees “pay rent and increase revenue,” but are not counted 
toward ALC’s company-wide occupancy numbers.  This notation in the workpapers, which 
Koeppel reviewed, conflicted with her understanding that ALC employees included in the 
covenant calculations did not pay rent. 

                                                 

                                                9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

       33.    In the course of Grant Thornton’s 2009 year end audit, Koeppel reviewed risk 
assessment workpapers that she understood referred to risks associated with the Ventas financial 
covenants.   

       34.    In connection with that audit, and in the subsequent 2010 and 2011 audits, Grant 
Thornton documented that ALC was using “unusual” journal entries in connection with the 
employee adjustment.  Those journal entries recorded “negative revenue” in a corporate revenue 
account to offset $1.2 million in non-GAAP revenue on the financial statements of the Ventas 
facilities associated with the employees included in the covenant calculations.  The result of the 
offsetting revenue meant that the employee revenue reported to Ventas was eliminated from ALC’s 
consolidated financial statements.  Koeppel, and later Robinson, was aware of these unusual entries 
yet never instructed the engagement team to perform additional testing on the employee 
adjustment.   

       35.    Also in connection with the 2009 year end audit, the Grant Thornton engagement 
team planned on conducting site visits to five Ventas facilities in Georgia and one in South 
Carolina to, among other things, verify facility occupancy figures, physically inspect the houses 
and the assets therein, make fraud inquiries with facility employees and review documentation that 
was maintained at the facilities. However, ALC requested that the engagement team choose other 
site visit locations in lieu of the Georgia facilities, and Koeppel acquiesced to ALC’s request. 

       36.    Koeppel also reviewed a workpaper detailing ALC’s monthly revenues for each of 
its facilities.  That workpaper also indicated the occupancy rates for each facility. The workpaper 
showed that the occupancy rate for seven of the eight Ventas facilities fell far short of the rates 
required by the lease covenants.  

       37.    In the course of the 2009 year end audit, Grant Thornton reviewed occupancy 
recons showing that ALC was including 103 employees in the covenant calculations for each day 
of the fourth quarter, yet failed to mention the employee adjustment in the covenant calculation 
workpapers.  Nevertheless, Koeppel signed off on those workpapers.  In addition, Koeppel 
determined that a representation specific to the use of employees in the covenant calculations, such 
as the one included in the third quarter 2009 letter, was no longer necessary for ALC’s 
representation letter.  No such representation was included in the representation letters for any 
subsequent ALC audits and reviews in the relevant period.       

                      b.  The 2010 Engagement   

       38.    In connection with its planning meeting for the first quarter 2010 review, Grant 
Thornton again focused on the financial covenants.  The planning meeting agenda, which Koeppel 
reviewed, noted that the Ventas covenant calculations were an area to which the engagement team 
should “devote special attention” and that the engagement team should “make sure we are testing 
the [Ventas] lease covenant calculations.”   

       39.    For the first and second quarter 2010 reviews, Grant Thornton reviewed occupancy 
recons showing that ALC included 103 employees in the covenant calculations each day from 
January through May, and included 90 employees each day in June. 

                                                  

                                                10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

       40.    By the time Grant Thornton was conducting field work for the third quarter 2010 
review, Grant Thornton national professional standards and risk management personnel had 
become aware of negative quality indicators with respect to Koeppel, who was placed on a 
November 2010 monitoring list for partners with such negative indicators.  Grant Thornton placed 
Koeppel on this list because, among other things, her audit clients had restated their financial 
statements or interim financial information four times in  the preceding two years.  The Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”), in its 2008 inspection report, had also found 
deficiencies on one of Koeppel’s engagements because Grant Thornton had failed to gather 
sufficient audit evidence. 

       41.    One of the restatements that led to Koeppel’s inclusion on the partner monitoring 
list involved Grant Thornton’s audit client, Koss Corporation (“Koss”).  In June 2010, Koss 
restated its financial statements for the preceding two fiscal years because one of its vice presidents 
had embezzled $31.5 million from 2005 through 2009 and would plead guilty to criminal charges 
based on the misconduct.  Koeppel was the engagement partner for the Koss audit for three of the 
four years of the embezzlement.  In July 2012, Grant Thornton, without admitting any liability, 
paid $8.5 million to settle a malpractice case filed by Koss. 

       42.    By November of 2010, Grant Thornton’s National Professional Practice Director 
for the Midwest region (“NPPD”) became aware of negative audit quality indicators with respect 
to Koeppel as a result of an ongoing PCAOB inspection.  Although the NPPD did not know that 
Koeppel had been placed on the partner monitoring list, he was informed by others in the firm that 
Koeppel had a number of negative audit quality indicators.  The NPPD also became aware of 
observations by other Grant Thornton partners that the Wisconsin practice, for which Koeppel was 
the managing partner, had “gotten off the tracks from a methodology perspective.” 

       43.     By the fall of 2010, Grant Thornton had removed Koeppel from all of her other 
                              7
public company engagements,     but decided to allow her to continue as the engagement partner for 
the  2010 ALC audit. 

       44.    Following the completion of the second quarter 2010 review, the audit manager 
assigned to the ALC engagement team resigned.  During the planning stages for the third quarter 
review, Grant Thornton assigned a new engagement manager (the “Engagement Manager”) to be 
co-engagement manager on the ALC engagement.  During the third quarter 2010 review, Koeppel 
became aware that the other Grant Thornton auditor assigned to be the co-manager of the ALC 
engagement was removed from the engagement.  Koeppel knew that this left the Engagement 
Manager as the only manager on the ALC engagement.   

       45.    The Engagement Manager’s assignment as the sole engagement manager for the 
ALC engagement contravened Grant Thornton policy, which required that lead managers and 
partners on public company audit engagements be “SEC designated” to ensure that those 

                                                 
7
  Grant Thornton removed Koeppel     from   the remainder of her  audit and review engagements, 
including private company engagements     , after completing her work on financial statements  or 
interim financial information for years or quarters ending December 31, 2010.     

                                                   

                                                 11 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

individuals had the appropriate level of experience and understanding about Commission 
requirements.  To obtain such a designation, an auditor was required to spend 200 hours on public 
company engagements in a prescribed time period and complete certain continuing professional 
education courses.  

       46.    Koeppel knew that the Engagement Manager was not SEC designated due to the 
Engagement Manager having spent insufficient time on public company engagements.  Koeppel 
also knew that the other Grant Thornton auditor assigned to be the co-manager of the ALC 
engagement, who was SEC designated, was removed from the engagement.  Koeppel knew that 
this left the Engagement Manager, despite her lack of SEC designation, as the only manager on the 
ALC engagement.   

       47.    On October 22, 2010, shortly after the Engagement Manager started working on the 
ALC engagement, one of her subordinates brought the issue of the inclusion of employees in the 
covenant calculations to the Engagement Manager’s attention.  The email the Engagement 
Manager received stated: 

              You will also see that the only way some of the houses are passing [the 
              occupancy] covenant is by having these [employee] adjustments.  In prior 
              quarters, as well as again this quarter, we have asked for support for these 
              [employee] adjustments but they haven’t [been] able to provide any.  In 
              prior quarters I have also asked if they have any support (letters, emails, etc. 
              from [Ventas]) to show that [Ventas] is aware that ALC is adding in 
              [employees] and is okay with it.  They have nothing.  [the Engagement 
              Manager’s predecessor manager] said that all we can do then is rep it. . . 
              Since you are new to the job, I wanted to bring this to your attention and 
              make sure you are comfortable with this as well.  Is there anything else we 
              should do with this? 
               
       48.    A few days later, an engagement team member emailed the Engagement Manager a 
copy of the Ventas lease and noted that she could not locate any provisions that defined 
“occupancy.”  The Engagement Manager responded that she also could not find any such 
provisions and intended to contact ALC accounting personnel who prepared the covenant 
calculations for additional information.  The Engagement Manager believed it was necessary to 
speak to ALC accounting personnel because ALC’s inclusion of employees did not comport with 
the traditional definition of “occupancy” for assisted living facilities.  

       49.    The Engagement Manager then spoke with the ALC accountant who prepared the 
occupancy recons.  Based on this conversation, the Engagement Manager believed that ALC was 
possibly providing Ventas with the occupancy recons and that this allowed Ventas to discern that 
ALC was including employees in the covenant calculations.  In an email documenting her 
conversation with the ALC accountant, the Engagement Manager wrote that the accountant “did 
say he gives [Ventas] the more detailed spreadsheet that we have, so he thinks if they had a problem 
with it, they would have said something.”  She added: 

              If I can get John [Buono] to confirm this, then I think we can document that 

                                                 

                                               12 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

              they receive [the occupancy recon], have opportunity to disagree, etc.  I’d 
              still like it in the rep letter too then.  But at least I feel more comfortable that 
              they see the detail. 
               
       50.    The Engagement Manager then attempted to contact Buono, who was unavailable.  
The Engagement Manager left Buono a voicemail inquiring about ALC’s use of employees in the 
covenant calculations.  In that voicemail, the Engagement Manager noted that based on her 
conversation with the ALC accountant, she believed that “maybe” Ventas received the occupancy 
recons showing ALC’s inclusion of employees.  The Engagement Manager did not ask anyone at 
Grant Thornton to review the materials ALC sent to Ventas, which would have shown that Ventas 
was not receiving information showing ALC’s use of employees.  Grant Thornton would not 
perform such a review until the year end 2011 audit. 

       51.    After leaving Buono the voicemail, the Engagement Manager spoke with Koeppel.  
Koeppel indicated to the Engagement Manager that Koeppel was aware that ALC had been 
including employees in the covenant calculations for the previous six quarters and that Koeppel 
was comfortable with the practice.  Following this conversation, the Engagement Manager emailed 
Buono and told him to ignore the voicemail.   

       52.    The Engagement Manager also suggested to Koeppel that ALC include in its 
representation letter a representation relating to ALC’s use of employees in the covenant 
calculations, but Koeppel determined that such a representation was unnecessary.   

       53.    Thus, the Engagement Manager was dissuaded by Koeppel from following either of 
the Engagement Manager’s recommendations – speaking with Buono and obtaining additional 
representations – for obtaining support for ALC’s use of employees in the covenant calculations.        

       54.    In the course of the third quarter 2010 review, Grant Thornton for the first time 
included copies of the occupancy recons (without the employee names) in its workpapers.  Those 
materials, which Koeppel and the Engagement Manager reviewed, showed that ALC was 
including between 68 and 72 employees in the Ventas covenant calculations for each day of the 
quarter. 

       55.    Grant Thornton also included two notes in the workpapers regarding ALC’s use of 
employees in the covenant calculation.  In the first note, Grant Thornton indicated that, as a result 
of the employee adjustment, the occupancy figures used in the covenant calculations differed from 
the figures provided in ALC’s internal occupancy reports.  In the second note, Grant Thornton 
explained that the difference was, in part, the result of the employee adjustment and wrote that: 
“The employee adjustment relates to extra rooms at each facility that are not currently occupied by 
ALC residents, but are set aside for ALC employees to improve the overall performance of each 
facility.”  The note also contained the incorrect observation that Ventas was receiving the 
occupancy recons showing the number of included employees, and had the opportunity to disagree 
with ALC’s practices. 

       56.    In addition, Grant Thornton included the Ventas lease covenants in its Summary of 
Significant Matters (“the SSM”) for the third quarter 2010 review.  Grant Thornton prepared the 

                                                 

                                               13 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

SSM to highlight to engagement partners and engagement quality reviewers, among others, 
important issues and questions encountered during the audit or review.  In the SSM, Grant 
Thornton mistakenly noted that it had “confirmed” with Buono that Ventas received the occupancy 
recon.  The SSM also noted that Grant Thornton was not able to “specifically test” ALC’s use of 
employees in the covenant calculations, that Grant Thornton accordingly needed to rely on ALC’s 
representations about its covenant practices, and that such a representation was included in ALC’s 
representation letter. 

       57.    Both Koeppel and the Engagement Manager reviewed the SSM.  The Engagement 
Manager knew or should have known that the SSM incorrectly noted that Buono had represented 
that Ventas received the occupancy recons.   

       58.     In advance of Grant Thornton’s third quarter 2010 meeting with ALC’s audit 
committee, the Engagement Manager added the Ventas covenants as a written agenda item for 
Grant Thornton’s presentation to the committee.  However, Koeppel removed the agenda item 
from Grant Thornton’s presentation. 

       59.    In planning for the year end 2010 audit, Grant Thornton scheduled site visits to the 
Ventas facilities after Koeppel and the Engagement Manager determined that those facilities were 
at higher risk for inaccurate occupancy reporting because of the Ventas lease covenant 
requirements and because ALC was barely passing the covenants.   However, Grant Thornton’s 
workpapers documenting its site visits to the Ventas facility do not reference any steps to validate 
the inclusion of employees in the covenant calculations.  In fact, the Grant Thornton engagement 
team member who performed the site visit testing was unaware of the employee adjustment.  Had 
Grant Thornton asked, employees who worked at the Ventas facilities would likely have told the 
Grant Thornton engagement team that only a handful of employees were staying at the facilities at 
any given time and that no rooms were being set aside or reserved at their facilities for employee 
use.  Despite identifying the Ventas facilities as posing a higher risk, Koeppel failed to sign off on 
the results of the site visit procedures performed. Koeppel also failed to direct the site visit team to 
obtain support for ALC’s use of employees in the covenant calculations, and failed to follow-up 
with the team to see if any such support had been obtained. 

       60.    In the course of the year end 2010 audit, the Engagement Manager received a 
spreadsheet which showed the number of employees ALC included in the covenant calculations 
for each month during 2009 and 2010.  One hour after receiving this information, the Engagement 
Manager sent an email to her subordinate, in which the Engagement Manager wrote: 

               2009 is quite odd-how do they suddenly have 70 employees staying here 
               one month? Did we discuss this with them last year (i.e. how were they 
               tracking these before)? Also, they go from 70, then down to 24, then back 
               up.  This seems very odd.   . . . Not sure how accurate this is.      
 
Nevertheless, the Engagement Manager failed to make any inquiries to ALC regarding her 
concerns or document her concerns in the workpapers. 
 

                                                 

                                                14 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

       61.    Grant Thornton’s workpapers for the 2010 year end audit included the occupancy 
recons, which showed that ALC included 61 employees in the covenant calculations for each day 
of the fourth quarter.  The workpapers also noted that ALC would fail the occupancy covenants 
without the inclusion of employees.  Both Koeppel and the Engagement Manager reviewed these 
workpapers. 

       62.    For the 2010 year end audit, a Grant Thornton engagement team member suggested 
to Koeppel and the Engagement Manager that ALC’s representation letter should contain a specific 
representation relating to ALC’s use of employees in the covenant calculations.  Koeppel 
responded, consistent with her view the prior quarter, by determining that  the suggested 
representation was not necessary. 

                     c.  The 2011 Engagement 

       63.    Robinson replaced Koeppel as the ALC engagement partner beginning with the 
first quarter 2011 review.  With the exception of the third quarter 2011 review, Grant Thornton 
continued to staff the Engagement Manager as the manager on the ALC engagement.  Prior to the 
2011 year end audit, Grant Thornton approved the Engagement Manager’s application for SEC 
designation, even though the Engagement Manager had still not completed the amount of public 
company engagement hours required under firm policy.  In approving the application, Grant 
Thornton demanded that the NPPD continue to perform a detailed review in connection with the 
year end audit.     

       64.    When Robinson assumed responsibility for the ALC engagement, the engagement 
team advised Robinson that ALC was including employees in its covenant calculations.  After this 
was brought to Robinson’s attention, he discussed the issue with Buono during an introductory 
lunch.  Buono told Robinson that there was “an exchange of letters” that allowed ALC to use 
employees to meet the covenants.  However, Robinson never obtained any such documentation. 

       65.    During the first quarter 2011 ALC review, the Engagement Manager, as she had 
done with Robinson, brought the Ventas covenants to the attention of Grant Thornton’s 
engagement quality reviewer (the “EQR”), who had joined the ALC engagement as the 
engagement quality reviewer on the 2010 audit.  In the course of doing so, she sent an email 
informing the EQR that ALC was very close to missing the covenants. 

       66.    In the course of the first quarter 2011 review, Grant Thornton learned that ALC had 
provided information showing that it failed one of the Ventas lease occupancy covenants.  In 
reality, ALC had mistakenly included an insufficient number of employees to meet the covenant at 
issue.  After Grant Thornton raised the failed covenant with ALC, ALC provided Grant Thornton 
with revised covenant calculations in which ALC added employees in order to pass all of the 
covenants. 

       67.    In the following days, a Grant Thornton engagement team member emailed the 
Engagement Manager to apprise the Engagement Manager of her concerns that ALC had added 
employees after initially failing a covenant.  The engagement team member also proposed that the 
Engagement Manager request from Buono a letter confirming Ventas’s agreement to allow 

                                                 

                                               15 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

employees to be included in the covenant calculations.  When the engagement team member spoke 
with the Engagement Manager, the Engagement Manager shared her assessment that ALC’s use of 
new employees to remedy a covenant failure was “odd.”  However, Grant Thornton did not request 
additional support from ALC.  When a second junior engagement team member learned that Grant 
Thornton had not followed up with Buono on obtaining a letter concerning the employee 
adjustment, he wrote an email to the first engagement team member observing that:  “I don’t think 
we’re ever going to get this mystery letter.”  

       68.    ALC’s workpapers for the first quarter 2011 review included the occupancy recons, 
which showed that ALC included between 60 and 65 employees in the covenant calculations for 
each day of the quarter.  The workpapers also noted that ALC would fail the occupancy covenants 
without the inclusion of employees.  Both Robinson and the Engagement Manager reviewed these 
workpapers.  In a separate section of the workpaper, Grant Thornton noted that ALC had failed the 
occupancy covenant for one of the facilities in the first draft of the covenant calculations but 
explained that Buono had “found” additional employees which allowed ALC to pass.  

       69.    The SSM for the first quarter 2011 review again identified the Ventas covenants as 
a significant matter.  The relevant paragraph was substantially similar to the paragraph in the third 
quarter 2010 SSM except that it omitted the reference to Buono’s representation that Ventas was 
receiving occupancy recons.  Robinson, the EQR, and the Engagement Manager each reviewed 
this SSM.  

       70.    At Robinson’s request, Grant Thornton sent ALC a proposed representation letter 
for the first quarter 2011 review which contained a specific representation relating to the inclusion 
of employees in the covenant calculations.  However, when Buono requested that Grant Thornton 
remove this representation, Robinson and the Engagement Manager acquiesced.   

       71.    In the course of its second quarter 2011 review, Grant Thornton learned that ALC 
had received a comment letter from the Commission’s Division of Corporation Finance relating to 
ALC’s 2010 Form 10-K, which requested, among other things, that ALC disclose its performance 
relative to the Ventas covenants if it remained at “risk of non-compliance.”  Grant Thornton 
reviewed ALC’s proposed response to the comment letter, in which ALC wrote that it did “not 
believe that it has a reasonably likely degree of risk of breach of the [Ventas] covenants” and that it 
would add such a disclosure to its subsequent Commission filings.  ALC in fact added such a 
disclosure to its Commission filings beginning with its second quarter 2011 Form 10-Q.  Grant 
Thornton did not suggest any revisions to ALC’s final response letter or to ALC’s additional 
disclosure in its Commission filings. 

       72.    ALC’s workpapers for the second and third quarter 2011 reviews included the 
occupancy recons, which showed that ALC included between 73 and 88 employees in the covenant 
calculations for each day of the quarter.  The workpapers again noted that ALC would fail the 
occupancy covenants without the inclusion of employees.   

       73.    The SSM for the second and third quarter 2011 reviews contained identical 
paragraphs as the first quarter 2011 SSM with respect to the Ventas covenants.  Robinson, the 
Engagement Manager, and the EQR reviewed both SSMs. 

                                                 

                                               16 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

       74.    In preparation for the 2011 year end audit, Grant Thornton again recognized the 
risk associated with the financial covenants.  The planning meeting agenda for the audit included 
an item identifying areas where “ALC management could perpetrate and conceal fraudulent 
financial reporting.”   The agenda identified “occupancy (affecting covenants and bonuses)” as one 
such area for potential fraud.  Robinson, the EQR, and the Engagement Manager reviewed this 
agenda. 

       75.    During the 2011 audit, Grant Thornton for the first time requested a copy of the 
quarterly covenant calculations that ALC sent to Ventas.  Grant Thornton made this request after 
the Engagement Manager reviewed the fourth quarter 2011 occupancy recon and saw that 50 
percent of the available units at one of the Ventas facilities and 25 percent of the available units at 
another facility were purportedly occupied by ALC employees.   

       76.    In response to Grant Thornton’s request, ALC provided copies of the quarterly 
materials it sent to Ventas.  Those materials, like all of the earlier covenant information ALC had 
provided to Ventas, did not contain any information indicating that employees were being included 
in the covenant calculations or the number of such employees.    

       77.    A Grant Thornton engagement team member emailed the materials to the 
Engagement Manager and wrote:  “The excel document [sent to Ventas] is exactly what we receive 
[in the occupancy recons], except they exclude the tab where they add employees (as we had kind 
of expected)” (emphasis added).  The Engagement Manager responded to the email by writing that 
“I just don’t know how comfortable I am with this.”  the Engagement Manager wrote that she 
called Buono to seek an explanation, but left a voicemail when Buono did not answer.  The 
engagement team member then forwarded the Engagement Manager’s email to a junior team 
member, but not the Engagement Manager, writing:  “I wish I could be on this call . . .”  The junior 
engagement team member responded: “Holly s---.”   

       78.       Buono did not return the Engagement Manager’s call.  In the meantime, the 
engagement team continued to be concerned about the employee adjustment.  The day after leaving 
the voicemail for Buono, the Engagement Manager emailed Robinson and noted that the Ventas 
covenant calculations were still an “open item” because: (1) ALC wasn’t sending Ventas the 
employee occupancy information that Grant Thornton had been reviewing; and (2) she wanted to 
question Buono on why so many of the occupants at two Ventas facilities were ALC employees.  

       79.    Eight days after the Engagement Manager left the voicemail, Buono still had not 
returned her call. The Engagement Manager then left another voicemail for Buono in which she 
said that she wanted to discuss the Ventas covenants because the numbers for the quarter looked 
“odd.”  Four days later, when Buono still had not returned her calls, the Engagement Manager 
emailed Robinson to ask whether they should speak with the Chairman of ALC’s Audit Committee 
because Buono “still hasn’t responded to my questions with my concerns about how they are 
‘meeting’ these covenants.”  

       80.    In the meantime, both Robinson and the Engagement Manager again suggested 
adding a representation to ALC’s representation letter that specifically addressed the Ventas 
covenants, and Grant Thornton included such a representation in the draft letter it sent to ALC. 

                                                 

                                               17 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

       81.    Eleven days after the Engagement Manager’s initial voicemail to Buono, the two 
finally spoke.  On the call, the Engagement Manager failed to raise her concerns that ALC 
employees represented 50% of the occupancy of one Ventas facility and 25% of the occupancy of 
another facility.  Rather, Buono requested that Grant Thornton remove the Ventas covenant 
representation contained in the draft representation letter Grant Thornton had sent to ALC.    

       82.    In response, the Engagement Manager asked Buono to provide some evidence that 
Ventas knew that ALC was including employees in the covenant calculations.  Buono then 
described to the Engagement Manager: (1) a conference call with Ventas in 2009 during which 
Buono claimed that Ventas was notified about the inclusion of employees in the covenant 
calculations; and (2) an email from Bebo to Ventas confirming such conversation.  The 
conversation ended with the Engagement Manager requesting a copy of the email.   

       83.    Shortly after the conversation, Buono sent the Engagement Manager via email a 
copy of the February 4 email, which contained no mention of the Ventas covenants.  The 
Engagement Manager also provided a copy of the February 4 email to Robinson.  One minute after 
receiving the February 4 email from Buono, the Engagement Manager responded to Buono that 
she would remove the Ventas covenant specific representation from the final representation letter.   
The Engagement Manager did not consult with Robinson before removing the representation.   
However, in a subsequent conversation with Robinson, the Engagement Manager described the 
sequence of events and Robinson indicated his agreement with her decisions.     

       84.    Grant Thornton’s 2011 audit workpapers included the occupancy recons, which 
showed that ALC included 92 employees in the covenant calculations for each day of the fourth 
quarter.  The workpapers also contained a notation that the revenue associated with the employee 
occupants allowed ALC to satisfy the coverage ratio covenants.  Other workpapers, which 
Robinson and the Engagement Manager reviewed, also contained the incorrect observation 
contained in prior workpapers that Ventas received quarterly information showing the number of 
employees ALC included in the covenant calculations.   

       85.    As was the case for 2009 and 2010, Grant Thornton issued an audit report that 
included an unqualified opinion on ALC’s 2011 financial statements. 

              4.      The 2012 Engagement            

       86.    During the reviews of ALC’s interim financial statements for the first and second 
quarters of 2012, Robinson, the EQR, the Engagement Manager and the NPPD received additional 
information which indicated the impropriety of ALC’s inclusion of employees in the covenant 
calculations.  Grant Thornton did not withdraw its audit opinions on ALC’s prior period financial 
statements.   

       87.    In the course of its first quarter 2012 review, Grant Thornton learned that Ventas 
had issued notices of default to ALC as a result of ALC receiving license revocations at certain of 
the Ventas facilities.  On April 24, 2012, the Engagement Manager emailed Robinson to express 
her concerns regarding ALC’s efforts to resolve its disputes with Ventas, which included ALC 
offering Ventas $15 million to terminate the lease.  The Engagement Manager wrote: 

                                                 

                                               18 
---------------------Page 19---------------------

              Ventas may not realize the full extent to which occupancy has dropped.  
              Although they are getting close to a deal on the properties now, what 
              happens when Ventas finds out occupancy is actually much lower than 
              expected as ALC has been filling with employees.  This is going to happen 
              when they enter the properties.  I wonder if Ventas might ask for more then 
              because they may see it as the properties having depreciated more. 
               
       88.    On April 26, 2012, when the efforts to settle the license revocation issues collapsed, 
Ventas sued ALC in federal court.  ALC and Ventas would ultimately settle that litigation, after 
Ventas learned that ALC was including employees in the covenant calculations, with ALC 
purchasing the Ventas facilities for $37 million more than the facilities’ appraised value. 

       89.    In May 2012, Robinson, the EQR, the Engagement Manager and the NPPD learned 
that a whistleblower had submitted a complaint to ALC’s Audit Committee relating to the 
inclusion of employees in the covenant calculations and that ALC’s Audit Committee had retained 
a prominent law firm to conduct an internal investigation of the allegations.  While Grant Thornton 
was not provided with a copy of the whistleblower complaint until December 2012, ALC’s law 
firm described the whistleblower’s allegations to Robinson and the Engagement Manager during a 
meeting on May 14, 2012.  In its workpapers, Grant Thornton noted that the whistleblower had 
alleged that the employees included in the covenant calculations were not performing any services 
at the Ventas facilities or even leaving ALC headquarters.  The workpapers also noted the 
whistleblower’s disclosure that the employee numbers were reverse engineered to meet the 
covenants.  Robinson, the EQR, and the Engagement Manager prepared or reviewed these 
workpapers.   

       90.    On May 11, 2012, Robinson received an email from the Chairman of ALC’s Audit 
Committee attaching notices of default which ALC had received from Ventas.  In one of those 
notices, Ventas asserted that ALC had committed fraud by including employees in the covenant 
calculations.  In the cover email, ALC’s Audit Committee chair indicated that ALC management 
was not authorized to speak with Grant Thornton about the matters being investigated by the law 
firm retained by ALC’s Audit Committee. 

       91.    In the course of Grant Thornton’s second quarter 2012 review, the Engagement 
Manager prepared workpapers to explain the accounting for ALC’s purchase of the Ventas 
facilities, which indicated that ALC had paid Ventas $37 million in excess of the appraised value 
of those facilities “for damages as a result of occupancy rates falling significantly below required 
covenant occupancy rates.”  Robinson, the EQR, the NPPD and other members of Grant 
Thornton’s professional standards group reviewed these workpapers. 

F.     GRANT THORNTON’S AUDIT AND REVIEW OF BROADWIND 

              1.  Background on the Recording of Intangible Assets 

       92.    GAAP typically does not permit the recognition of intangible assets, such as 
customer relationships, as independent assets on a company’s balance sheet.  An exception to this 
general rule is intangible assets purchased in connection with a business combination.  In that 

                                                 

                                               19 
---------------------Page 20---------------------

context, GAAP requires the consideration for an acquisition to be allocated across the tangible and 
intangible assets, with the remainder recorded as goodwill.   

       93.    In connection with the Brad Foote acquisition in October 2007, Broadwind 
recorded amortizable intangible assets of $76 million and goodwill of $26 million.  Nearly the 
entire $76 million intangible asset related to Brad Foote’s contracts with its two most significant 
customers, Customer 1 and Customer 2, which were recorded at $62 million and $13 million, 
respectively.  To establish the intangible asset value, management relied on a valuation conducted 
by an appraisal firm, Appraisal Firm 1.  Appraisal Firm 1’s valuation depended in substantial part 
on the forecasted net cash flows derived from the Customer 1 and 2 contracts over ten- and nine-
year periods, respectively.  Appraisal Firm 1 calculated those net cash flows from forecasts and 
estimated growth rates provided by senior managers at Broadwind.  The net sales forecasts 
reflected management’s anticipation of aggressive growth.   

       94.    Once established, an amortizable intangible asset is subject to periodic impairment 
testing.  According to Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 360, originally promulgated as 
Financial Accounting Standard (“FAS”) 144, an intangible asset is impaired when the carrying 
amount of the asset exceeds its fair value.  A company is required to make this determination 
“whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that its carrying amount may not be 
recoverable.”  One such “triggering event” is “a current-period operating or cash flow loss 
combined with a history of operating or cash flow losses or a projection or forecast that 
demonstrates continuing losses associated with the use of a long-lived asset (or asset group).”  
Other examples of such triggering events include “a significant adverse change in the extent or 
manner in which a long-lived asset (or asset group) is being used or in its physical condition” or “a 
significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of a 
long-lived asset (or asset group), including an adverse action or assessment by a regulator.”  
Broadwind purported to follow the accounting principles established by FAS 144.      

               2.  The Decline of Broadwind’s Customer Relationships 

       95.    Beginning in late 2008, Customers 1 and 2 significantly reduced actual and 
forecasted orders, causing substantial declines in Brad Foote’s projected revenue associated with 
those relationships.  Broadwind reacted to the downturn by planning or implementing numerous 
initiatives to rationalize the business, including decreasing headcount, returning machines to 
equipment suppliers, altering production schedules, and withholding investments in additional 
capacity.   

       96.    Throughout the first quarter of 2009, the declines in Customer 1 and 2’s revenues 
and forecasts worsened, falling more than 66% and 71% from the original forecast used to value 
the customer relationships.  In response, Brad Foote took steps to restructure its workforce and 
operations, laying off more than 200 employees and senior staff through at least three workforce 
reductions, and reducing its material orders from suppliers.  Brad Foote aggressively sought 
business from other non-wind customers to replace the significant declines and correct the 
underutilization of its capacity.   

                                                  

                                                 20 
---------------------Page 21---------------------

       97.    In early 2009, as its financial condition worsened, Broadwind received early 
indications of potential impairment while preparing its 2008 annual report.  During its 2008 
financial statement audit, Broadwind retained Appraisal Firm 1 to test its goodwill and intangible 
assets for potential impairment.  In March 2009, Appraisal Firm 1 informed Broadwind that it had 
calculated a $15 million impairment charge associated with the Customer 1 contract.  Appraisal 
Firm 1 subsequently modified its calculations, which resulted in no impairment.  Although the 
Company ultimately did not disclose a charge in its 2008 Form 10-K, following consultation with 
Grant Thornton, Appraisal Firm 1’s preliminary result placed Broadwind’s management on further 
notice of the potential for impairment. 

       98.    During the second quarter of 2009, the Customer 1 and 2 relationships deteriorated 
more precipitously.  At a special board meeting convened on June 9, 2009, Brad Foote 
management reported that Brad Foote would produce no more than $85 million in sales for 2009, 
compared to $120 million in previously anticipated sales.  Management also reported that 2009 
revenue forecasts for Customer 1 had decreased to $30 million and that the 2009 revenue forecasts 
for Customer 2 had declined to $15 million.  In connection with a “massive and sudden schedule” 
reduction imposed by Customer 1 and other developments, Broadwind and Brad Foote began 
developing a “life without Customer 1” business plan, and several members of management 
expressed the desire to exit the relationship.  

       99.    For Brad Foote as a whole, second quarter 2009 revenue fell 31% against the 
second quarter of 2008 and 24% compared to the first quarter of 2009, and its gross margin turned 
negative.  As in previous months, Brad Foote continued its efforts to redirect sales from Customers 
1 and 2 to new customers and implemented additional workforce reductions. 

       100.   In the third quarter of 2009, Brad Foote’s actual and forecasted revenue continued 
to decline.  Specifically, year-to-date revenues from Customer 1 and Customer 2 through 
September 30, 2009 declined 42% and 25%, respectively, compared to the same period ending 
September 30, 2008. 

       101.   On July 29, 2009, Broadwind’s CEO provided the Board a “rationalization update” 
that described the precipitous decline and the restructuring that management was taking to respond 
to weak performance.  During the meeting, Brad Foote management presented a financial forecast 
for Brad Foote showing that the expectation for Brad Foote sales for 2009 had declined by 
$49 million, or 41% to a newly revised forecast of $71 million.  Brad Foote management also 
projected net income of negative $16 million for the year.  During a portion of the presentation 
discussing “risks to [the] income statement,” Broadwind management identified “continued loss of 
volume” and “impairment at subsidiaries.” 

       102.   The declines in actual and forecasted results were not limited to 2009.  Revenue 
forecasts for future years also declined.  For instance, on July 30, 2009, Customer 1 submitted a 
2010 forecast that was only 13% of the $125 million 2010 projection used to establish the 
acquisition value of the Customer 1 contract. 

       103.   Around this same time, Brad Foote management informed the Board that Brad 
Foote would generate revenues of $30 million from Customer 2 in 2010, $41 million in 2011, and 

                                                 

                                                21 
---------------------Page 22---------------------

$54 million in 2012.  On average, those forecasts represented a 70% decline from the comparable 
period forecasts originally used to value the Customer 2 contract. 

       104.   A board meeting was scheduled for October 1, 2009 to determine whether the 
Board should sever its relationship with Customer 1.  At that meeting, the Board decided not to 
terminate Broadwind’s relationship with Customer 1.  However, Broadwind continued to budget 
for and anticipate impairment in several documents and communications through December 2009. 

               3. Broadwind’s Misrepresentations and Omissions in Its Commission Filings 

       105.   As a result of these developments, by the third quarter of 2009, the intangible assets 
associated with the Customer 1 and 2 relationships met the triggering event tests established by 
FAS 144, and these assets were impaired.  Consequently, Broadwind materially overstated its 
intangible assets and understated a material impairment charge in its Form 10-Q for the third 
quarter of 2009, which was filed on November 2, 2009.  

       106.   Given the declines in its business and other developments, Broadwind resolved in 
October 2009 to raise additional capital through a public offering of its stock.  In anticipation of the 
offering that ultimately proceeded in January 2010, Broadwind filed a registration statement with 
the Commission.  The registration statement was initially filed on October 30, 2009 and was 
amended various times between November 6, 2009 and January 14, 2010.  The registration 
statement ultimately went effective on January 14, 2010.  All versions of Broadwind’s registration 
statement included the interim financial statements that had been included in the Forms 10-Q filed 
through the end of the third quarter, September 30, 2009, and expressly incorporated prior reports 
by reference.   

       107.   As was the case with the third-quarter Form 10-Q, Broadwind’s registration 
statement was incomplete and misleading.  By incorporating third-quarter interim financial 
statements that did not report the impairment charge, Broadwind failed to disclose that its 
intangible assets already had been substantially impaired.  Failing to disclose the impairment 
allowed Broadwind to proceed with an offering that was critical to its financial survival and to give 
the misleading impression that its business was stronger than actual and predicted results 
established. 

       108.   Less than two weeks after the completion of the offering, on February 2, 2010, 
Appraisal Firm 2 informed Broadwind’s management of its preliminary finding of impairment.   

       109.   Approximately one month later, Broadwind disclosed the impairment in its 2009 
Form 10-K and earnings release, filed on March 12, 2010.  Broadwind disclosed a $58 million 
charge to intangible assets and full impairment of its goodwill related to Brad Foote in the amount 
of $24 million.  Described by the Board as “significant,” the charge reduced the value assigned to 
customer contracts by 94%.  Of the $58 million intangible impairment charge, $56 million directly 
related to the declining value of the Customer 1 and 2 relationships.  Largely as a result of the 
charge, Broadwind’s operating loss for the year increased from $28 million to $110 million on 
reported revenues of $198 million. 

                                                  

                                                22 
---------------------Page 23---------------------

       110.   Following the revelation of the charge, Broadwind’s stock declined 21%, from a 
closing price of $5.68 on March 11, 2010 to a closing price of $4.47 on March 12, 2010, on 
increased volume.  On the next trading day, March 15, 2010, the price fell another 8% from the 
March 11, 2010 price to $4.11, for a total decline of 29%.  In contrast, the broader market, as 
reflected by the Nasdaq Composite Index, was essentially unchanged for these two days.  The 
charge also was significant because it signaled serious weaknesses in Broadwind’s long-term 
prospects, particularly with two of the industry’s largest players. 

       111.   Because Broadwind did not recognize impairment as a third-quarter event, its Form 
10-K for 2009 misstated third and fourth-quarter results.  In the Form 10-K, Broadwind 
inaccurately attributed the impairment charge to fourth-quarter events when the events that resulted 
in the impairment were present during the third quarter.    

               4.  Grant Thornton’s Early Warnings of Potential Impairment 

       112.   In inspection reports issued beginning in 2007, PCAOB notified Grant Thornton of 
several impairment audit deficiencies in other engagements.  Further, in its 2008 and 2009 
inspection reports, PCAOB notified Grant Thornton of issues regarding the effectiveness of Grant 
Thornton’s firmwide quality controls with respect to (1) professional skepticism, (2) engagement 
supervision, and (3) impairment procedures.   

       113.   As Broadwind’s auditor, Grant Thornton learned of the decline in sales and volume 
that began in late 2008, as well as the restructuring steps undertaken by Broadwind to address the 
declines, through its audit work.  For instance, Grant Thornton reviewed Broadwind’s board and 
committee materials in connection with each of its reviews and audits.  Grant Thornton’s work 
papers also noted various negative developments through its review of financial metrics and 
conversation with accounting personnel and others at Broadwind. 

       114.   In addition, because it reviewed and analyzed Appraisal Firm 1’s work during the 
2008 annual audit in early 2009, Grant Thornton also received the early indications of potential 
impairment identified by Appraisal Firm 1.  Although Broadwind ultimately did not disclose an 
impairment charge in its 2008 Form 10-K, the preliminary result placed Broadwind and Grant 
Thornton on notice of the potential for impairment. 

       115.   During the quarterly review for the period ending March 31, 2009, Grant Thornton 
asked management to prepare a memorandum documenting its consideration of triggering events 
that could indicate impairment of the intangible assets associated with the Customer 1 and 2 
relationships.  Management’s memorandum to Grant Thornton recited the standard for impairment, 
noted the recent downturns, but summarily concluded that no triggering events had occurred. 

       116.   Grant Thornton also requested a similar assessment for the second quarter of 2009. 
Management’s memorandum again noted key customers’ intentions to scale back orders, but 
summarily concluded these declines simply represented a delay in the timing of revenues and 
associated cash flows.  With respect to the second quarter 2009 assessment, the senior manager for 
the Grant Thornton engagement team wrote the following to Koeppel: 

                                                 

                                                23 
---------------------Page 24---------------------

               The problem is that the ability to forecast has been suspect with this group 
               and whether or not the sales are suspended or eliminated is the question . . . 
               their position is suspended which is how they get to no impairment.  I think 
               this meets adequate documentation at an interim date and not sure we are 
               going to get a better product.  Please let me know if you disagree and 
               whether or not we should have more expansive forecasting to illustrate the 
               expected revenues from these customers that have pushed out. 

       117.   Despite these concerns, Koeppel failed to direct the engagement team to obtain 
more expansive forecasting from Broadwind, or to perform any additional procedures, during the 
second-quarter review.  The Grant Thornton review file similarly included no documentation of 
any additional forecasting by Broadwind or additional procedures performed.       

               5.  Grant Thornton Learns of Broadwind’s Expectation of Impairment 
                   
       118.   In August 2009, after the continued deterioration of the Customer 1 and 2 customer 
relationships, Broadwind management shared with Grant Thornton its expectation that its 
intangible assets would be substantially impaired.  Specifically, Grant Thornton received internal 
budgeted balance sheets and income statements for 2010 and other documents reflecting 
management’s assumption that the entire Customer 1 contract intangible asset would be impaired 
by December 31, 2009.  Several of these documents specifically identified an expected impairment 
charge of $48 million to be recorded in the fourth quarter.   

       119.   After being informed on September 9, 2009 of management’s expectation, Koeppel 
wrote to the senior manager: “Guess they see the writing on the wall for [Brad Foote]—seems like 
we need a triggering event?!?!?”  One day later, the senior manager summarized for Koeppel a 
discussion with Broadwind’s Chief Accounting Officer (“CAO”) and Controller: 

               The impairment has not been booked or determined, but they believe a 
               Customer 1 triggering event is a week or two away and is based on a 
               customer retention decision at the board level . . . [the CAO] feels they are 
               slanting the board materials to keep Customer 1, but are not incorporating 
               the true costs of the customer relationship which would potentially paint a 
               different light. 

       120.   Grant Thornton incorporated management’s expectation in its planning for the 
third-quarter review and year-end audit of Broadwind’s 2009 financial statements.  On 
September 29, 2009, Broadwind and Grant Thornton met to plan the upcoming annual audit.  
Agenda and notes drafted by Grant Thornton in preparation for the meeting reflect “expected 
impairment,” “loss of Customer 1 . . . FAS 144 writeoff,” and the need “to get started as soon as 
possible.”  Relatedly, a client meeting agenda listed “impairment analysis” as a topic of discussion.  
Attachments to the agenda included other references to impairment and an estimated $48 million 
charge.  A few days after the audit planning meeting, on October 4, 2009, Grant Thornton 
forwarded Broadwind’s Controller guidance on impairment disclosures “as a follow up to [their] 
discussion regarding potential impairment.”  

                                                  

                                                24 
---------------------Page 25---------------------

              6.  Grant Thornton’s Failed Review of Broadwind’s Third-Quarter 
                  Impairment Assessment 
                   
       121.   Broadwind’s third quarter ended on September 30, 2009.  As discussed above, in 
early October 2009, Broadwind decided to raise additional capital through a follow-on offering of 
its stock, referred to as a “re-IPO,” and began to prepare a registration statement.  The Grant 
Thornton engagement team was aware that Broadwind was embarking upon an offering and 
understood that the offering was critical to Broadwind’s financial survival.  Grant Thornton also 
understood that Broadwind’s CEO planned to participate in the offering by selling shares that he 
personally owned.  Broadwind originally planned to complete the offering in late November 2009. 

       122.   Grant Thornton’s quarterly review of Broadwind’s third-quarter interim financial 
statements began on October 21, 2009.  On or about October 27, 2009, immediately before a 
planned filing of a registration statement, Grant Thornton learned that Broadwind’s management 
had decided not to file the registration statement due to the withdrawal of the lead underwriter.  
After being informed by Broadwind’s CFO that there were “underwriting issues at the last 
minute,” Koeppel conveyed her understanding to the senior manager and manager that 
“impairment may be an issue/concern—they want to highlight it may occur—[the  CAO’s] and my 
concern is it starts to look like you should have already recorded it then—details, details!” 

       123.   In connection with the third-quarter review, on or about October 29, 2009, despite 
prior communications of an expected impairment, Broadwind management once again prepared an 
impairment assessment for Grant Thornton that concluded that no triggering event had occurred.  
In the assessment, Broadwind incorporated a comparative table of year-to-date revenues by 
customer that reflected substantial revenue declines.  Management summarily characterized these 
declines as temporary and asserted that long-term volumes had not been materially changed.  
However, management offered no specific evidence to support its view that orders would return to 
the volumes forecasted in 2007, and other facts contradicted its assertion.  Based on this 
unsupported and incorrect conclusion, Broadwind failed to disclose a significant impairment 
charge in its Form 10-Q filed on November 2, 2009, opting instead for a generalized risk disclosure 
of the possibility of such a charge.  Management’s assessment was incorporated into a Grant 
Thornton working paper that was reviewed and approved by Koeppel and others on the 
engagement team.  

       124.   Notwithstanding the awareness of a significant likelihood that the Customer 1 and 2 
contracts were impaired, and despite lingering uncertainty about management’s forecasting ability, 
Koeppel and others on the engagement team accepted management’s unsupported assertion that 
the reduced orders only represented a temporary deferral of sales that would be recovered over the 
life of the supply agreement.  Grant Thornton noted in its workpapers, which Koeppel reviewed: 

              GT notes that although volumes are below those projected by mgmt during 
              the 2008 integrated audit, management does not believe that this is a 
              triggering event due to the following. (i) BFGW continues to have long-
              term contracts with [Customer 1 and 2].  For example, the Customer 1 
              contract contains automatic renewals, termination provisions, etc.  Current 
              discussions with Customer 1 indicate increased future activity. (ii) These are 

                                                 

                                               25 
---------------------Page 26---------------------

              long-term relationships with an estimated useful life of 9 [Customer 2] and 
              10 [Customer 1] years.  Thus, it is reasonable to assume that short-term 
              reductions in volume will be made up over the longer term.  Management 
              does not believe, and GT concurs, that a short-term decrease from budgeted 
              activity qualifies as a triggering event and such analysis does not seem to be 
              supported by FAS 144. 

       125.   Even though multiple facts known to Koeppel and the engagement team did not 
align with management’s conclusion, and Grant Thornton knew that Broadwind was pursuing an 
offering, Grant Thornton did not perform any procedures to determine whether the order 
reductions were other than temporary.  On the contrary, the review documentation noted that Grant 
Thornton simply “assume[d]” that these reductions were temporary.  Among other things, Grant 
Thornton did not ask Broadwind to provide detailed information about Customer 1 and 2 volume 
expectations beyond 2009, which was available to management at the time.  Grant Thornton’s files 
do not include any documentation indicating how Koeppel or the engagement team determined the 
reasonableness and consistency of Broadwind’s response in light of the results of other review 
procedures and their knowledge of the business.   

       126.   In fact, Broadwind’s response conflicted with longer-term forecasts presented to the 
Board as early as July 2009, which were available to Grant Thornton.  Koeppel’s experience with 
Broadwind since 2007 provided her with an understanding of Brad Foote’s operations to recognize 
that Brad Foote required longer-term forecasts from Customer 1 and 2 to manage its material 
requirements and production schedule.  Consequently, she should have known that 2010 volume 
forecasts were available at the time of the third-quarter triggering event assessment.  

       127.   Further, during Grant Thornton’s review of Broadwind’s third-quarter impairment 
assessment memorandum, Grant Thornton’s professional standards partner (the “PSP”) assigned to 
the Broadwind engagement provided comments to Koeppel and the manager.  The PSP had been 
assigned by Grant Thornton to monitor the Broadwind engagement as a result of Grant Thornton’s 
designation of the engagement as high risk.  In a communication to the engagement team about 
Broadwind’s impairment assessment, the PSP wrote the following: “Are the revenues consistent 
with the projections used for their last impairment analysis? If they are significantly declined than 
that, then you would have a trigger you may need to revisit. They don’t address this here. Also 
need GT conclusion & view on impairment in the files.”  Although the team’s own third-quarter 
revenue analytics working papers demonstrated that the revenues were not consistent with the 
projections used for Broadwind’s last impairment analysis, the engagement team did not revisit the 
triggers for an impairment analysis.  The manager responded to the PSP simply that management 
viewed the contracts as long term, such that a short-term decrease from budget would not qualify 
as a triggering event.    

              7.  Grant Thornton Defers to Broadwind in Its Comfort Letter 
                   
       128.   Broadwind’s third-quarter 2009 interim financial statements were incorporated into 
its registration statement for the public offering in January 2010.  In connection with the offering, 
Grant Thornton was retained to provide a comfort letter to investment bankers and reviewed draft 
registration statements and impairment disclosures.  As Grant Thornton performed its procedures, 

                                                 

                                               26 
---------------------Page 27---------------------

Koeppel and the engagement team learned that the Commission’s Division of Corporation Finance 
had questioned Broadwind’s impairment disclosures.  As part of its review of Broadwind’s 
registration statement, the Division of Corporation Finance issued Broadwind a comment letter in 
late November 2009.  In response to comments questioning the Company’s impairment 
disclosures, Broadwind added more detail to its description of its significant accounting policies in 
its MD&A and the notes to consolidated interim financial statements.  However, the additional 
language simply provided more detail about the testing process and did not alter the substance of 
Broadwind’s disclosures regarding impairment or the risk of impairment.     

       129.   Following this expanded process disclosure, Koeppel and the senior manager 
defended the quality of Broadwind’s disclosures surrounding impairment in email exchanges with 
the PSP.  The PSP voiced serious reservations to the engagement team about the impairment 
disclosures and emphasized the company’s obligation to provide an early warning to investors if it 
believed an impairment charge was reasonably possible.  The PSP specifically cautioned Koeppel 
that “[w]e can’t just turn a blind eye if we believe there is a good possibility they will have 
impairment.”  Koeppel and the senior manager addressed the PSP’s concerns by obtaining a 
representation from management that impairment testing was in process but had not yet been 
completed.  Grant Thornton’s comfort letter expressly cautioned that it had not performed any 
procedures surrounding impairment of intangible assets with respect to the period from October to 
November 2009, deferring instead to its “inquiry of management.” 

               8.  Grant Thornton Negligently Audits Management’s Allocation of 
                  Impairment Charge to the Fourth Quarter 
                   
       130.   In the course of its year end audit of Broadwind, Grant Thornton’s workpapers 
failed to differentiate the fourth-quarter declines from comparable declines that occurred in prior 
periods.  At the urging of the PSP just days prior to audit signoff, the engagement team considered 
whether the impairment charge should be recorded in the fourth quarter of 2009 or some earlier 
period.  The resulting audit file memorandum, which Koeppel reviewed, relied on selected sales 
metrics to demonstrate a purported deterioration in the fourth quarter of 2009.  In the 
memorandum, Grant Thornton reasoned that: (1) the fourth quarter 2009 revenue decline from 
fourth quarter 2008 (65%) and from third quarter 2009 (32%) was significant; and (2) prior to the 
fourth quarter, actual and forecasted revenue amounts related to the reporting unit were consistent 
with previous expectations.   

       131.   Grant Thornton’s observation that, prior to the fourth quarter, actual revenues were 
consistent with the prior year’s forecasted revenues was incorrect and was contradicted by the 
engagement team’s own revenue analytics documentation in each of the first three quarters of 
2009.  The team’s third-quarter review impairment workpapers also acknowledged this 
underperformance by stating “that, although volumes are below those projected by [management] 
during the 2008 integrated audit, management does not believe that this is a triggering event.”  In 
fact, Brad Foote’s actual quarterly revenues in 2009 failed to meet the forecasted revenues used in 
the fiscal year 2008 impairment analysis by significant margins.  Moreover, Grant Thornton’s 
reasoning applied with equal force to prior quarters in 2009, and these declines were documented 
by Grant Thornton each quarter in its revenue analytics working papers.  In the second and third 
quarters, Brad Foote realized comparable declines in revenue.  Second quarter 2009 revenue fell 

                                                  

                                                27 
---------------------Page 28---------------------

31% against second quarter 2008 and 24% compared to first quarter 2009.  Third quarter 2009 
revenue fell 49% compared to third quarter 2008 and 19% compared to second quarter 2009.   

       132.   The engagement team’s memorandum on this issue failed to discuss whether or 
how it considered the significant sales declines that had occurred in the third quarter in concluding 
the company was correct in recording the impairment charge as a fourth-quarter event.  Further, the 
team’s inclusion of the inaccurate statement that actual revenues were consistent with prior-year 
projections reinforced the company’s incorrect allocation of the impairment charge to the fourth 
quarter.  Koeppel and Grant Thornton sought only evidence to corroborate management’s 
conclusion while disregarding evidence from their own prior work that contradicted management’s 
conclusion.   

       133.   Around the same time that the PSP had asked the engagement team to evaluate the 
timing of the impairment charge, Koeppel provided Broadwind’s CFO with comments on 
Broadwind’s draft earnings release to be issued in connection with the filing of Broadwind’s 2009 
Form 10-K.  The CFO’s draft had attributed the impairment charge to “reduced wind gearing 
purchases under key customer contracts beginning in late 2008.”  (emphasis added).  Koeppel 
urged the CFO to reevaluate the language in the release.  Koeppel wrote: “We view the following 
reference to 2008 as problematic as it may suggest that you should have taken the impairment 
charge earlier . . . Suggest that you expand the sentence to focus on Q4 events which drove this 
assessment.”  Koeppel proposed these revisions to the press release prior to the engagement team’s 
drafting of the memorandum purporting to document its consideration of the charge’s timing.   

               9.  Grant Thornton’s Failure to Detect Broadwind’s Overstatement of 
                  Revenue 

                          a.  Grant Thornton Identifies Revenue Recognition Risks 
                   
       134.   In the course of the 2009 year end audit, Koeppel and Grant Thornton identified the 
risk of material misstatement due to fraud in the area of revenue recognition at Broadwind’s most 
significant subsidiary, Brad Foote, as a specific risk.  Audit planning documentation identified the 
risk that “sales include fraudulent transactions” as “high” and “reasonably possible.”  Planning 
documentation further noted “possible incentive to play with earnings especially at the BFGW 
level (there are monthly sales targets included in their loan covenants).”  More generally, Grant 
Thornton had identified the Broadwind engagement as a high-risk audit.  This conclusion was 
influenced in part by Broadwind’s prior disclosures of material weaknesses in controls over 
revenue recognition and other controls in earlier periods.  

                         b.  Overstatement of Revenue by Broadwind 

       135.   This risk in fact materialized.  The deterioration in customer relationships that 
produced the impairment charge also compromised Brad Foote’s ability to meet monthly debt 
covenants associated with its primary credit facility.  To avoid default and other negative 
consequences, Brad Foote personnel accelerated revenue to meet its covenants until Broadwind 
could raise funds to retire the credit facility through the offering in January 2010.  Broadwind 
failed to disclose this practice and its effect on future revenue in the registration statement used in 

                                                  

                                                28 
---------------------Page 29---------------------

the offering.  In addition, as a result of the transactions, Broadwind reported $4 million of 
improperly recognized revenue for the third and fourth quarters of 2009, including certain bill-and-
hold transactions entered with Customer 2.  This revenue was material to Broadwind’s financial 
results.     

       136.   The Customer 2 bill-and-hold transactions had their genesis in a broader “pull-
ahead agreement” between Customer 2 and Brad Foote.  In response to forecast reductions in early 
2009, Brad Foote personnel approached Customer 2 about pulling $6 million of orders, consisting 
of 150 sets of gear boxes, from 2010 into 2009 “to ensure [Brad Foote’s] future compliance with 
debt covenants” and its ability to continue supplying gearboxes to Customer 2.  Brad Foote’s 
proposal was not requested by Customer 2 or tied to any commercial need on the part of Customer 
2 beyond the survival of a critical supplier.  The 150 sets were to be pulled from requirements that 
were scheduled to ship in 2010 and would not be consumed until the first half of 2010.  Because 
Customer 2 had no need for the sets and would carry the 150 sets as excess inventory, Brad Foote 
proposed “to cover Customer 2’s carrying and storage costs through deflation in 2010.”  In 
addition, because the long-term agreement with Customer 2 provided for an annual reduction in 
prices paid by Customer 2, Brad Foote agreed to accept 2010 prices for the parts.  Brad Foote 
committed that it would not ship the products to Customer 2 if it were able to identify new business 
from other customers.  After initially refusing the request, Customer 2 agreed to provide $3 million 
of support.  Customer 2 scheduled the 75 sets to be delivered from late August 2009 through 
November 2009.  Brad Foote’s delivery of these sets caused significant disruption at Customer 2, 
given its lack of need for the parts until 2010.  Brad Foote paid Customer 2 the carrying cost and 
the price reduction through a 1.5% discount that was spread over shipments that occurred in 2010. 

       137.   As a result of the pull-ahead agreement, by October 2009, Customer 2 exceeded its 
ability to store the excess inventory.  Consequently, Customer 2 approached Brad Foote about 
storing the remaining gear sets through a bill-and-hold arrangement.  On October 31, 2009, Brad 
Foote agreed and entered into a bill-and-hold arrangement with respect to 30 gear sets totaling 
$1,247,160.  The gears were not shipped to Customer 2, but instead were supposed to be 
segregated and maintained onsite at Brad Foote.  Customer 2 required Brad Foote to segregate the 
product and provide evidence of completion and periodically inspect the product on site.  
Notwithstanding these efforts, Brad Foote failed to segregate the product consistently.  The 
transaction failed to meet the criteria to recognize revenue under a bill-and-hold arrangement.  See 
In the Matter of Stewart Parness, Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Rel. No. 108 (Aug. 5, 
1986), Staff Accounting Bulletin 104, Revenue Recognition.     

       138.   On November 30, 2009, Brad Foote placed 30 sets into a bill-and-hold arrangement 
similar to the one entered with Customer 2 in October 2009.  Fifteen of these 30 sets completed the 
pull-ahead arrangement with Customer 2, and Brad Foote documented Customer 2’s request 
through the same email authorizing delivery in October 2009.  The other half corresponded to an 
additional 15 sets not formally ordered by Customer 2 until December 2009.  In total, Brad Foote 
recognized $1,194,471 of revenue associated with these 30 sets.  As with the October 2009 
shipment, Broadwind failed to produce evidence of Customer 2’s substantial business purpose for 
the arrangement and failed to comply with other requirements of a proper bill-and-hold 
arrangement. 

                                                  

                                                29 
---------------------Page 30---------------------

                       c.  Grant Thornton’s Audit of the Bill-and-Hold Arrangement 

       139.   Grant Thornton never learned the details of the bill-and-hold arrangement.   During 
the 2009 year end audit, Grant Thornton identified the October 2009 transaction as a transaction 
for further review.  However, the engagement team’s testing of this transaction was limited to 
obtaining a summary of its terms from management.  The summary failed to identify several 
aspects of the transaction critical to its proper accounting, including, among other things, the price 
discount and the inventory carrying cost.  For example, interviews with Brad Foote personnel, 
review of documents associated with the transaction, or confirming the terms directly with 
Customer 2 could have revealed that the bill-and-hold arrangement was the product of a large-scale 
pull-ahead agreement and had no independent business purpose.   

       140.   More broadly, prior to the conclusion of the audit, management identified multiple 
problematic transactions at Brad Foote designed to meet monthly revenue covenants during a 
pending offering.  These transactions included improperly recorded bill-and-hold transactions that 
should have raised additional questions about the October 2009 transaction with Customer 2.  The 
engagement team did not document how it altered the nature, timing, or extent of its audit 
procedures in a manner that addressed this risk. 

       141.   Koeppel participated in the audit planning process and fraud brainstorming 
discussion, signed off on the audit working papers in which the identified risks were documented, 
and signed off on working papers concluding that the Customer 2 bill-and-hold transaction met 
applicable revenue recognition criteria.    

                       d.  Retention of Supporting Documentation in the Audit File 

       142.   As discussed above, Broadwind identified and corrected certain transactions in 
which it had improperly recognized revenue through an internal review conducted by management 
from late 2009 to early 2010.  A report of the internal review provided to Grant Thornton and 
referenced in its working papers identified multiple instances of improper revenue recognition, 
which included backdated letters, side agreements, unauthorized bill-and-hold transactions, and a 
directive not to record a credit memo.  These transactions contributed to an overstatement of 
revenue that enabled Brad Foote to barely meet its debt covenants in the months leading to a 
critical stock offering.  However, the engagement team did not retain a copy of the report or 
supporting documentation for the questionable transactions in the audit file.   

G.    VIOLATIONS 

               RULE 102(e) AND SECTION 4C OF THE EXCHANGE ACT 

       143.   Grant Thornton’s 2009, 2010, and 2011 audits of ALC, and its 2009 third quarter 
review and year end audit of Broadwind were deficient and not performed in accordance with 
                   8
PCAOB standards.       Section 4C(b) and Rule 102(e)(1)(iv) define improper professional conduct 
                                                  
8
  References to auditing standards in this Order are to PCAOB standards in effect at the time the 
audit work was performed.    For example, the  PCAOB     risk assessment standards   (AS 8  - 15)  
 
                                                   

                                                  30 
---------------------Page 31---------------------

with respect to persons licensed to practice as accountants.  Pursuant to these provisions, 
“improper professional conduct” includes two types of negligent conduct:  (1) a single instance 
of highly unreasonable conduct that results in a violation of professional standards in 
circumstances in which an accountant knows, or should know, that heightened scrutiny is 
warranted; or (2) repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in violations of 
professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence.     
        
       144.   As set forth above, Grant Thornton knew, or should have known, that the Ventas 
financial covenant calculations were an area in which heightened scrutiny was warranted in 
connection with the 2009, 2010 and 2011 audits of ALC.  Moreover, Grant Thornton knew or 
should have known facts that called into question ALC’s claims that it was meeting the Ventas 
lease covenants by virtue of an agreement with Ventas to include employees and other non-
residents in the covenant calculations.  Throughout the 2009, 2010, and 2011 audits and reviews, 
Grant Thornton was aware of repeated red flags surrounding ALC’s practice of meeting the 
covenants by treating employees and other non-residents as occupants of the Ventas facilities.  In 
light of these red flags, Grant Thornton failed to take reasonable steps to verify that an agreement 
with Ventas existed or that the employees ALC claimed to be occupants of the facilities were in 
fact staying there.  Had Grant Thornton taken such measures, it could have exposed and put an end 
to ALC’s fraud.  Instead, Grant Thornton issued audit reports in 2009, 2010, and 2011containing 
unqualified opinions that were filed with ALC’s financial statements in the Form 10-Ks.  In those 
reports, Grant Thornton inaccurately stated that the audit had been conducted in accordance with 
PCAOB standards and that ALC’s financial statements presented fairly, in all material respects, the 
company’s position and results in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the 
United States of America.   
        
       145.   Further, in the course of its 2009 third quarter review of Broadwind, Grant 
Thornton knew, or should have known, that Broadwind’s financial statements omitted a $58 
million impairment charge associated with its deteriorated customer relationships for Brad 
Foote’s two most important customers.  Additionally, in the course of its 2009 year end audit of 
Broadwind, Grant Thornton knew or should have known that Broadwind’s impairment charge 
was not a fourth-quarter event and that Broadwind’s third and fourth quarter financial statements 
materially overstated revenue. 
 
               Failure to Properly Plan the Audit (AU §§ 311 and 312, AS 8, AS 9) 
 
       146.   PCAOB standards require an auditor to consider the nature, extent and timing of 
work to be performed in planning the audit and prepare a written audit program which sets forth in 
reasonable detail the audit procedures necessary to accomplish the audit objectives.  (AU § 
311.05).  Auditors must also consider audit risk and materiality in planning the audit and designing 
audit procedures.  (AU § 312.12).   Auditors additionally must plan the audit so that audit risk will 
be limited to a low level appropriate for expressing an opinion on the financial statements.  (AU § 

                                                                                                                                                             
became effective for audits of fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2010 (i.e., the 
2011 audit of ALC) and superseded AU §§ 311, 312, 326, among others.   

                                                  

                                                 31 
---------------------Page 32---------------------

312.13).  Auditors are also required to consider significant risk of material misstatement of the 
financial statements in: (1) determining the nature, timing or extent of procedures; (2) assigning 
staff; and (3) requiring appropriate levels of supervision.  (AU § 312.17).  In planning an audit, 
auditors must also design procedures to obtain reasonable assurance of detecting misstatements 
that the auditor believes could be material.  (AU § 312.25, AS 8.3).      
        
       147.   PCAOB standards also require auditors to properly plan their audits and develop 
and document an audit plan that includes a description of, among other things: (1) the planned 
nature, timing and extent of substantive procedures; and (2) other planned audit procedures 
required to be performed so that the engagement complies with PCAOB standards.  (AS 9.4, AS 
9.10).   
        
       148.   As a result of Grant Thornton’s conduct described above, Grant Thornton failed 
to properly plan its 2009, 2010 and 2011 audits of ALC. 
        
               Failure to exercise due professional care and professional skepticism (AU 
               §§ 230, 316, 722, and AS 13) 
        
       149.   PCAOB standards require auditors to exercise due professional care in the 
planning and performance of the audit and the preparation of the report.  (AU § 230.01).  
Auditors must maintain an attitude of professional skepticism, which includes “a questioning 
mind and a critical assessment of audit evidence.”  (AU § 230.07, AS 13.7).  In addition, the 
auditor should “consider the competency and sufficiency of the evidence.  Since evidence is 
gathered and evaluated throughout the audit, professional skepticism should be exercised 
throughout the audit process.”  (AU § 230.08).  In exercising professional skepticism, an auditor 
should not be satisfied with less than persuasive evidence because of a belief that management is 
honest.  (AU §§ 230.09 and 316.13).  Further, auditors should:  (1) perform an ongoing questioning 
of whether the information and evidence obtained suggests that a material misstatement due to 
fraud has occurred; and (2) conduct the engagement with a mindset that recognizes that a material 
misstatement due to fraud could be present, regardless of past experience with the entity and the 
auditors’ belief about management’s honesty and integrity.  (AU § 316.13).  Auditors should also 
exercise due professional care and professional skepticism in the course of reviews of interim 
financial information.  (AU § 722.01).  
        
       150.   As a result of Grant Thornton’s conduct described above, Grant Thornton failed 
to exercise due professional care and professional skepticism in its 2009, 2010 and 2011 audits 
of ALC and its 2009 third quarter review and year end audit of Broadwind.   
        
               Failure to obtain sufficient evidence (AU §§ 326 and 333, AS 13, 14 and 15) 

       151.   PCAOB standards required auditors to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter 
(for the 2009 Broadwind audit and the 2009 and 2010 ALC audits) and sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence (for the 2011 ALC audit) to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion with respect to the 
financial statements under audit.  (AU § 326.22, AS 15.4).  Auditors must be thorough in their 
search for evidential matter and unbiased in its evaluation and consider relevant evidential matter 

                                                  

                                                32 
---------------------Page 33---------------------

regardless of whether it corroborates or contradicts assertions in the financial statements.  (AU § 
326.25, AS 15.2 and 15.29).     
        
       152.   PCAOB standards also provide that management representations “are not a 
substitute for the application of th[e] auditing procedures necessary to afford a reasonable basis 
for an opinion regarding the financial statements under audit,” that “the auditor obtains written 
representations from management to complement other auditing procedures,” and that “[i]n 
exercising professional skepticism, the auditor should not be satisfied with less than persuasive 
evidence because of a belief that management is honest.”  (AU §§ 333.02, 333.03, 230.09).   
Auditors must also: (1) obtain corroboration for management’s explanation regarding significant 
unusual or unexpected transactions, events, amounts or relationships; and (2) perform procedures if 
management’s responses to the auditor’s inquiries appear to be implausible, inconsistent with other 
audit evidence, imprecise or not at a sufficient level of detail to be useful.  (AS 14.8). 
        
       153.   Auditors should also design and perform audit procedures in a manner that 
addresses the assessed risks of material misstatement for each relevant assertion of each significant 
account and disclosure.  (AS 13.8).  In designing such audit procedures, auditors should obtain 
more persuasive audit evidence the higher the auditor’s assessment of risk.  (AS 13.9).  Auditors 
should also perform substantive procedures, including tests of details, for significant risks, and the 
evidence auditors obtain from substantive procedures should increase as the assessed risk of 
material misstatement increases.  (AS 13.11, AS 13.37).   
        
       154.   As a result of Grant Thornton’s conduct described above, Grant Thornton failed to 
obtain sufficient evidence supporting assertions in ALC’s 2009, 2010 and 2011 Form 10-K 
financial statements that ALC was in compliance with the Ventas lease covenants.  In the course of 
its 2009 year end audit of Broadwind, Grant Thornton also failed to obtain sufficient evidence 
supporting the conclusion that the impairment was a fourth-quarter event and that the Customer 2 
bill and hold transaction met the applicable revenue recognition criteria. 
 
               Failure to Properly Supervise the Engagement Team (AU § 311 and AS 10) 
        
       155.   PCAOB standards note that audit “assistants,” including firm personnel other than 
the auditor with final responsibility for the audit, are to be “properly supervised.”  (AU §§ 311.01 
and 311.02).  Those standards further require that assistants be informed of their responsibilities 
and the objectives of procedures assigned to them, and that the work of assistants be reviewed to 
determine whether it was adequately performed. (AU §§ 311.12, 311.13, and AS 10.5).    
        
       156.   As a result of Grant Thornton’s conduct described above, Grant Thornton failed to 
properly supervise the engagement team on its 2009, 2010 and 2011 ALC engagements.  
        
               Failure to Make Additional Inquires or Perform Additional Procedures in the 
               Course of Reviewing Interim Financial Information (AU § 722) 
        
       157.   PCAOB standards provide: 
        

                                                  

                                                33 
---------------------Page 34---------------------

              If, in performing a review of interim financial information, the accountant 
              becomes aware of information that leads him or her to believe that the 
              interim financial information may not be in conformity with generally 
              accepted accounting principles in all material respects, the accountant 
              should make additional inquiries or perform other procedures that the 
              accountant considers appropriate to provide a basis for communicating 
              whether he or she is aware of any material modifications that should be 
              made to the interim financial information. 

       (AU § 722.22). 
        
       158.   As a result of Grant Thornton’s conduct described above, Grant Thornton violated 
AU § 722.22 when it failed to make appropriate additional inquires or perform other procedures 
in the course of its third quarter 2009 review of Broadwind’s impairment assessment. 

              Failure to Prepare Required Documentation (AS 3) 
        
       159.   PCAOB standards mandate that an auditor’s documentation contain sufficient 
information to enable an experienced auditor, having no previous connection to the engagement to: 
(1) understand the nature, timing, extent and results of the procedures performed, evidence 
obtained and conclusions reached; and (2) determine who performed the work and the date such 
work was completed as well as the person who reviewed the work and the date of such review.  
(AS 3.1, 3.6).  Auditors are also required to document significant findings and issues, including the 
actions taken to address them and the basis for the conclusions reached.  (AS 3.12). 
        
       160.   As a result of Grant Thornton’s conduct described above, Grant Thornton failed to 
obtain required audit documentation on its 2009, 2010 and 2011 audits of ALC and its 2009 year 
end audit of Broadwind. 
        
              Failure to Perform Adequate Personnel Management (QC 20 and 40) 
        
       161.   PCAOB Quality Control Standards require an auditing firm to establish policies 
and procedures which provide the firm with reasonable assurance that (a) those hired possess the 
appropriate characteristics to enable them to perform competently and (b) work is assigned to 
personnel having the degree of technical training and proficiency required in the circumstances. 
(QC 20.13 and QC 40.2).  
         
       162.   As a result of Grant Thornton’s conduct described above, Grant Thornton violated 
QC 20.13 and QC 40.2 in staffing the ALC engagements. 
        
                                            Finding 
                                                 
       163.   As a result of the conduct described above, the Commission finds that Grant 
Thornton engaged in improper professional conduct within the meaning of Sections 4C(a)(2) and 
4C(b)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rules 102(e)(1)(ii) and 102(e)(1)(iv)(B) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.  Grant Thornton’s conduct in the 2009, 2010, and 2011 audits of ALC, and its 

                                                 

                                               34 
---------------------Page 35---------------------

2009 third quarter review and year end audit of Broadwind involved repeated instances of 
unreasonable conduct, each resulting in violations of PCAOB standards and indicating a lack of 
competence, and also satisfies the standard of highly unreasonable conduct resulting in violations 
of PCAOB standards in circumstances in which heightened scrutiny was warranted.  
 
      GRANT THORNTON WAS A CAUSE OF VIOLATIONS OF SECTION 13(a) OF  
          THE EXCHANGE ACT AND RULES 13a-1 AND 13a-13 THEREUNDER 
        
       164.   Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder require 
that every issuer of a security registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act file with the 
Commission annual and quarterly reports (i.e., Forms 10-K and 10-Q) as the Commission may 
require.  The obligation to file such reports embodies the requirement that they be true and 
correct. 
        
       165.   ALC’s annual reports on Form 10-K for fiscal years 2009, 2010 and 2011 
included audit reports from Grant Thornton that stated its audits of ALC’s financial statements 
were conducted “in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight 
Board” and that ALC’s financial statements presented fairly, in all material respects, the 
company’s position and results.  Broadwind’s 2009 Form 10-K contained a similar representation 
by Grant Thornton.  These statements were materially misleading.  As a result of Grant 
Thornton’s above-described conduct, Grant Thornton’s 2009, 2010 and 2011 audits of ALC and 
2009 audit of Broadwind were not conducted in accordance with PCAOB standards and the 
financial statements included in ALC’s 2009, 2010 and 2011 Forms 10-K were materially 
misstated because, among other things, they incorrectly represented that ALC was in compliance 
with the Ventas lease financial covenants.  As for Broadwind, its Form 10-Q for the third quarter 
of 2009 materially overstated its intangible assets and understated a material impairment charge, 
and its 2009 10-K misstated revenue and incorrectly described its $58 million impairment charge 
as a fourth quarter event.  At a minimum, Grant Thornton knew or should have known that its 
unreasonable conduct would contribute to ALC’s filing of inaccurate 2009, 2010 and 2011 
Forms 10-K and Broadwind’s filing of an inaccurate third quarter 2009 Form 10-Q and 2009 
Form 10-K. 
        
       166.   As a result of the conduct described above, the Commission finds that Grant 
Thornton was a cause of ALC’s violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 
thereunder and Broadwind’s violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 
and 13a-13 thereunder. 
        
H.     UNDERTAKINGS   

       167.   Grant Thornton’s Review.  Within 120 days after the entry of this Order, Grant 
Thornton shall perform and complete a review and evaluation (“Grant Thornton’s Review”) of the 
sufficiency and adequacy of Grant Thornton’s quality controls, including its policies and 
procedures for audits and interim reviews regarding the following (hereinafter referred to as “Grant 
Thornton’s Policies”):  

                                                

                                              35 
---------------------Page 36---------------------

a)  the exercise of due professional care and professional skepticism (as set forth in 
   AU 230);  
        
b)  auditing estimates (as set forth in AU 342 and AS 14), including, but not limited 
   to:  

       (i)     considering the relevance, reliability, and sufficiency of the factors 
               and data used in forming the assumptions underlying estimates; and 

       (ii)    evaluating the results of procedures performed, including whether 
               the evidence obtained supports or contradicts the estimates included 
               in the financial statements; 

c)  appropriately responding to the risk of material misstatement related to potential 
   impairment, including through the performance of procedures to resolve 
   inconsistencies in the evidence obtained (as set forth in AS 13 and AS 15); 

d)  assessing the risk of fraud, including the risk of fraud involving  management 
   override of controls, and appropriately responding to identified fraud risks (as 
   set forth in AU 316, AS 12, AS 13 and AS 14);   

e)  evaluation of evidence obtained concerning matters that are the subject of 
   written representations from management in order to consider the reliability of 
   the representation made and whether reliance on management’s representations 
   is appropriate and justified (as set forth in AU 333);   

f)  obtaining sufficient appropriate audit evidence (as set forth in AS 15); 

g)  effective supervision by engagement partners and managers, including review 
   of work performed by the engagement team (as set forth in AS 10); 

h)  consultations with local, regional or national office technical oversight 
   professionals; 

i)  appropriate resolution of concerns or disagreements in views among an 
   engagement team regarding conclusions (i.e., accounting and auditing) reached 
   in connection with an audit (as set forth in AS 10);  

j)  audit documentation, including risk assessment procedures and responses, 
   significant findings and resulting actions, work paper sign-off, archiving, and 
   dating (as set forth in AS 3); 

k)  compliance with the requirements for engagement quality reviewers (as set 
   forth in AS 7);  

l)  obtaining reasonable assurance (as set forth in QC 20 and QC 40) that 

                                   

                                 36 
---------------------Page 37---------------------

                      i)      the engagement partner and other individuals assisting the 
                              engagement partner in supervising the engagement possess the 
                              competencies that are necessary and appropriate in the individual 
                              circumstances, and 
                                
                      ii)     work is assigned to personnel having the degree of technical training 
                              and proficiency required in the circumstances;  
                               
               m) the identification, monitoring and remediation of audit partners with negative 
                  quality indicators, including the development and implementation of corrective 
                  actions (as set forth in QC 30); and 

               n)  reporting, evaluation, and compensation of professional practice personnel (as 
                  set forth in QC 20 and QC 40). 

Grant Thornton’s Review shall assess the forgoing areas to determine whether Grant Thornton’s 
Policies are adequate and sufficient to provide reasonable assurance of compliance with all 
relevant Commission regulations and PCAOB standards and rules.   

       168.   Grant Thornton Report.  Within 60 days of completing the Grant Thornton Review, 
Grant Thornton shall deliver to the Commission staff a detailed written report (“Grant Thornton 
Report”) summarizing its review and changes to Grant Thornton’s Policies, if any, to provide 
reasonable assurance of compliance with all relevant Commission regulations and PCAOB 
standards and rules.  The Grant Thornton Report shall identify the undertaking, provide written 
evidence of compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient to 
demonstrate compliance.  The Commission staff may make reasonable requests for further 
evidence of compliance, and Grant Thornton agrees to provide such evidence. 

       169.   Independent Consultant’s Review.  Grant Thornton has undertaken to retain, within 
180 days after the entry of this Order, an independent consultant (“Independent Consultant”), not 
unacceptable to the Commission staff.  Grant Thornton shall provide to the Commission staff a 
copy of the engagement letter detailing the scope of the Independent Consultant’s responsibilities.  
The Independent Consultant’s compensation and expenses shall be borne exclusively by Grant 
Thornton.  Grant Thornton shall deliver to the Independent Consultant the Grant Thornton Report 
at the same time as Grant Thornton provides such report to the Commission staff as specified in 
paragraph 168 above.  Grant Thornton shall require that the Independent Consultant perform a 
review (the “IC Review”) of Grant Thornton’s Policies to determine whether Grant Thornton’s 
Policies are adequate and sufficient to provide reasonable assurance of compliance with all 
relevant Commission regulations and PCAOB standards and rules.  Grant Thornton shall cooperate 
fully with the Independent Consultant and shall provide reasonable access to firm personnel, 
information, and records as the Independent Consultant may reasonably request for the IC Review 
(including training materials pertaining to the undertaking in paragraph 173), subject to Grant 
Thornton’s right to withhold from disclosure any information or records protected by any 
applicable protection or privilege such as the attorney-client privilege or the attorney work product 
doctrine.   

                                                  

                                                37 
---------------------Page 38---------------------

       170.   Independent Consultant’s Report.  After the IC Review is completed, but no later 
than ninety days after receiving the Grant Thornton Report, the Independent Consultant shall issue 
a detailed written report (the “IC Report”) to Grant Thornton:  (a) summarizing the IC Review; and 
(b) making recommendations, where appropriate, reasonably designed to ensure that Grant 
Thornton’s Policies are adequate and sufficient to provide reasonable assurance of compliance 
with all relevant Commission regulations and PCAOB standards and rules.  Grant Thornton shall 
require the Independent Consultant to provide a copy of the IC Report to the Commission staff and 
the PCAOB staff when the IC Report is issued. 

       171.   Grant Thornton shall adopt, as soon as practicable, all recommendations of the 
Independent Consultant in the IC Report.  Provided, however, that within thirty days of issuance of 
the IC Report, Grant Thornton may advise the Independent Consultant in writing of any 
recommendation that it considers to be unnecessary, outside the scope of this Order, unduly 
burdensome, or impractical.  Grant Thornton need not adopt any such recommendation at that 
time, but instead may propose in writing to the Independent Consultant and the Commission staff 
an alternative policy or procedure designed to achieve the same objective or purpose.  Grant 
Thornton and the Independent Consultant shall engage in good-faith negotiations in an effort to 
reach agreement on any recommendations objected to by Grant Thornton.  In the event that the 
Independent Consultant and Grant Thornton are unable to agree on an alternative proposal within 
sixty days, Grant Thornton shall abide by the determinations of the Independent Consultant.   

       172.   Certification by Grant Thornton’s CEO.  Within sixty days of issuance of the IC 
Report, but not sooner than thirty days after a copy of the IC Report is provided to the Commission 
staff, Grant Thornton’s chief executive officer (“CEO”) must certify to the Commission staff in 
writing that (i) Grant Thornton has adopted and has implemented or will implement all 
recommendations of the Independent Consultant, if any; and (ii) the Independent Consultant agrees 
with Grant Thornton’s adoption and implementation of the recommendations.  To the extent that 
Grant Thornton has not implemented all recommendations of the Independent Consultant within 
sixty days of issuance of the IC Report, Grant Thornton’s CEO must certify to the Commission 
staff in writing, thirty days after their implementation, that (i) Grant Thornton has adopted and has 
implemented all recommendations of the Independent Consultant; and (ii) the Independent 
Consultant agrees that the recommendations have been adequately adopted and implemented by 
Grant Thornton.  The certifications by Grant Thornton’s CEO shall identify the undertakings, 
provide written evidence of compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits 
sufficient to demonstrate compliance.  The Commission staff may make reasonable requests for 
further evidence of compliance, and Grant Thornton agrees to provide such evidence. 

       173.   Training.  Prior to November 30, 2016, Grant Thornton shall require each audit 
professional serving public company audits to complete successfully a minimum of 32 hours of 
audit-related training.  The audit-related training shall cover the topics specified in Paragraph 167.  
However, the following topics should be accorded the training hours noted below:  

               a)  At least 8 hours shall be devoted to the importance of exercising due care and 
                  professional skepticism in evaluating audit evidence; 

                                                 

                                                38 
---------------------Page 39---------------------

               b)  At least 4 hours shall be devoted to procedures and techniques used in auditing 
                   estimates; 

               c)   At least 4 hours shall be devoted to the auditor’s responsibilities with respect to 
                   reviews of interim financial information, specifically focusing on circumstances 
                   where extended procedures are appropriate (as discussed in AU § 722.22);  

               d)  At least 8 hours shall be devoted to fraud-detection training.  The training shall 
                   include techniques in detecting and responding to possible fraud in the course of 
                   public company audits by audit clients or by employees, officers or directors of 
                   audit clients.  Particular attention should be focused on the auditor’s 
                   consideration of the impact of audit findings on the assessment of fraud risks as 
                   discussed in AS 14 (Par. 28-29), as well as the documentation requirements 
                   outlined in AU § 316.83.  Such training will also include the auditor’s 
                   responsibilities under Section 10A of the Exchange Act; and 

               e)  At least 4 hours shall be devoted to appropriate reliance on management 
                   representations. 

       174.   To ensure the independence of the Independent Consultant, Grant Thornton: (1) 
shall not have the authority to terminate the Independent Consultant or substitute another 
independent compliance consultant for the initial Independent Consultant, without the prior written 
approval of the Commission staff; and (2) shall compensate the Independent Consultant and 
persons engaged to assist the Independent Consultant for services rendered pursuant to this Order 
at their reasonable and customary rates. 

       175.   Grant Thornton shall require the Independent Consultant to enter into an agreement 
that provides that, for the period of engagement and for a period of two years from completion of 
the engagement, the Independent Consultant shall not enter into any employment, consultant, 
attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with Grant Thornton, or any of its 
present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity as 
such.  The agreement shall also provide that the Independent Consultant will require that any firm 
with which he/she is affiliated or of which he/she is a member, and any person engaged to assist 
the Independent Consultant in performance of his/her duties under this Order shall not, without 
prior written consent of the Division of Enforcement, enter into any employment, consultant, 
attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with Grant Thornton, or any of its 
present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such 
for the period of the engagement and for a period of two years after the engagement. 

       176.   Grant Thornton shall not be in, and shall not have an attorney-client relationship 
with the Independent Consultant and shall not seek to invoke the attorney-client privilege or any 
other doctrine or privilege to prevent the Independent Consultant from transmitting any 
information, reports, or documents to Commission staff. 

       177.   Grant Thornton shall inform its audit professionals of the terms of the Order within 
ten business days after entry of the Order. 

                                                   

                                                 39 
---------------------Page 40---------------------

       178.   By December 31, 2016, Grant Thornton’s CEO shall certify, in writing, compliance 
with the undertakings set forth in paragraphs 173 and 177.  The certification shall identify the 
undertakings, provide written evidence of compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported 
by exhibits sufficient to demonstrate compliance.  The Commission staff may make reasonable 
requests for further evidence of compliance, and Grant Thornton agrees to provide such evidence.   

       179.   Annual Certifications. With respect to each of the calendar year periods 2017 and 
2018, Grant Thornton’s National Managing Partner, Audit Risk Management (“Managing 
Partner”) shall certify that Grant Thornton has assessed whether Grant Thornton’s Policies are 
adequate and sufficient to provide reasonable assurance of compliance with all relevant 
Commission regulations and PCAOB standards and rules by, among other things, testing the firm’s 
implementation of Grant Thornton’s Policies during the twelve (12) months preceding the 
certification (“Annual Certification”).  The Annual Certification shall describe the nature and 
scope of Grant Thornton’s testing.  The Annual Certification shall represent that the Managing 
Partner has reviewed and evaluated the firm’s assessment and testing process and that, based on 
belief and after reasonable inquiry, the Managing Partner believes that Grant Thornton’s Policies 
are adequate and sufficient to provide reasonable assurance of compliance with all relevant 
Commission regulations and PCAOB standards and rules.  If the Managing Partner cannot 
represent that Grant Thornton’s Policies are adequate and sufficient, then the Managing Partner 
shall describe in reasonable detail the reasons for the inability to so certify.  The Managing Partner 
shall provide the Annual Certifications to the Commission’s staff within sixty days of the end of 
the annual period.  Grant Thornton shall preserve and retain all documentation regarding the 
Managing Partner’s Annual Certification for seven (7) years and will make it available to the staffs 
of the Commission or the PCAOB upon request. 

       180.   All reports and certifications mentioned in these undertakings shall be submitted to 
Robert Burson, Associate Regional Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange 
Commission, 175 W. Jackson Blvd., Suite 900, Chicago, IL 60604, with a copy to the Office of 
Chief Counsel of the Enforcement Division. 

       181.   For good cause shown, the Commission staff may extend any of the procedural 
dates relating to the undertakings.  Deadlines for procedural dates shall be counted in calendar 
days, except that if the last day falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the next business day shall be 
considered to be the last day. 

       182.   In determining whether to accept Grant Thornton’s Offer, the Commission has 
considered these undertakings.  Grant Thornton agrees that if the Division of Enforcement believes 
that Grant Thornton has not satisfied these undertakings, it may petition the Commission to reopen 
the matter to determine whether additional sanctions are appropriate. 

                                                  

                                                40 
---------------------Page 41---------------------

                                              IV. 
 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest 
to impose the sanctions agreed to in the Respondent’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.     Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Grant Thornton shall cease and 
desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 13(a) of 
the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1and 13a-13 thereunder. 
        
       B.     Grant Thornton is censured. 
        
       C.     Grant Thornton shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in Section H 
above. 
        
       D.     Grant Thornton shall within 14 days of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement 
of $1,305,396, which represents profits gained as a result of the conduct described herein and 
prejudgment interest of $231,174.19, to the Commission for transfer to the general fund of the 
United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  If timely payment is not 
made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600. 
        
       E.     Grant Thornton shall pay a civil penalty of $3 million to the Commission within 14 
days of the entry of this Order for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject 
to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  If timely payment is not made additional interest shall accrue 
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717.   
        
       F.     Payments ordered in paragraphs D and E above must be made in one of the 
following ways:   
 
              (1)     Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                      will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
               
              (2)     Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
               
              (3)    Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
              Enterprise Services Center 
              Accounts Receivable Branch 
              HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
              6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
              Oklahoma City, OK 73169 

                                                 

                                               41 
---------------------Page 42---------------------

 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Grant Thornton as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a 
copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Robert Burson, Chicago 
Regional Office, Securities and Exchange Commission, 175 West Jackson, Suite 900, Chicago, IL 
60604.     
 
                                                  
        
        
       By the Commission. 
 
                                                    Brent J. Fields 
                                                    Secretary 

                                                  

                                                42 
