---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 75861 / September 9, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3691 / September 9, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16799 
 
                                              
In the Matter of                             ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE -AND-
                                             DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
      SALVATORE J. ZIZZA,                    SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                             EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING 
Respondent.                                  FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE -
                                             AND-DESIST ORDER  AND CIVIL 
                                             PENALTY  
       

                                           I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Salvatore J. Zizza (“Zizza” or “Respondent”).  
                                             
                                           II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondent consents 
to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              III. 
 
                                                                              1
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that:  
 
A.     SUMMARY 
 
       1.     These proceedings concern materially misleading statements and omissions made 
by Zizza, the chief executive officer (“CEO”) of General Employment Enterprises, Inc. (“GEE” or 
the “Company”), to the Company’s auditors concerning the return of $2.3 million from related 
parties after the money was unaccounted for.     

B.     RESPONDENT 
 
       2.     Zizza, age 69 and a resident of New York, New York, served as the CEO of GEE 
from December 23, 2009, through December 2012.          

C.     RELEVANT ENTITIES AND INDIVIDUALS 
 
       3.     GEE is an Illinois corporation headquartered in Oakbrook Terrace, Illinois that 
provides professional placement services and temporary staffing services in certain industries.  
GEE’s common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the 
Exchange Act and trades on the NYSE MKT stock exchange.  GEE files periodic reports, 
including Forms 10-K and 10-Q, with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange 
Act and related rules thereunder.    

       4.     River Falls Financial Services, LLC (“River Falls Financial”), River Falls 
Investments, LLC f/k/a Oxygen Unlimited II, LLC (“River Falls Investments”), River Falls 
Holdings, LLC (“RFH”), Accredited Investor Resources, LLC f/k/a Oxygen Investment 
Partners, LLC (“AIR”), Oxygen Unlimited, LLC (“Oxygen”), O2HR, LLC (“O2HR”), SDH 
Realty, LLC (“SDH”), WTS Acquisition LLC (“WTS”), H2H Holdings, LLC (“H2H”), and 
PSQ, LLC (“PSQ”) (collectively, the “Affiliated Entities”) are purported holding, investment, 
employment-related, and insurance companies.  River Falls Financial, AIR’s administrative 
member, purportedly owned at least 99% of AIR’s common units and millions of dollars of AIR’s 
preferred units.  AIR was purportedly an investment company designed to make investments in 
River Falls Investments and certain other of the Affiliated Entities.  River Falls Investments was a 
purported holding company of Oxygen, which was a purported holding company of O2HR, a 
professional employer organization.  RFH was the purported holding company of River Falls 
Investments.  PSQ was a purported holding company whose sole asset was GEE shares 
representing a controlling stake in the Company acquired as of July 1, 2009.      
        
                                                                            2
       5.     During at least 2009 and 2010, Wilbur Anthony Huff (“Huff”)  exercised 
substantial financial and management control over numerous entities, including, among others, the 

                                                 
1
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent  ’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding 
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                                
 
                                               2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

Affiliated Entities and their holdings.  As a convicted felon, Huff faced legal and practical barriers 
to operating business entities in his own name, particularly business in regulated industries, 
including employment-related, insurance, and banking companies.  Huff installed other business 
partners, including Pence, to perform day-to-day operational functions and/or serve as the listed 
owners, directors, or managers.  Zizza first met Huff and Pence in 2008 when Huff asked for 
Zizza’s help raising money for Oxygen and River Falls Investments.  Zizza also attended a 
conference at which Huff discussed various AIR-related investments.   
        
       6.      Park Avenue Bank (“PAB” or “the Bank”) was a New York State chartered bank 
until it was closed by the New York State Banking Department on March 12, 2010, and the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation was named Receiver.  The Affiliated Entities primarily 
conducted their banking business through PAB.  Charles J. Antonucci, Sr. (“Antonucci”) served 
as the president and CEO of PAB from June 2004 until October 2009.  In October 2010, Antonucci 
pled guilty to multiple criminal charges, including securities fraud, bank bribery, embezzlement, 
and providing a false confirmation to BDO of GEE’s purported CD at PAB.  Separately, Park 
Avenue Insurance was a private insurance company owned by Antonucci that was not affiliated 
with PAB.   

       7.      BDO USA, LLP (“BDO”), formerly known as BDO Seidman, LLP, is a Delaware 
limited liability partnership and a PCAOB-registered public accounting firm with its headquarters 
in Chicago, Illinois.  BDO served as GEE’s independent auditor from 2004 through 2012. 

       8.      Stephen B. Pence (“Pence”) served as the chairman of the board of GEE from July 
1, 2009, through November 17, 2010.  Although Pence purported to be the sole member and owner 
of PSQ, whose sole asset was the GEE shares representing a controlling stake in the Company as 
of July 1, 2009, PSQ was one of the Affiliated Entities over which Huff exercised substantial 
financial and management control.  PSQ’s acquisition of GEE stake was funded by AIR and 
Oxygen.  Pence also represented to BDO that he was the 100% owner of River Falls Financial, 
another of the Affiliated Entities.  Huff directed substantial monthly payments to Pence ($25,000) 
from several of the Affiliated Entities to ensure his control over, and ability to influence, GEE’s 
operations.  Pence formerly served as the lieutenant governor of Kentucky from 2003 to 2007 and 
the United States Attorney for the Western District of Kentucky from 2001 to 2003.   

                                                                                                                                                             
2
 Huff pled guilty to federal mail fraud charges for obtaining insurance premium finance loans 
under false pretenses in the Western District of Kentucky in 2003.   In 2008, the Commission   filed 
charges against Huff related to a scheme to misappropriate assets  from  and  to record fake letters of 
c redit  at  Certified Services, Inc.  SEC v. Huff, 08-CV-60315 (S.D. Fla.).  On October 22, 2010, the 
Court entered judgment for the Commission against Huff requiring him to pay more than $13 
million, among other relief.  Separately, after an October 2012 indictment against him, Huff pled 
guilty on December 23, 2014 to an information, which alleged, among other things, that:  (1) Huff 
controlled GEE, in whole or in part, by installing other individuals; (2) Huff participated with 
Antonucci in a conspiracy in which they stole $2.3 million from GEE and Huff later returned the 
$2.3 million to GEE from three companies he controlled; and (3) a large portion of the $2.3 million 
received by GEE were funds entrusted to Oxygen by its clients for payment of the clients’ 
employment tax and other obligations.  U.S. v. Huff, 12-CR-750 (S.D.N.Y.). 

                                                   
 
                                                  3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       9.     Ronald E. Heineman (“Heineman”) was appointed as the CEO of GEE on July 1, 
2009, in connection with PSQ’s acquisition of a controlling stake in GEE.  Heineman served as 
CEO until his resignation on December 23, 2009, in connection with the events described herein.  
Zizza was appointed as GEE’s CEO to replace Heineman on the same day.  Huff directed 
substantial monthly payments to Heineman ($15,000) from the Affiliated Entities during this time 
period.   

       10.    Associate-1 was another of Huff’s business partners and was listed or served at 
various times as a manager of River Falls Investments, Oxygen, and O2HR, and as co-manager of 
River Falls Financial with Heineman.  Associate-1 was also involved in PSQ’s acquisition of a 
controlling stake in GEE and attended several GEE board meetings in 2009.  In addition, from July 
2009 until September 2009, Associate-1 was a signatory on GEE’s bank account at PAB despite 
the fact that Associate-1 was not an official employee, officer, or director of the Company.   
Associate-1 also purported to be the owner of WTS (another of the Affiliated Entities), a holding 
company of On-Site Services, Inc. (“On-Site”) and Ameritemps, Inc. (“Ameritemps”), which 
WTS had acquired in January 2009 with funding from other Affiliated Entities.   

D.     BACKGROUND 
 
       11.    Zizza became CEO of GEE on December 23, 2009, after a period of prior business 
dealings with Huff, Pence, and other entities and individuals associated with them.  In December 
2009, shortly before and after he became GEE’s CEO, Zizza engaged in a series of conversations 
with the company’s auditor, BDO, concerning the circumstances surrounding the return of $2.3 
million that GEE had purportedly invested in a CD issued by PAB. 

       12.    GEE’s May 18, 2009, definitive proxy statement disclosed that in January 2009, 
GEE began discussions with representatives of River Falls Financial concerning the possibility of a 
tender offer and direct cash investment in GEE.  The River Falls Financial representatives included 
Heineman and Pence, and Huff was present for one of the relevant meetings.  At all relevant times, 
Zizza was aware that Huff was a convicted felon.  The proxy statement further disclosed that, on 
February 11, 2009, River Falls Financial and PSQ, a special purpose vehicle purportedly formed 
by Pence, entered into a non-binding letter of intent with GEE for a purchase and tender offer 
agreement to obtain a controlling stake in GEE.   

       13.    In 2009, Zizza understood that Pence had a managerial role with certain of the 
Affiliated Entities, including River Falls Financial and River Falls Investments.  In the spring of 
2009, Zizza signed a loan commitment term sheet on behalf of Metropolitan Paper Recycling, Inc. 
(“MPR”), a company 50% owned by Zizza, in which River Falls Investments agreed to provide $3 
million in financing to MPR.  Zizza signed the agreement as MPR’s chairman, and Pence signed as 
River Falls Investments’s manager.  While Zizza understood that Pence had a managerial role with 
River Falls Investments, he also knew or should have known that Huff exercised substantial 
financial and management control over River Falls Investments.  Zizza also knew or should have 
known that Huff exercised substantial financial and management control over River Falls Financial 
because on January 4, 2010, MPR received a loan of $200,000 from River Falls Financial at Huff’s 
direction. 

                                                 
 
                                               4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       14.    According to GEE’s May 18, 2009, definitive proxy statement, on March 30, 2009, 
after negotiations continued following the February 2009 non-binding letter of intent, Pence signed 
on behalf of PSQ a definitive securities purchase and tender offer agreement (the “Purchase 
Agreement”).  The Purchase Agreement provided that, subject to shareholder approval, PSQ would 
acquire a controlling stake in GEE by (1) purchasing 7,700,000 newly-issued shares of GEE 
common stock in a private placement transaction at a purchase price of $0.25 per share for a total 
purchase price of $1,925,000; (2) commencing a cash tender offer to purchase from the Company’s 
shareholders up to 2,500,000 shares of common stock at a purchase price of $0.60 per share; (3) 
appointing three directors to a five-member board of directors, including Pence becoming the 
chairman of the board; and (4) designating Heineman GEE’s CEO.  On June 22, 2009, a GEE 
press release announced that shareholders approved the Purchase Agreement and the closing of the 
Purchase Agreement was announced on July 1, 2009.  As a result, PSQ acquired more than 65% 
ownership of the Company, Pence became GEE’s chairman and appointed two other directors, and 
Heineman became GEE’s CEO. 

       15.    Although Pence purported to be sole member and owner of PSQ, as Zizza knew or 
should have known, PSQ was one of the Affiliated Entities over which Huff exercised substantial 
financial and management control.  Virtually all of the funds deposited in PSQ’s bank accounts 
during 2009 were deposits made directly from several of the Affiliated Entities, including AIR, 
Oxygen, River Falls Financial, and RFH, typically at the direction of Huff.  Specifically, in almost 
every instance in which PSQ needed to make a payment, PSQ received the necessary funds from 
one of the Affiliated Entities and immediately paid the obligation with the deposited funds.  For 
example, to fund PSQ’s obligations under the Purchase Agreement, AIR transferred $1,925,000 to 
PSQ, and to cover PSQ’s tender offer obligations, AIR transferred $850,000 and Oxygen 
transferred $372,000 (a total of $1,222,000) to PSQ.  In exchange, Huff required Pence to sign two 
purported promissory notes to AIR in his personal capacity for these amounts ($1,925,000 and 
$1,222,000), even though $372,000 had been provided by Oxygen.  Although the two promissory 
notes required Pence to pay annual interest of 5%, Huff did not actually require Pence to make any 
interest payments to AIR and no payments were made.   

       16.    In late June 2009, Pence arranged for Associate-1 to become a signatory on GEE’s 
bank account at PAB and Associate-1 remained a signatory from July 2009 until September 2009.  
In addition, Associate-1 negotiated certain employment and other agreements on behalf of GEE, 
and Associate-1 attended several GEE board meetings in 2009.  At the same time, Huff and 
Associate-1 controlled WTS, which owned a number of companies that Huff and Associate-1 
intended to sell to GEE.  Because Huff and Associate-1 controlled WTS, Pence did not appoint 
Associate-1 to be an officer, director, or employee of GEE, which avoided scrutiny of this clear 
conflict of interest. 

       17.    Huff and his business partners—including Pence, Heineman, and Associate-1—
created a number of oral and written side agreements regarding ownership, profit sharing, and 
management of the Affiliated Entities.  For example, at the time AIR purportedly loaned Pence the 
funds for PSQ’s transaction with GEE, Pence had no ability to repay the loans without fully 
liquidating the GEE shares purchased by PSQ.  Thus, in consideration for AIR’s purported loans to 
Pence, Pence and Huff orally agreed that if GEE’s stock price increased Pence would compensate 
AIR with GEE shares in addition to repaying the amounts of the promissory notes.  As a result, 

                                                 
 
                                               5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

Huff and AIR had a beneficial ownership interest in the GEE shares held by PSQ, which was not 
disclosed.   

       18.    From March 2009 through at least April 2010, in connection with PSQ’s majority 
ownership of GEE, PSQ paid Zizza $20,000 per month for consulting work.  Huff funded PSQ’s 
payments to Zizza through the Affiliated Entities.  For example, Pence notified Huff on January 2, 
2010 that PSQ needed to pay Zizza for consulting and specifically asked Huff and Huff’s assistant 
to deposit money into PSQ’s account so PSQ could pay Zizza.  Huff’s assistant sent PSQ a check 
from a River Falls Financial account on January 4, 2010, and Pence sent Zizza a check from PSQ’s 
account for $20,000 on the same date.  Zizza advised Pence and Huff on several acquisitions that 
GEE was considering in 2009.  Huff and Pence also promised Zizza that if GEE’s stock price 
increased, they would compensate Zizza with at least 500,000 GEE shares.  Zizza learned that AIR 
had financed PSQ’s purchase of the controlling stake in GEE.  Zizza subsequently became the 
CEO of GEE on December 23, 2009.   

       19.    Huff covertly exercised influence and control over GEE operations through Pence 
and Heineman as a result of his control over AIR, which financed PSQ’s investment in GEE.  Huff 
also sent substantial monthly payments to Pence ($25,000), Zizza ($20,000), and Heineman 
($15,000) from several of the Affiliated Entities in an attempt to ensure his control over, and ability 
to influence, GEE operations.   

       20.    Huff exerted control over GEE by, among other things, causing GEE to acquire 
several entities owned by WTS, which Huff and Associate-1 controlled.  For example, at a GEE 
board meeting on August 10, 2009, attended by Pence and Zizza (as Pence’s guest), Heineman 
convinced the GEE board of directors to authorize him to enter into a letter of intent with WTS to 
acquire its subsidiary On-Site, which was publicly announced on September 6, 2009.  Thereafter, 
in June 2010, while Zizza was GEE’s CEO, GEE acquired On-Site, resulting in a financial benefit 
to Huff.  In November 2010, GEE acquired additional assets of WTS doing business as 
Ameritemps, RFFG of Cleveland, LLC and DMCC Staffing, LLC, again resulting in a financial 
benefit to Huff.  During 2010, Zizza had numerous discussions with Huff concerning these 
acquisitions. 

E.     ZIZZA KNEW OR SHOULD HAVE KNOWN THAT THE PURPORTED $2.3 
       MILLION CD ASSIGNMENT WAS A RELATED PARTY TRANSACTION 
 
       21.    As part of the July 2009 closing of PSQ’s Purchase Agreement with GEE, GEE 
opened a checking account at PAB into which PSQ’s escrowed $1,925,000 would be deposited 
upon the closing.  In June 2009, Associate-1 coordinated with GEE’s chief financial officer (the 
“GEE CFO”) to have the GEE checking account opened at PAB and the authorized signatories on 
the account were the GEE CFO, Pence, and Associate-1.  The GEE CFO, Pence, and Associate-1 
remained the only authorized signatories on the account until September 2009, at which time 
Associate-1 was removed and Heineman was added.  Following the closing, in early July 2009, 
GEE transferred an additional $750,000 from GEE’s accounts at other banks to the GEE PAB 
checking account.  The approximately $2.6 million deposited in the GEE PAB checking account 
constituted substantially all of GEE’s cash and half of its assets.     
        

                                                
 
                                              6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

       22.    In approximately July 2009, in a conversation in which Zizza did not participate, 
Huff discussed with Pence, GEE’s chairman, the possibility of the Company investing money in 
Park Avenue Insurance to achieve greater returns on GEE’s cash.  Park Avenue Insurance was a 
private insurance company owned by Antonucci that was not affiliated with PAB and Pence had 
served as Park Avenue Insurance’s president during part of 2009.     

       23.    GEE’s fiscal year ended on September 30, 2009.  GEE’s CFO identified that $2.3 
million had been withdrawn from the GEE PAB operating account on July 23, 2009, without the 
GEE CFO’s knowledge.  The GEE CFO reported that when he asked about the withdrawn funds, 
GEE’s CEO Heineman claimed that he had authorized GEE to invest $2.3 million into a CD at 
PAB.  The GEE CFO also reported that, although he had repeatedly requested documentation 
concerning the purported CD, such as a written approval or account agreement—and cited the lack 
of documentation as a control deficiency—Heineman only provided the GEE CFO with a one-page 
PDF of a typewritten “Certificate of Deposit Receipt” for $2.3 million with a single maturity date 
of October 21, 2009, and interest rate of two percent.  This information became known to Zizza 
before he became GEE’s CEO on December 23, 2009. 

       24.    In early November 2009, the GEE CFO noticed that PAB had not remitted the 
proceeds of the purported CD of $2.3 million plus interest into GEE’s operating account upon the 
maturity date, October 21, 2009.  When the GEE CFO contacted PAB, a PAB representative stated 
that the Bank had no record of the purported CD in its system.  The GEE CFO then pressed both 
Heineman and Pence for an explanation.  On November 9, 2009, Pence asked Heineman for 
information about the purported CD; Heineman responded to Pence that Huff would contact PAB 
on GEE’s behalf.   

       25.    According to the minutes of a November 23, 2009, audit committee meeting, 
attended by BDO, the GEE CFO reported his concerns that GEE had little documentation 
supporting the purported CD, including no written authorization from an account signatory and no 
deposit agreement.  According to the minutes, Heineman claimed that he authorized the purported 
CD at Pence’s direction, and claimed the lack of documentation was due to “the rapid pace of the 
transactions in which he had been involved, coupled with reorganization and personnel changes at 
Park Avenue Bank.”  Heineman next stated that he had anticipated that the CD would be 
maintained on a continuing renewal basis but he had asked Pence to liquidate the purported CD 
and have the funds transferred into the PAB checking account by the end of the week.  The 
minutes also state that the BDO engagement partner “said that the audit was substantially 
completed, pending resolution of the missing funds issue, receipt of legal letters from counsel, and 
the executed management representation letter” and that BDO “would be issuing an unqualified 
opinion on the consolidated financial statements.”    
        
       26.    On November 24, 25, and 27, 2009, Huff directed and caused a total of $900,000 to 
be transferred to GEE’s bank accounts in installment payments of $300,000 on each such date 
from the bank accounts of two Affiliated Entities:  SDH and Oxygen.     
        
       27.    On November 28, 2009, Pence emailed Zizza that an audit committee member, 
whom Pence had appointed in connection with the PSQ transactions in July (the “AC Member”), 
“is going to handle the issue with the CD” at the GEE board of directors meeting on November 30, 

                                                
 
                                               7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

2009.  Pence stated:  “I would like for you to talk with him before then . . . .  I think he has a good 
idea.”  Zizza replied:  “Ok will do.” 
        
       28.    On November 30, 2009, Pence, Zizza, Heineman, and the AC Member attended a 
GEE board of directors meeting.  Zizza, who had no formal role at GEE at this time, attended as an 
“invited guest.”  The board minutes indicate that the audit committee chairman (the “AC Chair”) 
explained that the Company’s Form 10-K had not yet been filed because BDO’s “final” opinion 
was predicated on the satisfactory accounting for the PAB CD and an explanation for where GEE’s 
funds had been since the CD matured on October 21.  During this November 30, 2009, board 
meeting, the AC Member stated he believed that the situation occurred as a result of administrative 
errors on the part of the Bank, and Pence said that the AC Member had agreed to pursue the matter 
with PAB.  Neither Pence nor Heineman (or anyone else) mentioned anything about GEE selling 
or assigning the purported CD to a third party.    
        
       29.    On December 4, 2009, the BDO engagement partner on the GEE audit sent an 
email to the AC Chair, Heineman, and Pence, among others, summarizing the open items requiring 
resolution prior to the issuance of BDO’s audit report.  The email begins by noting that after the 
CD had matured in October 2009, when the GEE CFO had contacted the Bank, a PAB 
representative informed the GEE CFO that there was no record of the purported CD and that after 
some investigation by the AC Member, “in late November it was determined that the funds would 
be returned to GEE in installments.”  The email then notes that GEE had received the following 
wire transfers:  (i) November 24:  $300,000 wire transfer from SDH; (ii) November 25:  $300,000 
wire transfer from Oxygen; (iii) November 27:  $300,000 wire transfer from SDH; and (iv) 
December 1:  $100,000 wire transfer from Oxygen.  It then stated that the BDO engagement 
partner had discussed the matter with Heineman and Pence, who both referred him to the AC 
Member who was working directly with PAB on the matter, and that the AC Member left him a 
voicemail “indicating the bank continues to put money against the CD they owe [GEE] and it 
should be fully repaid by the close of business on Monday, Dec. 7” and that the Bank would 
provide a short apology note.   
        
       30.    Later in the day on December 4, the AC Chair sent an email to the BDO 
engagement partner and concurring partner summarizing his call with the AC Member, stating that 
when he spoke with the AC Member “he told me that [PAB] had reported these transaction [sic] to 
the FDIC and that the money sent to the various entities that are now sending GEE the money are 
sending us the banks money rather than sending it back to the bank.”  The AC Chair continued:  
“This makes absolutely no sense.  It looks like [PAB] is on the verge of failing.  The FDIC and a 
bankruptcy estate are going to require [PAB] to collect every cent they can under loans or other 
arrangements to settle with the creditors of the bank before they send money to third parties.”   
        
       31.    The following day, on December 5, 2009, the AC Chair emailed GEE’s board 
(including Pence) and Heineman calling for a special audit committee meeting on December 9 
because of “several unanswered questions related to $2.3 million of the Company’s cash which 
supposedly was invested in a Certificate of Deposit (‘CD’) at Park Avenue Bank which will need 
to be answered before BDO will complete their Audit Report for the Company’s fiscal year ended 
September 30, 2009.”  The AC Chair’s email noted several issues, including that (i) there was no 

                                                 
 
                                               8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

account agreement with PAB or regular reporting on the CD; (ii) PAB did not remit the proceeds 
of the CD into GEE’s operating account when it reached its maturity date on October 21, 2009; 
(iii) PAB provided no explanation to the GEE CFO when he attempted to investigate; and (iv) the 
AC Member who took the lead on this matter with PAB “was informed on or about November 21, 
2009, that the funds would be returned to [GEE] in a series of deposits.”  The email also provided a 
chart of seven wire transfers totaling $1.7 million, which included the four noted in Henaghan’s 
December 4 email plus a December 2, 2009, wire transfer from Oxygen for $100,000, a December 
2, 2009, wire transfer from River Falls Financial of $300,000, and a December 3, 2009, wire 
transfer from River Falls Financial also for $300,000.  The address listed for both SDH and River 
Falls Financial on each of their wire transfers in the chart was 11921 Brinley Ave, Louisville, KY.     

       32.    On December 4 and December 9, 2009, GEE received two additional wire transfers 
from River Falls Financial for $300,000 each, bringing the total amount received by GEE from 
River Falls Financial to $1.2 million and the total of the nine wire transfers to $2.3 million, the 
same amount that Heineman had purported to invest in a CD.  Zizza knew or should have known 
that Huff, in conjunction with Associate-1, directed the transfers from SDH, Oxygen, and River 
Falls Financial to return the missing funds to GEE. 

       33.    On December 8, the AC Chair emailed the BDO engagement partner, providing 
some links he suggested the BDO engagement partner review before he had a conversation with 
the AC Member and any representatives of PAB, “particularly the Anthony Huff links” and 
explained that he “met Anthony Huff when we went to New York” to negotiate PSQ’s acquisition.  
The email included links to a press release announcing the Commission’s lawsuit against Huff, a 
link to Huff’s website noting the address 11921 Brinley Avenue, Louisville, KY in the text of the 
email, and a link to the website for Oxygen noting the identical address.  This is the same address 
that appeared in the wires sent to GEE by River Falls Financial and SDH, as noted in the AC 
Chair’s December 5 email described in paragraph 31, above.  Also, Huff’s website at the time 
contained references to River Falls Investments, SDH, Oxygen, and O2HR. 

       34.    Also on December 8, 2009, the day before the special audit committee meeting, the 
AC Chair received an email from Heineman to the audit committee with several attachments.  
Heineman’s email purported to offer a new explanation for why GEE had received $2.3 million 
from the three entities rather than PAB.  Heineman claimed that he had negotiated an assignment 
agreement with the manager of River Falls Investments (Associate-1), who “offered to purchase” 
the purported CD from GEE at face value.  Heineman also attached to his email an unsigned, draft 
assignment agreement and a letter from Heineman to PAB, dated July 21, 2009, that purportedly 
authorized the $2.3 million CD investment.  Heineman’s email also attached a July 2009 monthly 
statement for GEE’s operating account at PAB, which included the description of the $2.3 million 
withdrawal as a debit on July 23 with a debit memo stating in handwriting:  “To:  Park Avenue 
Insurance, See Attachment Approval, $2,300,000.00.”  Park Avenue Insurance was a private 
insurance company separately owned by Antonucci that was not affiliated with PAB. 

       35.    According to the minutes of GEE’s audit committee meeting on December 9, 2009: 
        
             The BDO engagement partner expressed concern that BDO still did not have a clear 
              understanding of the purported CD transaction.   

                                                 
 
                                               9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

             The BDO engagement partner said that BDO needed to understand the nature of the 
              purported administrative errors at PAB that he had been told were responsible for 
              the lack of proper documentation regarding the CD transaction.  He also explained 
              that BDO required documentation validating the banking transactions, and an 
              explanation as to why there was no existence of an account agreement with the 
              Bank or no record of the CD being at the bank. 

             Another BDO partner, BDO’s Midwest Regional Business Line Leader, said he 
              believed members of GEE’s senior management appeared hesitant to provide 
              information related to these transactions.   

             The BDO engagement partner stated that the assignment agreement did not resolve 
              the outstanding issues as BDO still needed to know what transpired within PAB 
              and make a determination of whether the assignment agreement with River Falls 
              Investments was a related party transaction. 

             BDO also advised that although the assignment agreement “may reduce or 
              eliminate the need for going concern disclosure, it would increase the requirement 
              that management provide sufficient disclosure regarding any related party 
              conflicts.”  

       36.    On December 14, 2009, GEE’s outside counsel sent PAB a formal letter requesting 
all documentation and information concerning the purported CD.  PAB’s December 16, 2009, 
response provided only documents relating to GEE’s checking account and did not provide any 
documents or other information about the purported CD.  The checking account documentation, 
however, indicated that only Associate-1, the GEE CFO, and Pence were authorized signers on 
GEE’s account from July to September 2009—not Heineman—and the checking account 
statements reflected a debit memo for the transfer of $2.3 million of GEE’s cash to Park Avenue 
Insurance on July 23, 2009.  At some point in December 2009, Zizza understood that a debit memo 
attached to the GEE PAB July 2009 account statement stated that the $2.3 million had been 
transferred to Park Avenue Insurance, not into a purported CD. 

       37.    On the evening of December 17, 2009, Zizza emailed Pence that BDO’s Midwest 
Regional Business Line Leader “w[ould] take a call from us to resolve the Bank issue and then 
issue the statement.”  The following day, Pence emailed Zizza stating, “We need to decide 
[Heineman’s] fate quickly.”  Zizza spoke to BDO’s Midwest Regional Business Line Leader 
concerning GEE. 

       38.    On December 22, 2009, BDO sent the AC Chair a letter stating that BDO did not 
have sufficient audit evidence to formally conclude the audit and demanded an independent 
investigation (“BDO’s demand letter”).  BDO’s demand letter noted identified multiple 
inconsistencies and problems in the audit evidence BDO had received regarding the purported CD, 
including that a number of significant questions remained unanswered concerning both the 
existence of the purported CD (e.g., why bank records provided by PAB showed a transfer of $2.3 
million to Park Avenue Insurance) and the manner in which $2.3 million had been transferred to 
the Company by the Affiliated Entities (e.g., why Associate-1 would pay 100% of the face value of 

                                                 
 
                                              10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

the purported CD after the maturity date had expired without payment by PAB, why had River 
Falls Financial—purportedly owned by Pence—transferred approximately $1 million to GEE in 
connection with the alleged assignment of the purported CD to River Falls Investments, and why 
Heineman had made inconsistent representations about his involvement in negotiating the alleged 
assignment with Associate-1).  Pence forwarded BDO’s demand letter to Zizza and Associate-1, 
the purported manager of River Falls Investments.   

       39.    On the evening of December 22, 2009, BDO learned that the audit committee 
meeting that was scheduled for the following day had been cancelled, Zizza, an advisor to Pence 
who had attended GEE board meetings through the fall of 2009, would be taking over as CEO, and 
that Pence and Associate-1 intended to prepare written responses to each of the issues identified in 
the December 21 letter.  On December 23, 2009, Heineman formally resigned as GEE’s CEO and  
that same day Pence appointed Zizza to be GEE’s new CEO.   
        
       40.    Zizza, over the course of many years, had brought new business to BDO in the 
form of several auditing clients.  A senior partner in BDO’s New York office (the “BDO NY 
Partner”) handled some of Zizza’s other business relationships with BDO, including audit or tax 
work for Zizza’s private company and three public companies for which Zizza served as a board 
member.  Thereafter, the NY Partner reached out to auditors in BDO’s Chicago and national 
offices to vouch for Zizza.   

       41.    On December 24, 2009, after reviewing BDO’s demand letter, Zizza participated in 
two calls with BDO, one that included the AC Chair and another that included both the AC Chair 
and Pence.  The BDO NY Partner also participated in the call with Zizza and the AC Chair.  
During those calls, Zizza requested that BDO conclude the audit without the need for an 
independent investigation because GEE had full control of the $2.3 million in question and because 
he had replaced Heineman as CEO.  When BDO asked Zizza about the CD and the assignment 
agreement, Zizza stated that he was comfortable with issuing the financial statements because GEE 
had control over the $2.3 million that had been missing.   

       42.    Although a number of critical questions raised in BDO’s demand letter remained 
unanswered, shortly after the December 24 telephone conversations with Zizza, BDO issued an 
audit report containing an unqualified opinion on GEE’s 2009 financial statements.  Zizza also 
advised GEE’s audit committee that, in his opinion, there was no need to investigate the potential 
related party issues arising out of the assignment agreement between GEE and River Falls 
Investments. 

       43.    On January 8, 2010, Zizza signed a representation letter to BDO that stated the 
following: 
        
              The following, where applicable and material, have been properly recorded or 
              disclosed in the consolidated financial statements:  (a) Related-party transactions 
              (e.g., transactions with unconsolidated subsidiaries; affiliates under common 
              control with the Company or that are directly or indirectly controlled by the 
              Company; principal owners of record or known beneficial interest of 10 percent 
              or more of the Company’s voting stock, directors, management, and members of 

                                                 
 
                                               11 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

              their immediate families), including sales, purchases, loans, transfers, leasing 
              arrangements, and guarantees, and amounts receivable from or payable to 
              related parties . . .  
               
              In July 2009 the Company purchased a $2.3 million certificate of deposit (CD) at 
              Park Avenue Bank. When the CD matured in October 2009 the bank did not 
              refund the proceeds to the Company. To date the Company has not received an 
              adequate explanation for the bank’s non-performance relating to the CD. The 
              Company is not aware of why the Company did not receive the proceeds from its 
              Park Avenue Bank certificate of deposit upon its maturity and has provided you 
              all information available to it in regards to this matter. In December 2009 the 
              Company was reimbursed in full through a non-recourse assignment of the CD to 
              an unrelated party, who has a business interest in the viability of bank. There are 
              no side letters, e-mails, or other agreements (oral or written) that materially alter 
              the terms of the assignment agreement. 
               
       44.    Zizza’s representations to BDO in phone calls and in the management 
representation letter were materially misleading because, among other things, Zizza knew or 
should have known that:  

              a.  On paper, Pence was an indirect owner of River Falls Investments, the entity 
                  that signed the alleged assignment agreement and had signed loan agreements 
                  as River Falls Investments’s manager;  

              b.  Huff controlled River Falls Investments and River Falls Financial;  

              c.  Huff had directed the Affiliated Entities to transfer $2.3 million to GEE to 
                  preserve the financial viability of GEE for the benefit of AIR, Huff, and PSQ; 
                  and  

              d.  Pence, Zizza, Huff and Associate-1 had unwritten agreements, as described in 
                  paragraphs 17 and 18 above, whereby they would benefit from the rise in 
                  GEE’s stock price. 

       45.    Among other things, Zizza also knew or should have known that the assignment 
agreement between GEE and River Falls Investments was a related party transaction given Huff’s 
influence and control—and Pence’s control, on paper—over both entities.   
        
       46.    On January 8, 2010, Zizza signed GEE’s Form 10-K, which classified the $2.3 
million purported CD as a cash equivalent and stated in a footnote disclosure to the financial 
statements: 
        
              In July 2009, the Company purchased a $2,300,000 certificate of deposit (“CD”) at 
              a New York bank.  When the CD matured in October 2009, the bank did not timely 
              credit the proceeds of the CD to the Company’s account.  Although the Company 
              has made a formal inquiry of the bank, to date the Company has not received an 

                                                 
 
                                               12 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

               adequate explanation for the bank’s non-performance relating to the CD.  In 
               December 2009, the Company was reimbursed in full through a non-recourse 
               assignment of the CD for face value to an unrelated party, who has other business 
               interests with the bank. The purchaser of the CD is neither an employee nor a 
               director of the Company. 

       47.    GEE’s 2009 Form 10-K was materially misstated because, among other things, it 
incorrectly represented GEE had a $2.3 million CD and classified it as a cash equivalent as of 
September 30, 2009, and did not disclose the assignment agreement as a related party transaction 
given Huff’s influence and control—and Pence’s control, on paper—over both entities. 
        
       48.    On March 13, 2010, the United States of America filed a 44-page criminal 
Complaint against former PAB president Antonucci (the “Antonucci Complaint”), alleging a 
scheme and conspiracy involving a $6.5 million round-trip transaction in which GEE’s $2.3 
million was diverted as part of the conspiracy.  Huff, Heineman, and Pence are referred to and 
identifiable as designated “co-conspirator[s] not named herein” in certain aspects of that 
conspiracy.  The allegations in the Antonucci Complaint contained several details that indicated 
that GEE did not have a CD with PAB, that River Falls Financial, River Falls Investments, 
Oxygen, SDH, and PSQ were related parties, and that Heineman had authorized the money to be 
transferred to Park Avenue Insurance as part of the conspiracy, and not to purchase a CD: 
        
     “To hide the improper diversion of GEE’s funds from GEE’s auditors and Board of 
       Directors, [Antonucci] and others created a counterfeit certificate of deposit [], falsely 
       representing that GEE’s $2.3 million had been invested in a 90-day certificate of deposit at 
       the Bank.  In fact, and as [Antonucci] well knew, there was no $2.3 million CD.” 

     GEE’s $2.3 million had been transferred to Park Avenue Insurance, which was controlled 
       by Antonucci.  According to the Bank records, Heineman authorized this transfer. 

     Antonucci fraudulently signed the BDO confirmation of the $2.3 million CD, when 
       Antonucci knew it did not exist. 
                               
The Antonucci Complaint further identified several “Oxygen-related entities” as participants in the 
conspiracy, including, River Falls Financial (which Pence said he owned), PSQ (Pence’s entity that 
purchased the majority stake in GEE), and Oxygen and SDH—two companies that paid GEE 
purportedly under the assignment agreement with River Falls Investments (which [Associate-1] 
said he and a Huff family trust owned).  It further alleged that a group of five associates (including 
Huff and Pence) were listed on some of the accounts of the Oxygen-related entities, which shared a 
common address in Louisville, Kentucky. 

       49.    In a May 25, 2010 email, the BDO engagement partner told Zizza that he would 
like to discuss certain issues regarding the Antonucci Complaint.  The BDO engagement partner 
wrote that he wanted to discuss the allegations that “Pence purchased a 25% interest in Bedford 
Consulting from Antonucci for $6.5 million in what the complaint describes as an ‘artifice 
designed to cover up the true source of the $6.5 million.’”  He also wrote:  “The Complaint 
indicates that River Falls is owned by Pence, [Associate-1], and Heineman.  All previous 

                                                 
 
                                               13 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

information disclosed to us by Heineman and Pence indicated that Pence owned 100% of River 
Falls.”  He further noted that the Complaint indicated that PSQ borrowed money from River Falls 
to buy the GEE shares.  The email to Zizza did not address the allegations in the Antonucci 
Complaint denying the existence of the purported CD or indicating related party issues concerning 
the funds received by the “Oxygen-related entities.” 
        
       50.    During his conversation with BDO, Zizza withheld material information that bore 
upon the accuracy of GEE’s previously-filed 10-K and future filings addressing the purported CD.  
Specifically, Zizza failed to disclose to BDO the same material facts identified in paragraph 44 of 
this Order. 
        
       51.    Later throughout 2010, Zizza failed to disclose to BDO facts that he knew or should 
have known, including that companies acquired by GEE, including On-Site, RFFG of Cleveland, 
LLC, and DMCC Staffing, LLC were partially controlled by Huff.  Zizza’s materially false or 
misleading statements and omissions were relevant to BDO’s audit of GEE for 2010 and the 
Company’s preparation of its Form 10-K.   
        
       52.    In December 2010, Zizza signed a representation letter that included similar 
language to the representation letter discussed in paragraph 43 of this Order concerning related 
parties, the purported CD with PAB, and the assignment agreement.  For the same reasons, Zizza’s 
representations in that management representation letter were materially misleading.   
        
       53.    GEE’s Form 10-K filed on December 28, 2010, for its fiscal year ended September 
30, 2010, classified the $2.3 million CD as a cash equivalent as of September 30, 2009, included a 
similar disclosure as the disclosure in the Form 10-K filed in January 2010 and was materially 
misleading for the same reasons:   

               In November 2009, the Company discovered that it did not receive the proceeds 
               from a bank for a $2,300,000 certificate of deposit that was scheduled to mature 
               in October 2009.  Although the Company made a formal inquiry of the bank, it 
               did not receive an adequate explanation for the bank’s non-performance related to 
               the deposit.  In December 2009, the Company entered into an agreement to assign 
               its interests in the certificate of deposit, without recourse, to an unrelated party 
               that has other business interests with the bank, and the Company was reimbursed 
               for the face value of the deposit. 
        
F.     VIOLATIONS 

       54.    Rule 13b2-2 of the Exchange Act prohibits officers and directors from, directly or 
indirectly, making or causing to be made materially false or misleading statements or omissions to 
accountants in connection with an audit or preparation of reports to be filed with the Commission. 
        
       55.    As a result of the conduct described above, Zizza violated Rule 13b2-2 under the 
Exchange Act.  

                                                 
 
                                               14 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

                                              IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.     Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent cease and desist from 
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Exchange Act Rule 13b2-2.   
 
       B.     Respondent shall  within 14  days of the entry of this Order,  pay  a civil  money 
penalty  of  $150,000  to  the  Commission  for  transfer  to  the  general  fund  of  the  United  States 
Treasury in accordance with Exchange Act 21F(g)(3).  If timely payment is not made, additional 
interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717.  Payment must be made in one of the following 
ways:   
 
              (1)     Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                      will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
               
              (2)     Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
               
              (3)     Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
              Enterprise Services Center 
              Accounts Receivable Branch 
              HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
              6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
              Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Zizza as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of 
the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Timothy Casey, New York Regional 
Office, Securities and Exchange Commission, 200 Vesey Street, New York, NY 10281-1022.     
 
                                               V. 
                                                 
       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by 
Respondent, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other 
amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree 
or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by 

                                                 
 
                                               15 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set 
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 

 
 
By the Commission. 
 
                                                       Brent J. Fields 
                                                       Secretary 
 

                                                    
 
                                                 16 
