---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                        Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 79880 / January 26, 2017 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3856 / January 26, 2017 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17816 
 
                                            ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
In the Matter of                            AND CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS 
                                            PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 4C AND 21C OF 
    Anderson Bradshaw PLLC,                 THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 
    Russell Anderson, CPA,                  1934, AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
    Sandra Chen, CPA, and                COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
    William Denney, CPA,                    MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                            REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-
Respondents.                                AND-DESIST ORDER 
 
                                                  
                                             I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Anderson 
Bradshaw PLLC; Russell Anderson, CPA; Sandra Chen, CPA; and William Denney, CPA (the 
                                     1
“Respondents”) pursuant to Sections 4C  and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Exchange Act”), and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) and 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
        2
Practice. 

                                                  
1
 Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the 
       privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is 
       found…(1) not to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others; (2) to be lacking in 
       character or integrity, or to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to 
       have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the 
       securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
2
 Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
       The Commission may censure a person or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
       appearing or practicing before it in any way to any person who is found…to have engaged in 
       unethical or improper professional conduct. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 

                                                 II. 
                                                   
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”), which the Commission has  determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose  of  these  proceedings  and  any  other  proceedings  brought  by  or  on  behalf  of  the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein,  except  as  to  the  Commission’s  jurisdiction  over  them  and  the  subject  matter  of  these 
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondents consent 
to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to 
Sections  4C  and  21C  of  the  Securities  Exchange  Act  of  1934,  and  Rule  102(e)  of  the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-
and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   
        
                                                III. 
        
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offer, the Commission finds that:  
                                                   
       A.      Respondents 
 
                                                                                        3
               1.      Anderson Bradshaw PLLC (“AB”) is a public accounting firm.          AB was 
the independent auditor for Longwei Petroleum Investment Holding Limited (“Longwei” or the 
“Company”) from August 2, 2012 to May 30, 2013.  AB audited Longwei’s financial statements 
for its fiscal year ended June 30, 2012, and later conducted additional inquiries and audit 
procedures, including an investigation of allegations of fraud at Longwei that could have directly 
affected AB’s audit report on Longwei’s financial statements for 2012.    
                
               2.      Russell Anderson, age 53, of West Valley City, Utah, is a certified public 
accountant licensed in Utah and currently a partner at AB.  Before that, Anderson was a partner at 
Child Van Wagoner & Bradshaw PLLC (“CVB”).  Anderson was listed as a Consulting Partner for 
AB’s 2012 audit of Longwei, but did not play an active role in the audit.  On July 8, 2014, the 
Commission filed administrative proceedings against Anderson, CVB, and others in connection 
with the audits of Yuhe International, Inc.  In the Matter of Child, Van Wagoner & Bradshaw, 
                                                                                                                                                             
 
Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
       The Commission may censure a person or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
       appearing or practicing before it…to any person who is found…to have willfully violated, or 
       willfully aided and abetted the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or the 
       rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
3
 On August 2, 2012, AB filed a Form 4 with the PCAOB to succeed to the registration status of Child 
Van Wagoner & Bradshaw PLLC.  CVB was a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB that 
was Longwei’s independent auditor from January 1, 2006 to August 2, 2012.  On July 8, 2014, the 
Commission filed administrative proceedings against CVB and others in connection with the audits of 
Yuhe International, Inc.  In the Matter of Child, Van Wagoner & Bradshaw, PLLC, et al. (Rel. No. 34-
72557).  On February 11, 2015, CVB agreed to the entry of an order, among other things, denying it the 
privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission. (Rel. No. 34-74262).   

                                                  2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 

PLLC, et al. (Rel. No. 34-72557).  On February 11, 2015, Anderson agreed to the entry of an order 
that, among other things, denied him the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant, with the right to apply for reinstatement after a period of three 
years. (Rel. No. 34-74262).   
        
               3.      Sandra Chen, age 48, of West Jordan, Utah, is a certified public accountant 
licensed in Utah and, during the relevant time period, was a partner at AB.  Chen served as the 
engagement partner for AB’s audit of Longwei’s financial statements for 2012.  She also 
participated during January 2013 in AB’s additional inquiries and audit procedures regarding 
allegations of fraud at Longwei.  Before that, Chen was an employee of CVB and served as the 
Audit Manager on CVB’s audit of Longwei’s financial statements for 2011. 
        
               4.      William Denney, age 59, of East Murray, Utah, is a certified public 
accountant licensed in Utah and currently a partner at AB.  Denney served as the engagement 
quality review partner for AB’s audit of Longwei’s financial statements for 2012.  Before that, 
Denney was a partner at CVB.   
                
       B.      Relevant Issuer 
 
               5.      Longwei Petroleum Investment Holding Limited is a Colorado corporation 
headquartered in Shanxi Province, China.  All of its operations are in China.  At all relevant times, 
its common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12(b), 
and was traded on the NYSE MKT stock exchange.  On March 22, 2013, the NYSE MKT delisted 
Longwei’s stock after the Company failed to respond adequately to requests for documents and 
information.  Longwei’s common stock currently trades on the “Grey Market” of the OTC under 
the symbol “LPIH.” 
 
       C.      Background 
 
               6.      Longwei purports to be an energy company engaged in the wholesale 
distribution of finished petroleum products in the People’s Republic of China.  For its fiscal years 
ended June 30, 2011, and June 30, 2012, Longwei claimed to derive 95.1% and 96% of its 
revenues from direct product sales of finished petroleum products.  For its direct product sales, 
Longwei purchased, took physical possession of, and then sold diesel, gasoline, fuel oil, and 
solvents.  For each of those fiscal years, over 95% of the products it purportedly sold consisted of 
diesel and gasoline, while fuel oil and solvents comprised less than 5% of products sold. 
 
               7.      As part of its business, Longwei ostensibly stored finished petroleum 
products at fuel depot storage facilities in three Chinese cities (Taiyuan, Gujiao, and Huajie), and 
recorded those amounts on its financial statements as inventory.  In reports filed with the 
Commission, Longwei claimed that its storage facilities had the following storage capacities: eight 
tanks with a combined storage capacity of 50,000 metric tons at Taiyuan; eight tanks with a 
combined storage capacity of 70,000 metric tons at Gujiao; and twelve tanks with a combined 
                                                  4
storage capacity of 100,000 metric tons at Huajie.    Longwei used a computerized system to 
                                                  
4
 Longwei acquired the Huajie facility in September 2012.  So, it was not reviewed by AB during its audit 
of Longwei’s financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012.  However, as described below, 

                                                 3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 

monitor the inventory at each of its storage facilities.  This system consisted of a float gauge that 
measured the height of the fluid in each tank and a computerized reading of the volume in each 
tank. 
                
               8.      Longwei, however, reported its storage capacities in units of weight (metric 
tons), and not volume (cubic meters), in its reports filed with the Commission.  This created the 
potential for inconsistencies and improper reporting because diesel and gasoline have different 
densities, which means they have different weights per cubic meter.  As a result, the products 
stored by Longwei required different formulas for conversion from cubic meters (the unit by which 
they were measured by Longwei’s inventory system) to metric tons (the units in which Longwei 
reported its inventory).  Respondents never questioned this reporting practice, nor considered its 
implications.  In fact, AB’s workpapers for the 2012 audit show that AB confused volume and 
weight in its own calculations. 
                
       D.      AB and Chen Failed to Conduct, and Denney failed to Review, the 2012 
                                                                            5
               Longwei Audit in Accordance with PCAOB Audit Standards         
 
               9.      Longwei engaged CVB to audit Longwei’s financial statements for the 
fiscal year ended June 30, 2011.  On September 12, 2011, CVB issued an audit report containing 
an unqualified opinion on Longwei’s 2011 financial statements, which Longwei included in a 
Form 10-K that it filed with the Commission on September 13, 2011.   
 
               10.     In July 2012, the PCAOB staff conducted an inspection of CVB.  As part of 
that inspection, on August 2, 2012, the PCAOB staff informed CVB that CVB had failed to 
perform sufficient procedures to test the existence or quantity of Longwei’s inventory during the 
2011 audit because CVB had not tested the accuracy of the Company’s computerized inventory 
system or the contents of its fuel storage tanks.  Chen was the Audit Manager on the 2011 audit, 
and was immediately made aware of the PCAOB staff’s findings.  In a response to the PCAOB, 
Russell Anderson, writing on behalf of CVB, claimed that CVB had conducted a dip test of the 
tanks in previous years to determine what fuel the tanks held.  However, CVB’s work papers 
contained no evidence that those tests had been performed. 
 
               11.     On August 2, 2012, after AB filed a PCAOB Form 4 with the PCAOB to 
succeed to the registration status of CVB, Longwei engaged AB to audit Longwei’s financial 
statements for its fiscal year ended June 30, 2012.  AB hired a Hong Kong-based accounting firm 
(the “Foreign Audit Staff”) to perform the fieldwork for the AB audit.  On August 3, AB held a 
planning meeting with the Foreign Audit Staff, during which Chen identified inventory as a high 
risk area, and instructed the Foreign Audit Staff to (1) use a dipstick to verify the accuracy of the 
readings provided by Longwei’s computerized inventory system; (2) use “water finding paste” to 
ensure that the storage tanks were not contaminated with water; and (3) perform an inventory 
rollover test, which is a reconciliation between prior and current inventory levels using records 
reflecting fuel sales and acquisitions.   

                                                                                                                                                             
Huajie was reviewed by AB as part of the additional audit procedures AB performed in December 2012 
and January 2013.    
5
 All references are to PCAOB auditing standards in effect during AB’s audit of Longwei’s 2012 financial 
statements. 

                                                 4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 

 
              12.     On August 4, 2012, the Foreign Audit Staff viewed and recorded the 
readings of volume for each of the eight tanks at the Taiyuan facility provided by Longwei’s 
computerized inventory system.  Those readings provided a combined inventory for that facility 
of 41,462 cubic meters.  The Foreign Audit Staff attempted to verify the accuracy of those 
readings by observing a Longwei employee use a dipstick to measure the height of the fluid in 
two of the tanks at that facility (Tanks 7 and 8).  The Foreign Audit Staff compared those 
measurements to the measurements of height provided by the float gauges in those tanks.  After 
determining that the measurements of height the Longwei employee obtained with the dipstick 
matched the measurements of height provided by the float gauges in those tanks, the Foreign 
Audit Staff concluded that the computerized readings of volume for all of the tanks at the 
Taiyuan Facility were accurate and reliable.  However, even though Chen had identified 
inventory as a high risk area, and although the PCAOB inspections staff found that in 2011 CVB 
did not sufficiently test the accuracy of Longwei’s computerized inventory system, the Foreign 
Audit Staff did not measure or obtain the tanks’ circumference through other procedures, which 
was necessary to determine whether the system accurately converted the measurements of height 
into volume.  As a result, the Foreign Audit Staff did not gather adequate information to support 
AB’s conclusion that the computerized readings of volume for the tanks at the Taiyuan Facility 
were accurate and reliable.  
        
              13.     Also on August 4, 2012, the Foreign Audit Staff tested samples of fluids 
taken only from Tanks 7 and 8 at the Taiyuan facility.  They did not take samples from any other 
tanks.  Further, they did not sufficiently test for water content.  For example, the Foreign Audit 
Staff did not use water finding paste; instead, they simply observed that the samples had a 
“heavy smell” and “evaporated quickly under the sunlight.”  Based on those observations, the 
Foreign Audit Staff concluded that Tanks 7 and 8 were not filled with water.    However, those 
observations were insufficient to determine what type of fuel was in Tank 7 or 8.  As noted, 
because Longwei reported its fuel storage inventory by weight rather than volume, and because 
each type of fuel had a different density, it was critical for AB to verify what specific liquid was 
in each tank.  Accordingly, on August 6, 2012, the lead auditor for the Foreign Audit Staff 
suggested to Chen that AB retain an “independent inspection company” to confirm the tanks’ 
contents.  Chen neither responded to this request nor instructed the Foreign Audit Staff to 
perform additional procedures in order for AB to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
regarding inventory.   
        
              14.     Also on August 4, 2012, the Foreign Audit Staff viewed and recorded the 
computerized readings of volume for each of the eight tanks at the Gujiao facility.  However, the 
Foreign Audit Staff was not allowed access to the tanks themselves.  Rather, when the Foreign 
Audit Staff arrived at the facility on August 4, 2012, Longwei employees informed the Foreign 
Audit Staff that they could not perform any tests because the tanks at that facility were “under 
maintenance.”  As a result, the Foreign Audit Staff did not test the accuracy of the computerized 
readings – such as by measuring the height of the fluid, the circumference of the tanks, and the 
type of fluid the tanks contained.  Although Chen claims that, on or around August 18, 2012, she 
did test the height and content of two (of the eight) Gujiao tanks, the work papers do not reflect 
any such testing.  Moreover, Chen conceded in testimony that AB never had the actual 
dimensions for the tanks at Gujiao.   

                                                5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 

        
               15.     During its audit of Longwei in 2012, AB performed inventory price testing. 
However, these procedures did not address the concerns about the testing of Longwei’s inventory 
raised by the PCAOB staff after CVB’s 2011 audit of Longwei.  In an email exchange on January 
14, 2013, the lead auditor from the Foreign Audit Staff informed Chen that they had relied entirely 
on documents Longwei had provided, telling her, “there are no supporting documents showing the 
suppliers have delivered the stocks to their customers except for the internal warehouse out stock 
records for every sales transactions[sic].” 
                
               16.    On September 12, 2012, AB issued an audit report containing an 
unqualified opinion on Longwei’s financial statements for 2012.  AB stated that it conducted its 
audit “in accordance with the standards of [PCAOB].  Those standards require that we plan and 
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free 
of material misstatement.”  In its audited financial statements, Longwei reported inventory of 
50,405 metric tons, valued at approximately $53 million, which represented approximately 15% 
of Longwei’s total assets and 25% of its current assets.   
 
       E.      AB Conducts Additional Inquiries and Audit Procedures  
 
               17.    On December 28, 2012, Anderson received an unsolicited email from an 
individual claiming to be a Longwei shareholder.  The email stated that after reviewing Longwei’s 
audited financials, as well as photos and other reference materials, “it seems unrealistic to believe 
that the storage capacity of [Longwei’s] facilities is as described.”  The email continued that, taking 
into account the type of fuel in the tanks, “it appears the [Taiyuan] facility has less than 19,651 MT 
[metric tons] – not the 50,000 MT of capacity described.”  Anderson shared the email with Chen, 
who searched AB’s files for documents listing the dimensions of the tanks at Longwei’s fuel storage 
facilities.  As a result of that search, Chen found an Excel spreadsheet that Longwei had provided to 
CVB in 2007, which listed the dimensions of the tanks at the Taiyuan facility.  The dimensions 
listed on the spreadsheet indicated that the Taiyuan tanks had only 78% to 89% (depending on the 
contents) of the storage capacity that Longwei claimed in its public filings.  Chen was unable to find 
any documents or support for the disclosed dimensions of the storage tanks at the Gujiao facility or 
recently purchased Huajie facility. 
 
               18.    Chen then asked an employee of the Foreign Audit Staff to re-calculate the 
inventory at the Taiyuan facility based on the dimensions found in the Excel spreadsheet.  The 
employee calculated that the inventory was approximately 40% less than the inventory recorded 
when the Foreign Audit Staff performed their fieldwork for the 2012 audit, and which Longwei 
reported in its Form 10-K filed with the Commission on September 13, 2012.  After receiving these 
calculations, Chen sent Longwei’s CFO an email asking him - for the first time - to explain how 
Longwei’s computerized inventory system worked. 
 
               19.    On January 3, 2013, a private research firm issued a public report 
questioning the legitimacy of Longwei’s business and claiming that Longwei must have 
substantially exaggerated its sales and overstated its revenues.  The research firm reported that 
video surveillance of all three Longwei facilities showed very little tanker truck fueling activity, 

                                                 6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 

and photographic evidence that railroad tracks providing access to Longwei’s facilities appeared to 
be unused because they were covered with vegetation. 
        
               20.    As a result of the research report, as well as the questions posed by the 
unsolicited email concerning the stated capacity of Longwei’s fuel storage facilities, AB undertook 
additional inquiries and procedures expressly intended to determine whether AB needed to 
withdraw its audit report on Longwei’s 2012 financial statements.   
        
               21.    On or around January 5, 2013, Chen alerted Longwei’s management that 
she and Anderson planned an immediate visit to Longwei’s facilities in China with Longwei’s 
CFO.  Anderson, Chen, and Longwei’s CFO arrived at Longwei’s Chinese headquarters on 
January 10, 2013.  All three were denied access to Longwei’s accounting records, purportedly 
because Longwei’s CEO was out of town and its controller was unavailable due to a family 
emergency.    
        
               22.    On January 10, 2013, Anderson and Chen made on-site visits to Longwei’s 
facilities in Taiyuan and Gujiao, where they observed and recorded tanker trucks fueling.  
However, Anderson could not reconcile that day’s “scale tickets” – Longwei’s records of trucks 
that fueled at Taiyuan – to his observations.  In his memo, Anderson deemed the records 
“unreliable.”  Further, while at the Taiyuan facility, a purported company representative showed 
Anderson and Chen a video that he claimed Longwei captured and kept for “fire safety 
requirements.”  The video, which appeared to be date-stamped December 9, 2012, purported to 
show greater tanker truck activity at the Taiyuan facility than the video taken by the research firm 
for the same day.  However, the origin and legitimacy of the video was unclear.  Longwei claimed 
it could not access the video itself, which required an outside specialist familiar with the camera 
system.  The company representative told Anderson and Chen that he was not, in fact, a Longwei 
employee, but claimed to have worked in the past for Longwei’s security contractor.     
        
               23.    While at the Taiyuan facility, Anderson observed a physical measurement 
of the circumference of two fuel storage tanks and found that these dimensions were consistent 
with the dimensions that appeared in the 2007 Excel spreadsheet Chen discovered in December 
2012.  Anderson then used these dimensions to calculate the volume of the fluids in all of the 
storage tanks at the Taiyuan Facility.  Anderson compared his calculations to the readings 
provided by Longwei’s computerized inventory system that AB had relied on in its audit, and 
found that the inventory system’s calculations were as much as 2.8 times higher than Anderson’s 
calculations.   
        
               24.    Anderson questioned the COO of the Taiyuan facility about this 
discrepancy and was told that readings provided by Longwei’s computerized inventory system 
were inaccurate during periods of activity and that the best time to accurately measure was early 
morning, before activity started.  The COO then told Anderson and Chen that they could not access 
Longwei’s fuel storage depots, including the Taiyuan facility, for the next two days because of 
purported province-wide inspections prompted by a recent leak at another fuel storage facility.               
        
               25.    Anderson and Chen visited the Huajie facility on January 14, 2013.  
According to Anderson, while travelling to the facility, a company representative informed 

                                                7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 

Anderson and Chen that “not all of the company’s revenue was derived from tankers loading at 
the three facilities.”  Upon arrival, Anderson and Chen discovered the facility gate was locked 
and had to be opened manually.  Once inside, they saw no evidence to indicate the facility was in 
operation.  This lack of apparent activity called into question the accuracy of a Longwei press 
release issued on December 19, 2012, in which Longwei reported sales of 16,290 metric tons for 
the Huajie facility in the two-month period ended November 30, 2012.   
        
              26.     On January 15, 2013, Longwei employees once again denied Anderson 
and Chen access to any of Longwei’s fuel storage depots, claiming that Longwei’s CEO and 
controller needed to be present, but were still unavailable.  Anderson and Chen then returned to 
the U.S. on January 16, 2013, without conducting any additional inquiries or audit procedures. 
           
              27.     On January 18, 2013, Anderson and Chen provided an update to the Chair 
of Longwei's audit committee on the additional inquiries and audit procedures undertaken in 
response to the unsolicited email and the January 3, 2013 research report.  During that 
conversation, Anderson and Chen did not disclose that Longwei’s computerized inventory 
appeared to overstate the actual inventory.   They also failed to disclose that they had been 
denied access to Longwei’s accounting records and to fuel storage depots on several days.  Nor 
did they disclose that they saw evidence that Longwei’s largest fuel storage depot had not been 
in operation.       
        
               28.    AB’s response to the information that Anderson and Chen obtained in 
China was deficient.  While in China, Anderson and Chen became aware of several significant 
red flags that should have led them to conclude that the information contained in Longwei’s 
2012 financial statements might be unreliable.  In particular, they discovered that Longwei’s 
computerized inventory substantially overstated its holdings, that the company refused to provide 
access to facilities and accounting records, and that a key facility appeared dormant.  Despite 
learning this information, AB has not withdrawn its audit opinion on Longwei’s 2012 financial 
statements, and neither Anderson nor Chen ever informed Longwei’s audit committee or its 
board of directors of their concerns or the red flags they noticed while in China.  AB did not 
resign as Longwei’s auditor until May 30, 2013.   
    
       E.     Respondents’ Audit Failures 
 
              29.    Respondents’ conduct, described above, violated several PCAOB auditing 
and other professional standards. 
 
             i.       Failure to Adequately Plan Longwei’s 2012 Audit 
 
              30.     PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 9, Audit Planning, states that auditors 
should properly plan an audit.  AS 9 ¶ 4.  To do so, auditors should evaluate the matters in AS 9 
¶ 7 to determine the nature and extent of the planning activities that are necessary, taking into 
account the size and complexity of the company, the auditor’s previous experience with the 
company, and changes in circumstances that occur during the audit.  AS 9 ¶ 7.  Additionally the 
auditor should determine whether specialized skill or knowledge is needed to perform 

                                               8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

 

appropriate risk assessments, plan or perform audit procedures, or evaluate audit results.  AS 9 ¶ 
16.  
           
               31.    AB and Chen failed to adequately plan the 2012 audit because they failed 
to properly plan audit procedures to address areas of particular risk at Longwei.   For example, 
inventory comprised 15% of Longwei’s total assets, and Chen identified it as a “high risk area” 
for the 2012 audit.  In fact, on August 2, 2012, before Chen held the planning meeting for the 
2012 audit, Chen was put on notice by the PCAOB staff that Longwei’s 2011 audit was deficient 
because, among other things, CVB had failed to perform sufficient procedures to test the 
existence or quantity of Longwei’s inventory during the 2011 audit because CVB did not test the 
accuracy of the Company’s computerized inventory system.  Accordingly, Chen knew that 
verifying the accuracy of Longwei’s computerized inventory system was a critical issue for the 
2012 audit, but still failed to plan adequate procedures for understanding the inventory system, 
inventory observation, and to obtain sufficient audit evidence of Longwei’s inventory.     
                
               32.    AB and Chen failed to adequately plan the audit because Chen failed to 
instruct the Foreign Audit Staff to perform any procedures to determine whether Longwei’s fuel 
storage tanks actually contained the specific petroleum products the Company claimed to have in 
inventory.  Even though Chen was put on notice by the PCAOB staff that Longwei’s 2011 audit 
was deficient because CVB had failed to verify the contents of the fuel storage tanks, Chen 
instructed the Foreign Audit Staff to confirm only that the tanks were not filled or contaminated 
with water. 
                
               33.    AB and Chen also failed to adapt the audit plan to changes in 
circumstances that occurred during the audit.  Specifically, AB and Chen failed to follow up on 
warnings raised by the Foreign Audit Staff during the course of the audit.  As noted above, in an 
August 6, 2012 email to Chen, the Foreign Audit Staff warned Chen of the need to engage an 
independent party to perform testing that would verify the contents of Longwei’s tanks.  In the 
same email, the Foreign Audit Staff indicated to Chen that Longwei’s computer inventory 
readings may be unreliable.  Specifically, the lead auditor for the Foreign Audit Staff stated that 
photos on June 19, 2012 and August 4, 2012 showed that “the height [reading] changed a little 
bit but the volume of reading increased 10 times!”  The lead auditor for the Foreign Audit Staff 
also told Chen that Longwei did not “reasonably explain[]” its use of certain gasoline and fuel.  
In all cases, besides asking for “more input” on the inventory issue and encouraging the Foreign 
Audit Staff to “inquire more” about the gasoline use, AB and Chen did nothing to follow up.              
                
             ii.       Failure to Identify and Assess Risks of Material Misstatement 
                
               34.    PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 12, Identifying and Assessing Risks of 
Material Misstatement, states that the auditor should perform risk assessment procedures that are 
sufficient to provide a reasonable basis for identifying and assessing risks of material 
misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and designing further audit procedures.  AS 12 ¶4.  
The auditor should obtain an understanding of the company and its environment to understand 
the events, conditions, and company activities that might reasonably be expected to have a 
significant effect on the risks of material misstatement.  AS 12 ¶ 7.  The auditor should obtain a 
sufficient understanding of each component of internal control over financial reporting.  AS 12 ¶ 

                                                9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

 

18.  The auditor should obtain an understanding of the information system, including the related 
business processes, relevant to financial reporting.  AS 12 ¶ 28.  A company’s business processes 
are the activities designed to develop, purchase, produce, sell and distribute a company’s 
products or services and record information, including accounting and financial reporting 
information.  AS 12 ¶ 30 (a) and (b).   
        
              35.     Here, AB and Chen did not adequately identify and assess the risks of 
material misstatement of the Company’s inventory, even though fuel inventory was an essential 
asset, and a significant account, for Longwei, and even though Chen had identified inventory as a 
“high risk area.” 
 
              36.    AB and Chen did not obtain adequate knowledge of Longwei’s business, 
including its inventory procedures and internal controls.  They failed to obtain a sufficient 
understanding of Longwei’s computerized inventory system and had no understanding of how its 
readings were calculated or whether they were accurate.  Although Chen did instruct the Foreign 
Audit Staff to attempt to verify the accuracy of the computerized inventory system by 
performing a dipstick test, they performed that test on only two of Longwei’s tanks at a single 
storage facility.  Moreover, the test did not verify the accuracy of the system’s volume 
calculations because it only verified the readings of height, but not circumference, when both 
measurements were necessary to calculate volume. 
 
              37.     Even though AB and Chen failed to obtain an adequate basis for relying 
on the accuracy of the volume measurements produced by Longwei’s computerized inventory 
system, Chen nevertheless instructed the Foreign Audit Staff to rely on the computerized 
inventory system when they performed fieldwork for the 2012 audit.   
               
            iii.       Failure to Properly Supervise the Foreign Audit Staff 
        
              38.     PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 10, Supervision of the Audit Engagement, 
requires supervision of the audit engagement, including supervising the work of engagement 
team members, so that the work is performed as directed and supports the conclusions reached.  
AS 10 ¶ 2.  The engagement partner is responsible for the engagement and its performance.  
Accordingly, the engagement partner is responsible for proper supervision of the work of 
engagement team members and for compliance with PCAOB standards including standards 
regarding using the work of specialists, other auditors, internal auditors, and others who are 
involved in testing controls.  AS 10 ¶ 3.  The engagement partner and, as applicable, other 
engagement team members performing supervisory activities, should review the work of 
engagement team members to evaluate whether the work was performed and documented, the 
objectives of the procedures were achieved, and the results of the work support the conclusions 
reached.  AS 10 ¶ 5(c). 
               
              39.    Chen was the engagement partner for Longwei’s 2012 audit.  AB and 
Chen failed to properly supervise the 2012 audit.  Although the Foreign Audit Staff’s work 
papers showed multiple instances of audit procedures not being followed, Chen accepted the 
work papers and failed to inquire why the audit procedures were not followed.  For example, 
Chen did not document raising any questions into why the Foreign Audit Staff failed to follow 

                                               10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

 

her instructions to use “water finding paste” to determine whether the fluids in Longwei’s fuel 
storage tanks were uncontaminated.  There is also no documentation that Chen ever asked why 
the Foreign Audit Staff performed a dip-stick test on only two of the eight fuel storage tanks at 
the Taiyuan Facility.  Instead, Chen simply accepted the Foreign Audit Staff’s work without 
asking them to perform additional procedures.    
        
            iv.       Failure to Perform an Adequate Observation of Inventories 
        
               40.    AU 331, Inventories, provides that when inventory quantities are 
determined solely by means of a physical count, it is ordinarily necessary for the independent 
auditor to be present at the time of the count.  It is also ordinarily necessary that the auditor use 
suitable observation, tests, and inquiries to satisfy himself that the methods of inventory-taking 
are effective and to determine how much reliance may be placed upon the client’s 
representations about the inventory.  AU 331.09.  If the independent auditor is not present at the 
time of the count or does not use suitable observation, tests, and inquiries to satisfy himself as to 
inventories in the possession of the client, tests of the accounting records alone will not be 
sufficient for him to become satisfied as to quantities; it will always be necessary for the auditor 
to make, or observe, some physical counts of the inventory and apply appropriate tests of 
intervening transactions.  This should be coupled with inspection of the records of any client’s 
counts and procedures relating to the physical inventory on which the balance-sheet inventory is 
based.  AU 331.12.   
                
               41.    As previously discussed, Longwei’s inventory consisted of various types 
of petroleum fluids.  AB and Chen failed adequately to observe, or supervise observation of, 
these inventories during the 2012 audit.  In fact, there is no indication in AB’s work papers that 
the Company ever performed a physical inventory observation of the 14 tanks for which AB failed 
to conduct even a dipstick test.  In addition, no evidence exists that AB obtained, tested, or 
evaluated any physical inventory procedures performed by the Company.  Considering this, 
AB’s procedures for testing the accuracy of Longwei’s inventories in the remaining 14 tanks 
were insufficient - AB relied only on dipstick tests from two tanks and readings from the 
computerized inventory system, the accuracy of which AB did not verify. 
        
               42.    Also, the dipstick and float gauge measurements that the Foreign Audit 
Staff observed, and that AB and Chen relied on, were insufficient to provide assurance that 
Longwei’s storage tanks held the represented quantities of specific petroleum fluids.  AB and 
Chen did not know the dimensions or capacity of the fuel storage tanks at Gujiao, and did not 
consider the dimensions of the fuel storage tanks at Taiyuan in conducting their testing, even 
though such information was in AB’s files.  If AB and Chen had properly considered the Taiyuan 
dimensions during the 2012 audit, they would have realized that this facility had significantly less 
capacity than Longwei claimed.   
                
               43.    Second, because Longwei’s financial statements disclosed fluid 
inventories in figures derived from weight, not volume, it was critical that AB and Chen confirm 
the specific petroleum fluids that were in the tanks.  A cubic meter of diesel fuel weighs more 
than a cubic meter of gasoline.  Accordingly, even if one confirms the volume of a given 
container, that measurement does not provide assurance that inventory representations based on 

                                               11 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

 

the weight of product in that container are accurate.  In order to accurately perform the 
conversion from volume to weight, one must know what the product is.  Thus, AB and Chen 
failed to perform an adequate observation of inventories to obtain reasonable assurance that the 
products in the tanks were as Longwei claimed.     
                
               44.    Contrary to AU 331, AB and Chen placed undue reliance on Longwei’s 
accounting systems over inventory.  AB and Chen did not understand how Longwei’s inventory 
measurement systems worked, yet the audit work papers reflect that AB and Chen relied heavily 
on Longwei’s representations of inventory in its accounting records.  AB and Chen directed the 
Foreign Audit Staff to undertake inventory price testing as an alternative procedure.  However, 
this procedure failed to provide sufficient evidence under the circumstances because the testing 
depended on documents that Longwei provided and that AB failed to evaluate for sufficiency 
                                              6
and appropriateness for purposes of the audit.  
        
             v.       Failure to Obtain Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence 
        
               45.    PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 15, Audit Evidence, provides that the 
objective of the auditor is to plan and perform the audit to obtain appropriate audit evidence that is 
sufficient to support the opinion expressed in the auditor’s report.  AS 15 ¶ 3.  Under this standard, 
sufficiency is the measure of the quantity of audit evidence, and the quantity of evidence needed is 
affected by the risk of material misstatement (in the audit of financial statements) or the risk 
associated with the control (in the audit of internal control over financial reporting) and the quality 
of the audit evidence obtained.  AS 15 ¶ 5.  As the risk increases, the amount of evidence that the 
auditor should obtain also increases.  Id.  Appropriateness is the measure of the quality of audit 
evidence.  To be appropriate, audit evidence must be both relevant and reliable in providing 
support for conclusions on which the auditor’s opinion is based.  AS 15 ¶ 6. 
                
               46.    AB and Chen failed to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence.  As an 
initial matter, Chen failed to obtain sufficient evidence of the capacities of Longwei’s fuel 
storage depots because she did not consider the dimensions of the fuel storage tanks at the 
Taiyuan Facility that were in AB’s files, or request or receive the dimensions of the fuel storage 
tanks at the Gujiao Facility.  Chen also failed to obtain sufficient evidence of the quantity of 
inventory at Longwei’s depots because she permitted the Foreign Audit Staff to rely on the 
Company’s computerized inventory system without performing any procedures that could 
provide reasonable assurance that the readings of volume that system provided were accurate.  
Further, Chen failed to obtain sufficient evidence of the existence of inventory because she 
permitted the Foreign Audit Staff to test two of Longwei’s fuel storage tanks for water 
contamination by merely sniffing samples of their contents and watching those samples 
evaporate in the sunlight, and she failed to instruct the Foreign Audit Staff to perform any 
procedures that could have provided reasonable assurance that the fuel storage tanks actually 
contained the specific petroleum products Longwei claimed to have in inventory.     
                

                                                 
6
 See AS 15 ¶ 10.  Further, pursuant to AS 15 ¶ 8, in general, evidence obtained from a knowledgeable 
source that is independent of the company is more reliable than evidence obtained only from internal 
company sources.  

                                                12 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

 

              47.    Performing a “smell test” and watching liquid samples from two of 
Longwei’s tanks was not appropriate audit evidence.  Here, a member of the Foreign Audit Staff 
suggested to Chen that they use the enhanced procedure of obtaining an independent inspection 
company, but Chen did not used that procedure or even follow up.  Chen’s failure was particular 
unreasonable in light of the previous warning she had received regarding the risk associated with 
Longwei’s inventory.  For example, when describing CVB’s fiscal 2011 audit deficiencies in a 
Small Firm Inspection Comment Form dated August 2, 2012, the PCAOB staff stated, in part, 
“Further, the Firm failed to obtain audit evidence to verify that the liquid within each tank was 
the fuel type asserted by the Issuer.”   
                       
            vi.       Failure to Conduct an Adequate Engagement Quality Review 
        
              48.     PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 7, Engagement Quality Review, provides 
that the objective of the engagement quality reviewer is to perform an evaluation of the 
significant judgments made by the engagement team and the related conclusions reached in 
forming the overall conclusion on the engagement and in preparing the engagement report.  AS 7 
¶ 2.  To evaluate such judgments and conclusions, the engagement quality reviewer should, to 
the extent necessary to satisfy the requirements, hold discussions with the engagement partner 
and other members of the engagement team and review documentation.  AS 7 ¶ 9. 
               
              49.     Denney was the engagement quality reviewer for the Longwei 
engagement and failed to fulfill the requirements of AS 7.  The work papers for the 2012 audit 
showed that Chen failed to properly supervise the Foreign Audit Staff, that the procedures the 
Foreign Audit Staff performed to audit Longwei’s inventory were inadequate, and that AB did 
not address the concerns the PCAOB staff raised with respect to Longwei’s 2011 audit, i.e., 
CVB’s failure to test the accuracy of the computerized inventory system or the contents of the 
fuel storage tanks.  Denney reviewed these inventory work papers in connection with performing 
his duties as the engagement quality review partner on the 2012 audit, and he was aware of the 
PCAOB staff’s concerns when he did so.  However, despite the deficiencies in the work papers, 
Denney completed his review and provided concurring approval of issuance without raising any 
concerns or asking the engagement team any questions.   
               
              50.     Specifically, Denny failed to follow-up on the findings in the PCAOB 
inspection report to see how the deficiencies of the 2011 audit were addressed in the 2012 audit.  
Denny also failed to recognize that all planned audit procedures were not conducted, including a 
proper analysis of how the audit team conducted its testing of Longwei’s tank capacities – which 
he knew to be a significant issue.  Further, Denny failed to realize that the audit procedures 
performed failed to verify the type of liquid in the tanks.              
                                                 
           vii.       Failure to Properly Consider Information Learned After Issuance of Audit 
                      Report 
               
              51.     AU 561, Subsequent Discovery of Facts Existing at the Date of the 
Auditor’s Report, provides that when an auditor becomes aware of information that relates to 
financial statements previously reported on by him, but which was not known to him at the date of 
his report, and which is of such a nature and from such a source that he would have investigated it 

                                               13 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

 

had it come to his attention during the course of the audit, he should, as soon as practicable, 
undertake to determine whether the information is reliable and whether the facts existed at the date 
of his report.  In connection with this obligation, the auditor should discuss the matter with his 
client at whatever management levels he deems appropriate, including the board of directors, and 
request cooperation in whatever investigation may be necessary.  AU 561.04.  If the information is 
found to be reliable and would have affected his report, he is required to take certain actions, 
including actions to prevent future reliance on his report. 
               
              52.     AB, Chen, and Anderson failed to comply with AU 561.  In December 
2012, about three months after AB issued an audit report expressing an unqualified opinion on 
Longwei’s financial statements, AB, Chen, and Anderson became aware of information 
indicating that Longwei might have overstated its storage capacity, inventory, and revenues.  
First, they received an email from a third-party questioning the manner in which Longwei 
reported its storage capacity as well as the figures themselves.  While investigating these claims, 
Chen found an Excel spreadsheet in AB’s files, originally obtained by CVB during its 2007 audit 
of the Company, which showed the dimensions of the tanks at the Taiyuan facility.  Those 
dimensions indicated that the tanks had only 78% to 89% of the capacity that Longwei 
represented them to have.  Chen then asked the Foreign Audit Staff to use the dimensions to re-
calculate the inventory at the Taiyuan facility as of August 4, 2012, the day the Foreign Audit 
Staff performed the inventory fieldwork for the 2012 audit.  The Foreign Audit Staff’s new 
calculations showed that inventory was over 40% less than what the Foreign Audit Staff 
reviewed and recorded during their fieldwork, and which Longwei subsequently reported in its 
public filings.   
               
              53.     Later, in January 2013, Chen and Anderson traveled to China to perform 
additional procedures to determine whether allegations of fraud made against Longwei have 
merit, whether Longwei had overstated the capacity of its fuel storage tanks, and whether AB 
needed to withdraw its audit opinion on Longwei’s 2012 financial statements.  In the course of 
performing these procedures, Anderson observed a physical measurement of the circumference 
of two fuel storage tanks at the Taiyuan Facility, and found that those dimensions were 
consistent with the dimensions that appeared in the Excel spreadsheet Chen had found in AB’s 
files (and were different from those reported by the Company).  Anderson then used those 
dimensions to perform his own calculations of the inventory at the Taiyuan Facility, and 
discovered that Longwei’s computerized system had overstated the contents of the tanks at the 
Taiyuan Facility by as much as 280%.   
               
              54.    Anderson and Chen’s additional audit procedures raised serious questions 
about the accuracy of Longwei’s accounting records – records that Longwei refused to provide – 
and the overall legitimacy of Longwei’s business, which had come under detailed attack by 
investors and a private research firm.  Longwei’s refusal to allow Anderson and Chen to visit 
certain Longwei facilities, and the discovery that a key facility was apparently not in use, should 
have led AB, Anderson, and Chen to advise Company management and to disclose publicly that 
Longwei’s 2012 financial statements should no longer be relied upon. See AU 561.06.  They 
failed to do so, and therefore did not comply with AU 561.      
        

                                               14 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

 

           viii.       Failure to exercise due professional care 
                
               55.    PCAOB auditing standards require auditors to exercise due professional 
care in the planning and performance of an audit and the preparation of the audit report.  Due 
professional care requires that the auditor exercise professional skepticism: an attitude that 
includes a questioning mind and a critical assessment of audit evidence.  The auditor should not 
be satisfied with less than persuasive evidence because of a belief that management is honest.  
AU 230.01, .07, and .09.  Moreover, gathering and objectively evaluating audit evidence requires 
the auditor to consider the competency and sufficiency of the evidence.  Because evidence is 
gathered and evaluated throughout the audit, professional skepticism should be exercised 
throughout the audit process.  AU 230.08.  
                
               56.    AB, Chen, and Denney failed to exercise due professional care in the 2012 
audit of Longwei.  AB and Chen failed properly to plan, supervise, and perform the audit to 
provide reasonable assurance of detecting material errors in the financial statements, and failed 
to exercise due professional care to obtain reasonable assurance that the financial statements 
were not materially misstated.  Denney, as the engagement quality review partner, also failed to 
exercise due professional care.  Denney had responsibility for evaluating the significant 
judgments made by the engagement team and the related conclusions reached for the 2012 audit, 
so he knew (or reasonably should have known) that AB and Chen had not adequately planned, 
conducted, or supervised the audit.  
 
               57.    AB, Chen, and Anderson also failed to exercise due professional care after 
conducting additional inquiries and audit procedures in 2013.  After learning information 
indicating that Longwei had likely overstated its storage capacity and inventory, and may have 
overstated its revenues, AB, Chen, and Anderson failed to investigate further or advise Longwei 
to disclose publicly that its 2012 financial statements should no longer be relied upon, and as a 
result, did not comply with AU 230. 
 
       F.      Violations 
 
               58.    Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X mandates that an accountant’s report 
“state whether the audit was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards…”  
“[R]eferences in Commission rules and staff guidance and in the federal securities laws to GAAS 
or to specific standards under GAAS, as they relate to issuers, should be understood to mean the 
standards of the PCAOB plus any applicable rules of the Commission.”  See Interpretation: 
Commission Guidance Regarding the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s Auditing 
and Related Professional Practice Standard No. 1, SEC Rel. No. 34-49708 (May 14, 2004).  
“Thus, an auditor violates Regulation S-X Rule 2-02(b)(1) if it issues a report stating that it had 
conducted its audit in accordance with PCAOB Standards when it had not.”  In re Andrew Sims, 
CPA, Rel. No. 34-59584, AAER Rel. No. 2950 (Mar. 17, 2009).  As a result of the conduct 
described above, AB willfully violated, and Chen and Denney willfully aided and abetted and 
caused violations of, Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X. 
 
               59.    As a result of the conduct described above, AB, Anderson, Chen, and 
Denney engaged in improper professional conduct as defined in Section 4C(b)(2) of the Exchange 

                                               15 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

 

Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice in that their conduct 
constituted negligent conduct, consisting of single instances of highly unreasonable conduct by 
AB, Anderson, Chen, and Denney, and repeated instances of unreasonable conduct by AB and 
Chen, each resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of 
competence to practice before the Commission. 
 
               60.    As a result of the conduct described above, AB willfully violated, and Chen 
and Denney willfully aided and abetted violations of certain provisions of the federal securities 
laws and the rules and regulations thereunder, which constitutes conduct subject to Section 
4C(a)(3) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  
 
       G.      Findings 
 
       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that: 
 
       a.      AB, Anderson, Chen, and Denney engaged in improper professional conduct 
pursuant to Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice; and 
            
       b.      AB willfully violated Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X; and  
        
       c.      Chen and Denney willfully aided and abetted and caused AB’s violation of Rule 
2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X. 
 
                                               IV. 
        
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in the Respondents’ Offer. 
        
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
        
       A.     AB, Chen, and Denney shall cease and desist from committing or causing any 
violations and any future violations of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X. 
 
       B.     Respondents are denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as accountants. 
 
       C.     After four years from the date of this order, AB may request that the Commission 
consider its reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) 
to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
        
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
               of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission. 
               Such an application must satisfy the Commission that AB’s work in its practice 
               before the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee 

                                               16 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

 

               of the public company for which it works or in some other acceptable manner, as 
               long as it practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
                
               2.      an independent accountant.    
                
               Such an application must satisfy the Commission that: 
        
                       (a)    AB is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight 
                       Board (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and 
                       such registration continues to be effective.  However, if registration with the 
                       Board is dependent upon reinstatement by the Commission, the 
                       Commission will consider the application on its other merits; 
 
                       (b)     AB has hired an independent CPA consultant (“consultant”), who is 
                       not unacceptable to  the staff of the Commission and is affiliated with a 
                       public accounting firm registered with the Board, that has conducted a 
                       review of AB’s quality control system and submitted to the staff of the 
                       Commission a report that describes the review conducted and procedures 
                       performed, and represents that the review did not identify any criticisms of 
                       or potential defects in the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
                       that any of AB’s employees will not receive appropriate supervision. AB 
                       agrees to require the consultant, if and when retained, to enter into an 
                       agreement that provides that for the period of review and for a period of two 
                       years from completion of the review, the consultant shall not enter into any 
                       employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional 
                       relationship with AB, or any of its present or former affiliates, directors, 
                       officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity. The agreement will 
                       also provide that the consultant will require that any firm with which he/she 
                       is affiliated or of which he/she is a member, and any person engaged to 
                       assist the consultant in performance of his/her duties under this Offer shall 
                       not, without prior written consent of the staff, enter into any employment, 
                       consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with 
                       AB, or any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, 
                       or agents acting in their capacity as such for the period of the review and for 
                       a period of two years after the review; 
 
                       (c)    AB has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has 
                       complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the 
                       Board (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                       (d)    AB acknowledges its responsibility, as long as it appears or 
                       practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply 
                       with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not 
                       limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring 
                       partner reviews and quality control standards. 
        

                                                17 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

 

       D.     The Commission will consider an application by AB to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that its CPA license is current and it has resolved all 
other disciplinary issues with the applicable boards of accountancy. However, if CPA licensure is 
dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an application on 
its own merits. The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters 
referenced above, any other matters relating to AB’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or 
qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
        
       E.     After two years from February 11, 2018 (the first date that the Commission may 
consider an application by Anderson for reinstatement to resume appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant under the Order issued in In the Matter of Child, Van Wagoner & 
Bradshaw, PLLC, et al. (Rel. No. 34-74262)), Anderson may request that the Commission 
consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) 
to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
        
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
               of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  
               Such an application must satisfy the Commission that Anderson’s work in his 
               practice before the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit 
               committee of the public company for which he works or in some other acceptable 
               manner, as long as he practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
            
               2.     an independent accountant.   
                
               Such an application must satisfy the Commission that: 
        
                      (a)     Anderson, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, 
                      is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board 
                      (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such 
                      registration continues to be effective; 
                       
                      (b)    Anderson, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
                      associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not 
                      identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the 
                      firm’s quality control system that would indicate that Anderson will not 
                      receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)     Anderson has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
                      has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the 
                      Board (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      (d)    Anderson acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Anderson 
                      appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, 
                      to comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, 
                      including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, 
                      inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards. 

                                                18 
---------------------Page 19---------------------

 

        
       F.     The Commission will consider an application by Anderson to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Anderson’s 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 
        
       G.     After four years from the date of this order, Chen may request that the Commission 
consider her reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) 
to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
        
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
               of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  
               Such an application must satisfy the Commission that Chen’s work in her practice 
               before the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee 
               of the public company for which she works or in some other acceptable manner, as 
               long as she practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
            
               2.     an independent accountant.   
                
               Such an application must satisfy the Commission that: 
        
                        (a)   Chen, or the public accounting firm with which she is associated, is 
                        registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board 
                        (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such 
                        registration continues to be effective; 
                               
                        (b)   Chen, or the registered public accounting firm with which she is 
                        associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not 
                        identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the 
                        firm’s quality control system that would indicate that the respondent will 
                        not receive appropriate supervision; 
        
                        (c)   Chen has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has 
                        complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the 
                        Board (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
        
                        (d)   Chen acknowledges her responsibility, as long as Chen appears or 
                        practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply 
                        with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not 
                        limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring 
                        partner reviews and quality control standards. 
        

                                                19 
---------------------Page 20---------------------

 

       H.     The Commission will consider an application by Chen to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that her state CPA license is current and she has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Chen’s character, 
integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
        
       I.      After one year from the date of this order, Denney may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief 
Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
        
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
               of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  
               Such an application must satisfy the Commission that Denney’s work in his 
               practice before the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit 
               committee of the public company for which he works or in some other acceptable 
               manner, as long as he practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
            
               2.     an independent accountant.   
                
               Such an application must satisfy the Commission that: 
        
                      (a)     Denney, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, 
                      is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board 
                      (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such 
                      registration continues to be effective; 
                               
                      (b)    Denney, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
                      associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not 
                      identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the 
                      firm’s quality control system that would indicate that the respondent will 
                      not receive appropriate supervision; 
                      (c)     Denney has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has 
                      complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the 
                      Board (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      (d)    Denney acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Denney appears 
                      or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
                      comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, 
                      but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, 
                      concurring partner reviews and quality control standards. 
        
       J.      The Commission will consider an application by Denney to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 

                                               20 
---------------------Page 21---------------------

 

consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Denney’s character, 
integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
        
       K.     Each of Chen and Denney shall, within 14 days of the entry of this Order, pay a 
civil money penalty in the amount of $5,000.00 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for 
transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 
21F(g)(3). If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 
§3717.   
        
Payment must be made in one of the following ways:   
 
               (1)    Chen and Denney may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, 
                      which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon 
                      request;  
                
               (2)    Chen and Denney may make direct payment from a bank account via 
                      Pay.gov through the SEC website at 
                      http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
                
               (3)    Chen and Denney may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or 
                      United States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and 
                      Exchange Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
               Enterprise Services Center 
               Accounts Receivable Branch 
               HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
               6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
               Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Chen and Denney as Respondents in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a 
copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to David Peavler, Division of 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 801 Cherry St., Suite 1900, Fort Worth, TX 
76102. 
 
       L.     Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be 
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To 
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that in any Related Investor 
Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or reduction of 
any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondents’ payment of a civil 
penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset").  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a 
Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that they shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order 
granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of 
the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be 
deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil 

                                               21 
---------------------Page 22---------------------

 

penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" 
means a private damages action brought against Respondents by or on behalf of one or more 
investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the 
Commission in this proceeding. 
                                                   
                                                V. 
 
       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by 
Respondents, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other 
amounts due by Respondents under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree 
or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by 
Respondents of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set 
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 
        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
                                                             Brent J. Fields 
                                                             Secretary 
 

                                                22 
