---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                      UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                                      Before the 
                            SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 79903 / January 31, 2017 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3857 / January 31, 2017 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-17633 
 
 
                                                            
 
                                                           ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND 
                                                           IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
In the Matter of      
                                                           AND A CEASE          - AND  - DESIST ORDER 
                                                           PURSUANT TO            SECTIONS 4C AND 
                                                           21C OF THE SECURITIES 
         DAVID A. ARONSON, CPA                 ,           EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND RULE 
                                                           102(e) OF THE        COMMISSION’S 
 
                                                                                

Respondent.      
 
 
 
                                                            I. 
 
         On October 19, 2016, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) instituted 
                                                                                                  1
public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings pursuant to Sections 4C                      and 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s 
                     2
Rules of Practice.     

                                                   
1
         Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
                  The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the 
                  privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . 
                  (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character 
                  or integrity, or to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have 
                  willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the securities 
                  laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
2
         Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent  part, that: 
 
                  The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
                  practicing before it . . . to any person who is found…to have willfully violated, or willfully aided 
                  and abetted the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules and 
                  regulations thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              II. 
 
       In connection with these proceedings, Respondent, David A. Aronson, has submitted an 
Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purposes of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Making Findings and Imposing 
Remedial Sanctions and a Cease and Desist Order Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
                                              III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
   A.  RESPONDENT 

       David A. Aronson, CPA, age 56, of North Miami, Florida, is a certified public accountant 
licensed in the state of Florida.  Aronson functioned as an accountant to Company A and Company 
B, from at least October 2, 2015 to approximately February 2016.  From March 2005 through 
October 2, 2015, Aronson was the sole proprietor of a registered public accounting firm and was 
engaged as Company A’s auditor from 2013 through July 2015, and as Company B’s auditor from 
2011 through June 2015.  Aronson consented to a PCAOB order dated October 2, 2015 pursuant to 
which he was barred from being an associated person of a registered public accounting firm.  

   B.  FACTS  

       1.  ARONSON’S UNLAWFUL ASSOCIATION                

              a.  Section 105(c)(7)(B) of Sarbanes-Oxley states that it is “unlawful for any 
                  person that is ... barred from being associated with a registered public 
                  accounting firm [...] willfully to become or remain associated with any issuer 
                  […] in an accountancy or financial management capacity [...] without the 
                  consent of the [PCAOB] or the Commission.”   

              b.  On October 2, 2015, the PCAOB filed a settled action against Aronson and his 
                  firm, David A. Aronson, CPA, for multiple deficiencies in audit work 
                  performed between 2011 and 2015 on several public company engagements, 
                  including Company B (the “PCAOB Order”).  The PCAOB Order, which was 
                  and is available on its website, revoked the registration of his accounting firm 
                  and barred Aronson from being an associated person of a registered public 
                  accounting firm.   

              c.  Company A is a Delaware corporation and at all relevant times its common 
                  stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the 
                  Exchange Act. 

                                               2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

               d.  Company B is a Nevada corporation and at all relevant times its common stock 
                  was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange 
                  Act. 

               e.  Aronson continued to perform accountancy or financial management services 
                  after the PCAOB Order for Company A until February 2016, including, but not 
                  limited to, preparing Company A’s financial statements, and the notes to the 
                  financial statements, and preparation of the company’s Management Discussion 
                  & Analysis section for its Form 10-Q for the period ended November 30, 2015. 

               f.  Additionally, after the PCAOB Order was issued, Aronson continued to 
                  perform accountancy or financial management services for Company B until 
                  February 2016, including, but not limited to, preparing Company B’s financial 
                  statements and the notes to the financial statements for its Form 10-Q for the 
                  period ended September 30, 2015 and preparation of the financial statements for 
                                                                                     3
                  Company B’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2015.  

               g.  Aronson received payment for accountancy or financial management work he 
                  performed despite having been barred by the PCAOB. 
                    
               h.  Aronson never requested or received consent from the PCAOB or the 
                  Commission to remain associated with Company A or Company B in this 
                  accountancy or financial management capacity.   

   C.  VIOLATION 

       As a result of the conduct described above, Aronson willfully violated Section 105(c)(7)(B) 
of Sarbanes-Oxley, which prohibits a person barred from associating with a registered public 
accounting firm from willfully becoming or remaining associated with an issuer in an accountancy 
or financial management capacity without consent of the PCAOB or the Commission. 
 
                                               IV. 
 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Aronson’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.     Aronson shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Section 105(c)(7)(B) of Sarbanes-Oxley. 
         
       B.     Aronson is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission 
as an accountant. 
 

                                                 
3
 Company B terminated Aronson as its accountant on February 10, 2016 prior to the filing of its 2015 Form 10-K. 

                                                3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       C.     Aronson shall, within 30 days of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement of 
$2,750 and prejudgment interest of $20.81 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer 
to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to  Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  If 
timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600. 
        
       D.     Aronson shall, within 30 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money penalty 
in the amount of $15,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general 
fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).   If timely payment 
is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717.  

Payment must be made in one of the following ways:   
                
           (1) Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will 
               provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
                
           (2) Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through the 
               SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
 
           (3) Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States 
               postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and 
               hand-delivered or mailed to:  
            
           Enterprise Services Center 
           Accounts Receivable Branch 
           HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
           6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
           Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
                
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Aronson as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of 
the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Russell Koonin, Division of 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 801 Brickell Avenue, Suite 1800, Miami, FL 
33131.   
 
       E.     Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be 
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To 
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor 
Action, he shall not argue that he is entitled to, nor shall he benefit by, offset or reduction of any 
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil 
penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset").  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a 
Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that he shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting 
the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the 
Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be deemed 
an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty 
imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" means a 
private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based 

                                                4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this 
proceeding. 
 
                                                 V. 
 
       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by 
Respondent, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other 
amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree 
or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by 
Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set 
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 

 
    

       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                      Brent J. Fields 
                                                      Secretary 
 

                                                 5 
 
