---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                        Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 78897 / September 21, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3805 / September 21, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17562 
 
                                               ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE  -AND-
In the Matter of                               DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
                                               SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
      ROBERT A. WAEGELEIN ,                    EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 , MAKING 
      CPA                                      FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE -
                                               AND-DESIST ORDER  
Respondent.  
 
                                                 
 
                                            I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Robert A. Waegelein (“Respondent”). 
 
                                            II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer of 
Settlement (an “Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of 
these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which 
the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the 
Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, 
and, except as provided herein in Section V, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order 
Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                 III. 
 
                                                                                        1
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:    
 
A.     SUMMARY 
 
       This matter arises from a close personal relationship between Respondent, the former chief 
financial officer of a New York-based public issuer (“Issuer”), and a former partner of the public 
accounting firm retained to provide an independent audit of the Issuer’s financial statements 
(respectively, the “Audit Partner” and the “Audit Firm”).  Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 
13a-1 thereunder require public companies like the Issuer to file annual reports with the Commission 
that have been audited by an independent accountant.  The close personal relationship between 
Respondent and the Audit Partner caused the Audit Firm to lack independence during the 2012, 2013, 
and 2014 audit and professional engagement periods.  Nonetheless, Respondent continued to certify 
Issuer’s annual reports and allowed them to be publicly filed.  By so doing, Respondent caused the 
Issuer to violate Section 13(a) and Rule 13a-1 thereunder. 
 
B.     RESPONDENT 
 
       1.      Respondent, age 55, is an accountant and CPA licensed in New York since 1987.  
Respondent served as the Issuer’s chief financial officer for over two decades, until he retired in 2015.  
Prior to working for the Issuer, Respondent was employed as an accountant at an auditing firm.   
 
C.     RELEVANT ISSUER AND INDIVIDUAL 
 
       2.      During the relevant period, the Issuer’s securities were registered under Section 12(b) 
of the Exchange Act and were traded on the New York Stock Exchange.  The Issuer filed annual 
reports on Form 10-K with the Commission.   
 
       3.      Audit Firm is a professional services firm headquartered in New York, New York.  
The Audit Firm provides auditing, consulting, and tax services to various entities, including companies 
with securities registered with the Commission and traded in U.S. markets.  The Audit Firm served as 
the Issuer’s auditor from 1995 to August 2015.   
 
       4.      Audit Partner, age 56, is an accountant and CPA licensed since September 1994.  The 
Audit Partner served as the Audit Firm’s coordinating partner on the Issuer’s audit team from May 
2010 to March 2015.   
 

                                                 
1
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other 
       person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  

                                                    
                                                  2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

D.     FACTS 
 
                  Background of the Audit Firm’s Relationship with the Issuer 
 
       5.      The Audit Firm served as the Issuer’s auditor from 1995 until August 2015, when the 
Issuer terminated the Audit Firm.  Between 1995 and 2010, the Issuer, including Respondent, 
expressed dissatisfaction with certain aspects of the Audit Firm’s performance.  As a result, in 2010, 
the Issuer informed the Audit Firm that it was considering changing audit firms.   
 
       6.      In response, the Audit Firm presented the Issuer with a replacement audit team led by 
the Audit Partner, who would serve as coordinating partner.  “Coordinating partner” was the term 
used by the Audit Firm to describe the lead partner on this audit engagement.  The Issuer’s audit 
committee decided to continue to retain the Audit Firm as its auditor.   
 
       7.      Based on internal discussions at the Audit Firm, the Audit Partner understood that the 
Issuer was a “troubled account” and that his responsibilities as coordinating partner would include 
“developing” and “mending” the Audit Firm’s relationship with the Issuer.  The Audit Partner, along 
with several other engagement partners assigned to the Issuer’s audit, assumed their roles on the 
Issuer’s engagement team in or around May 2010.  Respondent, as the chief financial officer (“CFO”) 
of the Issuer, had regular communications with the Audit Firm engagement team about significant 
accounting issues and other issues relevant to the Issuer’s audit.  
 
         The Audit Partner’s Relationship with Respondent and Respondent’s Family 
 
       8.      Soon after the Audit Partner joined the Issuer’s engagement team, he began 
entertaining Respondent.  By 2012, the Audit Partner and the Respondent had developed a close 
personal relationship inappropriate for an independent auditor and a CFO of a public issuer.  This 
close personal relationship continued through the 2012, 2013, and 2014 audit and professional 
engagement periods. 
 
       9.      During this period, the Audit Partner spent extensive leisure time, including frequent 
out-of-town and overnight trips, with Respondent and his family.  In all, the Audit Partner and 
Respondent took at least seven out-of-town trips together during the relevant period, all of which were 
social in nature and did not have a valid business purpose.  In addition to these trips, the Audit Partner 
and Respondent frequently attended sporting events and socialized near the Issuer’s headquarters in 
the greater New York City area.  The Audit Partner also gifted tickets to sporting events and other 
things of value to Respondent.   
 
       10.     The Audit Partner, sometimes accompanied by his wife, stayed overnight as a guest at 
Respondent’s primary residence in New York and his vacation home in South Carolina on several 
occasions during the relevant period.  Likewise, Respondent stayed overnight at the Audit Partner’s 
apartment in Chicago, Illinois, and on at least one other occasion, Respondent and his son stayed 
overnight in a guest apartment in the Audit Partner’s apartment building.   
 
       11.     These social events, gifts, out-of-town trips, and overnight visits took place during 
each of the 2012, 2013, and 2014 audit and professional engagement periods. 
                                                    
                                                  3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
       12.     For example, in January 2012, the Audit Partner gifted tickets to two successive regular 
season professional football games to Respondent for Respondent and his family to attend.  Neither 
the Audit Partner nor any other the Audit Firm employee attended these games with Respondent and 
his family.   
 
       13.     The following week, the Audit Partner and his wife took a trip to Green Bay, 
Wisconsin with Respondent and Respondent’s son to attend a professional football playoff game.  The 
Audit Partner purchased the tickets for the group, and they stayed overnight at the same hotel near 
Green Bay.   
 
       14.     Two months later, in March 2012, the Audit Partner, who was in South Carolina for a 
separate golf outing, visited Respondent at Respondent’s brother-in-law’s vacation home in Hilton 
Head.  The Audit Partner stayed overnight in that vacation home, where Respondent was also staying. 
 
       15.     In October 2012, Respondent stayed overnight at the Audit Partner’s apartment while 
on a business trip to Chicago.  The Audit Partner and Respondent then planned a joint overnight trip 
to Nashville, Tennessee the following month to, among other things, play golf and attend a 
professional football game.  While Respondent ultimately cancelled the trip, the Audit Partner and his 
wife travelled to Nashville and attended the football game with the Audit Partner’s brother and 
Respondent’s son, both of whom lived in Nashville.  
 
       16.     In April 2013, the Audit Partner, Respondent, and members of their respective 
families again traveled to Nashville to celebrate the Audit Partner’s birthday and attend a professional 
hockey game together.  Upon learning that the Respondent and his son were attending a golf 
tournament in Augusta, Georgia later that same month, the Audit Partner and his wife traveled to 
Augusta, Georgia to attend the Masters golf tournament.  Another Audit Firm partner also attended 
this trip.  The Audit Partner and his wife, the other Audit Firm partner, Respondent, and Respondent’s 
son stayed in the same hotel during this trip. 
 
       17.     In October 2013, Respondent and his son traveled to Chicago for the purpose of 
visiting the Audit Partner and his wife, and attending a professional football game and a golf outing 
with them.  Respondent and his son stayed overnight in the guest apartment in the Audit Partner’s 
building during this trip.   
 
       18.     In April 2014, the Audit Partner and his wife traveled to South Carolina for the 
purpose of spending leisure time and attending a golf tournament with Respondent and his family 
over Easter weekend, staying three nights as guests at Respondent’s vacation home.  After the trip, the 
Audit Partner thanked Respondent and his family for “treating us to such a wonderful time”; 
Respondent responded, “I can see many more of these ahead in the coming years . . . we appreciate 
how generous you are with us as well.” 
 
       19.     In December 2014, the Audit Partner, Respondent, and their respective wives flew to 
Nashville to attend a professional hockey game with Respondent’s son, among others.  In an email to 
Respondent and members of Respondent’s family after the trip, the Audit Partner described the trip as 
a “Great 24 Hour Extravaganza,” writing “We had a blast (as usual) being with all of you.”   
                                                    
                                                  4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 
       20.     In or around February 2015, the Audit Partner began planning a second overnight trip 
to the Masters golf tournament in April 2015 with Respondent, Respondent’s son, and another Audit 
Firm partner, among others.  The Audit Partner planned to treat the trip in part as a retirement party 
for Respondent.  Respondent and the other Audit Firm partner did not attend this trip, after the Audit 
Firm received a regulatory inquiry in March 2015 regarding the Audit Partner’s relationship with 
Respondent.  
 
       21.     In addition to these repeated out-of-town trips, the Audit Partner and Respondent 
frequently attended sporting events and socialized near the Issuer’s headquarters in the greater New 
York City area.  On a number of occasions, the Audit Partner flew to the greater New York City area 
for the purpose of attending a sporting event with Respondent and then left without visiting the 
Issuer’s headquarters or otherwise performing any audit-related work.  On at least two other 
occasions, the Audit Partner traveled to the greater New York City area for the purpose of having 
dinner at Respondent’s home with Respondent, Respondent’s family, Respondent’s neighbors, and 
other members of the audit engagement team, and then left without visiting the Issuer’s headquarters 
or otherwise performing any audit-related work. 
 
       22.     On at least three other occasions, the Audit Partner gifted sports tickets to 
Respondent, Respondent’s family, or friends of Respondent’s son for use when the Audit Partner was 
not present.  The Audit Partner also gifted hundreds of dollars’ worth of sports memorabilia to 
Respondent over the five-year engagement.   
 
       23.     The Audit Partner’s entertainment of Respondent and his family caused the Audit 
Partner to incur significant entertainment, travel, and lodging expenses.  In total, the Audit Partner 
incurred approximately $109,000 in entertainment-related expenses—meals, sports tickets, and related 
travel and lodging—in connection with the Issuer’s 2012, 2013, and 2014 audits.  In 2012, he spent 
approximately $29,545; in 2013, he spent approximately $52,119; and in 2014, he spent approximately 
$27,333.   
 
       24.     The Respondent’s relationship with the Audit Partner was marked not only by 
significant entertainment spending, but also by a close personal friendship.  During the relevant period, 
the Audit Partner and Respondent exchanged hundreds of personal texts, emails, and voicemails that 
did not include meaningful business-related discussions.  The Audit Partner and Respondent 
frequently referred to each other in emails as a “friend.”  Respondent also shared sensitive personal 
information not typically shared with a solely professional colleague with the Audit Partner.  In 2013, 
Respondent and his wife invited the Audit Partner to spend Thanksgiving at their home, but the Audit 
Partner decided to visit his father instead.   
 
       25.     In the aggregate, the frequent entertainment and social events shared by Respondent 
and the Audit Partner violated certain of the Audit Firm’s policies with respect to independence and 
client entertainment.  Respondent was aware, based upon his background in public accounting, that 
the Commission’s Regulation S-X requires auditors of public companies to maintain their 
independence from audit clients, and avoid conflicts of interest that could taint an audit.   
 

                                                    
                                                  5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       The Respondent’s Representations Concerning the Audit Firm’s Independence 
 
       26.     Despite Respondent’s understanding of the independence requirements of Regulation 
S-X and his knowledge of his close personal friendship with the Audit Partner, Respondent signed 
management representation letters to the Audit Firm stating that “We are not aware of any reason that 
[the Audit Firm] would not be considered to be independent” in connection with the 2012 and 2013 
audits.  
 
       27.     In connection with the 2014 audit, Respondent signed a similar management 
representation letter stating “We are not aware of any reason that [the Audit Firm] would not be 
considered to be independent for purposes of the Company’s audit, including our consideration of the 
matters communicated to the Audit Committee on March 12, 2015 and March 27, 2015 by [the Audit 
Firm].”  The “matters communicated to the Audit Committee on March 12, 2015 and March 27, 2015 
by [the Audit Firm]” included a presentation by the Audit Firm to the Issuer’s audit committee 
concerning the Audit Firm’s preliminary evaluation of the close personal relationship between 
Respondent and the Audit Partner, and certain remedial steps undertaken by the Audit Firm in 
connection with the Issuer’s audit in response to that relationship. 
 
       28.     In each of 2012, 2013, and 2014, the Audit Firm provided to the Issuer audit reports 
representing that the Audit Firm was independent of the Issuer.  These audit reports were included or 
incorporated by reference in the annual reports filed by the Issuer on Form 10-K.  Although 
Respondent should have realized that his close personal relationship with the Audit Partner impaired 
the Audit Firm’s independence and rendered the Audit Firm’s audit reports inaccurate, Respondent 
certified the Issuer’s annual reports in each of 2012, 2013, and 2014. 
 
E.     LEGAL ANALYSIS 

                            Basic Principles of Auditor Independence 
 
       29.     As the Commission has long recognized, “[i]ndependent auditors have an important 
public trust. . . .  It is the auditor’s opinion that furnishes investors with critical assurance that the 
financial statements have been subjected to a rigorous examination by an objective, impartial, and 
skilled professional, and that investors, therefore, can rely on them.”  Revision of the Commission’s Auditor 
Independence Requirements, Exchange Act Rel. No. 43602, 2000 WL 1726933, at *2 (Nov. 21, 2000) 
(Adopting Release).   
 
       30.     To be considered “independent” for purposes of the federal securities laws, a public 
accountant must be independent in both fact and appearance.  See In the Matter of Ernst & Young LLP, 
Exchange Act Rel. No. 46821, 2004 WL 824099, at *30 (Apr. 16, 2004) (independence in fact and 
appearance are “equally important under the securities laws”); see also United States v. Arthur Young & 
Co., 465 U.S. 805, 819 n.15 (1984) (“It is therefore not enough that financial statements be accurate; 
the public must also perceive them as being accurate.”)   
 
       31.     The circumstances in which an auditor will—and will not—be deemed independent 
are set forth in Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X.  Rule 2-01(c) provides a non-exclusive list of specific 
relationships that render an accountant non-independent.  Rule 2-01(b) provides the “general 

                                                   
                                                  6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

standard” for auditor independence, which all auditors must meet even if their conduct does not fall 
within one of the specific prohibitions in Rule 2-01(c).  Under the general standard,  
 
        [t]he Commission will not recognize an accountant as independent, with respect to an 
        audit client, if the accountant is not, or a reasonable investor with knowledge of all relevant facts 
        and circumstances would conclude that the accountant is not, capable of exercising objective and 
        impartial judgment on all issues encompassed within the accountant’s engagement. In 
        determining whether an accountant is independent, the Commission will consider all 
        relevant circumstances, including all relationships between the accountant and the 
        audit client and not just those relating to reports filed with the Commission.   
 
17 C.F.R. § 210.2-01(b) (emphasis added).  This standard applies with equal force to individual 
accountants and the audit firms in which they practice.  See 17 C.F.R. § 210.2-01(f)(1).   
 
       32.      A reasonable investor with knowledge of all relevant facts and circumstances 
concerning Respondent’s personal relationship with the Audit Partner would conclude that the Audit 
Partner was not capable of exercising objective and impartial judgment with respect to the audits of 
the Issuer.  Accordingly, the Audit Partner and the Audit Firm lacked independence during 2012, 
                2
2013, and 2014.   
 
       33.      Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 thereunder require public issuers to 
file with the Commission annual reports certified by an independent public accountant.  Because the 
Issuer’s annual reports for 2012, 2013, and 2014 were not audited by a public accountant who was 
independent within the meaning set forth in Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X, the Issuer violated Section 
13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 thereunder in each of those years. 
 
                                               Violations 
 
        34.     As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent caused the Issuer to violate 
Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 thereunder during each of 2012, 2013, and 2014.  
 
F.      FINDINGS 
 
        35.     Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent caused violations of 
Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 thereunder by the Issuer.   
 

                                                 
2
        As the Commission noted in the Adopting Release for the revisions to Rules 2-01 and 2-02, “[t]he definition of 
        ‘accountant’ includes the accounting firm in which the auditor practices.  The definition makes clear that an 
        individual accountant’s lack of independence may be attributed to the firm.”  Revision, Exchange Act Rel. No. 
        43602, 2000 WL 1726933, at *86. 
                                                      
                                                    7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions agreed 
to in the Respondent’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:   
 
       A.      Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent cease and desist from 
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act 
and Rule 13a-1 thereunder. 
 
       B.      Respondent shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money penalty 
in the amount of $25,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund 
of the United States Treasury, subject to Section 21F(g)(3) of the Exchange Act.  If timely payment is 
not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717.   
 
       C.      Payment must be made in one of the following ways:   
 
               (1)     Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                       will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
 
               (2)     Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                       through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
 
               (3)     Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States 
                       postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission 
                       and hand-delivered or mailed to:    
 
                       Enterprise Services Center 
                       Accounts Receivable Branch 
                       HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                       6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                       Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Waegelein’s name as the applicable Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these 
proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Sanjay Wadhwa, 
Senior Associate Regional Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 
200 Vesey Street, Suite 400, New York, NY 10281-1022.   
 
       D.      Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be 
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To preserve 
the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor Action, he shall 
not argue that Respondent is entitled to, nor shall Respondent benefit by, offset or reduction of any 
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil penalty 
in this action (“Penalty Offset”).  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty 
                                                   
                                                 8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

Offset, Respondent agrees that he shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty 
Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the 
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil penalty 
and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For 
purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a private damages action brought 
against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based on substantially the same facts as 
alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this proceeding.   
 
                                                  V. 

       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. § 523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by 
Respondent, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty, or other 
amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree, or 
settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by 
Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set forth 
in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. § 523(a)(19). 
 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                       Brent J. Fields 
                                                       Secretary 

                                                    
                                                   9 
