---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                         Before the  
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 79397 / November 23, 2016 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3832 / November 23, 2016 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-13952 

                          
                           :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
                           :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
In the Matter of  
                           :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
                           :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
Stephen Hozie  
                           :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                           :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 
                          

        

       On June 29, 2010, Stephen Hozie (“Hozie”) was suspended from appearing or practicing 
before the Commission as an accountant as a result of settled public administrative proceedings 
instituted by the Commission against Hozie pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission's 
                1
Rules of Practice.   This order is issued in response to Hozie’s application for reinstatement to 
appear and practice before the Commission as an accountant responsible for the preparation or 
review of financial statements required to be filed with the Commission. 

       In a civil action entitled Securities Exchange Commission v. Strauss, et al., the court 
entered a final order permanently enjoining Hozie from future violations of Section 17(a) of the 
Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rules 10b-5, 13a-14, 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder and from 
aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange 
Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder and barring him from serving as an officer 
or director for a period of five years.  Hozie was also ordered to pay a $225,000 civil money 
penalty and $1 of disgorgement.   
        
       In a complaint filed on April 28, 2009, the Commission alleged, among other things, that 
Hozie, fraudulently understated AHM’s first quarter 2007 loan loss reserves by tens of millions of 
dollars, converting the Company’s actual loss into a fictional profit.  The complaint also alleged 

                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 3148 dated June 29, 2010.  Hozie was permitted, pursuant 
to the order, to apply for reinstatement after five years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                    

that Hozie made misleading disclosures concerning the Company’s financial condition, including 
misrepresenting the Company’s liquidity and failing to adequately disclose the riskiness of the 
mortgages AHS originated and held.  The Complaint further alleged that Hozie misled AHM’s 
auditor about the adequacy of the reserves.   
          
       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Hozie 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Hozie is not, at this time, seeking to appear or 
practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to resume 
appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will be 
required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Hozie’s 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
                                                          2
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”   This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Hozie, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the June 29, 2010 order suspending 
him from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no information 
has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, professional 
conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis for adverse 
action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, and that 
Hozie, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of any 
company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, in his 
practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial statements required to be 
filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.  Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 
        
        
        
        
        
        

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this rule may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a hearing; 
however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated by the 
Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
 

                                                 2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                                 

       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Stephen Hozie is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                             
                                             
                                             
                                            Brent J. Fields  
                                            Secretary  
                                             

                                               3 
