---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                      Before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 74401 / March 2, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3641 / March 2, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16413 
 
                                              ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST 
In the Matter of                             PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO SECTION 
                                             21C OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
      ROBERT W. ELLIOT                       OF 1934, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                             IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER  
Respondent. 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
                                          I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 
21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against  Robert W. Elliot 
(“Respondent” or “Elliot”).   
 
                                          II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondent consents 
to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
                                            
                                            
                                            
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               III. 
                                                 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds 1
                                                                                 that: 
 
                                          Respondent 
 
       1.      Respondent, 51 years old, is a resident of Delmar, MD.  From August 2012 through 
January 2014, Respondent was the vice president of finance at Michael’s Finer Meats, LLC 
(“MFM”), a wholly owned subsidiary of The Chefs’ Warehouse, Inc. (“Chefs”).  Respondent is not, 
and has never been, a certified public accountant.  Respondent is currently employed as a credit 
manager at a private company in Seaford, Delaware.   
                
                                       Relevant Entities 
 
       2.      The Chefs’ Warehouse, Inc., a Delaware corporation with principal offices in 
Ridgefield, Connecticut, is a distributor of specialty food products.  The company has securities 
registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act, which trade on the Nasdaq Global Select 
Market.       
 
       3.      Michael’s Finer Meats, LLC was a private company   headquartered in Columbus, 
Ohio, specializing in the sale of frozen meat and seafood.  On or around August 13, 2012, Chefs 
acquired MFM.  MFM  is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Chefs. 
 
                                          Background 
 
       4.      From May 2008 to August 2012, Elliot was the chief financial o fficer (“CFO”) of 
MFM.  As the CFO, Elliot  had primary responsibility for all accounting functions at MFM, 
including accounting for the company’s inventory and cost of goods sold.     
        
       5.      In August 2012, Chefs acquired MFM, and MFM became a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of Chefs.  Elliot remained with MFM after the acquisition in the role of vice president of 
finance, and continued to have primary responsibility for MFM’s accounting functions, including 
accounting for the company’s inventory and cost of goods sold.  As a wholly-owned subsidiary of 
Chefs, MFM’s books, records, and accounts were incorporated and reported in Chefs’ consolidated 
financial statements.    
        
       6.      Both before and after the acquisition, MFM conducted manual counts of its 
inventory at the end of every quarter.  MFM employee s recorded the inventory of products on 
“count sheets,” which were then provided to Elliot.  Elliot input the information from those count 
sheets into a spreadsheet that he maintained and controlled.  Both before and after the acquisition, 
Elliot used the information in this spreadsheet to calculate certain financial results for MFM, 
including inventory values, cost of goods sold, and profit margins.     
        
                                                 
1
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other person 
or entity in this or any other proceeding.   
                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       7.      At the end of each quarter, after inputting the inventory information from the count 
sheets into the spreadsheet, Elliot would compare current profit margins to historical margins.  If a 
particular product’s profit margin deviated significantly from historical margins, Elliot normally 
worked with warehouse employees who conducted the inventory counts t    o determine whether an 
error had been made.  At times, errors were discovered, and Elliot adjusted the inventory 
information in the spreadsheet.  Elliot failed to prepare any documentation supporting these 
adjustments.   
        
       8.      At other times, Elliot did not investigate or otherwise was unable to identify 
inventory count errors that explained why profit margins were lower than historical margins.  In 
these instances, Elliot improperly increased the inventory amounts recorded in the spreadsheet to 
lower cost of goods sold, and increase profit margins, to a range consistent with historical margins.  
Elliot knew that these unsupported accounting adjustments were improper.   
        
       9.      These improper accounting entries resulted in Chefs reporting inaccurate financial 
statements in its quarterly report filed on Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 2012, its annual report 
filed on Form 10-K for 2012, its quarterly report filed on Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2013, 
its quarterly report filed on Form 10-Q for the second quarter of 2013, and its quarterly report filed 
on Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 2013.   
        
       10.     Chefs terminated Elliot in January 2014. 
        
       11.     On January 27, 2014, Chefs filed a Form 8 -K disclosing that unsupported 
accounting adjustments made by an employee of its MFM subsidiary had resulted in an aggregate 
overstatement of inventory, and understatement of cost of goods sold, of approximately $905,000.  
The company further reported that it did not believe the impact of the improper adjustments was 
material to the company’s consolidated financial statements for any one reporting period, and that 
it corrected the misstatements by recording a non-cash charge in the fourth quarter of 2013.   
        
                                           Violations 
        
       12.     As a result of the conduct described above, Elliot violated Section 13(b)(5) of the 
Exchange Act, which provides that no person shall knowingly circumvent or knowingly fail to 
implement a system of internal accounting controls or knowingly falsify any book, record, or 
account, and Rule 13b2-1, which provides that no person shall, directly or indirectly, falsify or 
cause to be falsified, any book, record or account, and caused a violation of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of 
the Exchange Act, which requires that every issuer of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 
of the Exchange Act make and keep books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, 
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the issuer. 
        
                                               IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Elliot’s Offer. 
 

                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.     Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent Elliot cease and desist 
from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 
13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act, and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder.   
 
       B.     Respondent shall, within seven days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money 
penalty in the amount of $25,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  If timely payment 
is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717.  Payment must be made in 
one of the following ways:   
 
       (1)    Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will 
              provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
        
       (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through the 
              SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
        
       (3)    Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States 
              postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and 
              hand-delivered or mailed to:  
        
       Enterprise Services Center 
       Accounts Receivable Branch  
       HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
       6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
       Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Robert W. Elliot as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a 
copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Scott W. Friestad, Division of 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE, Washington, DC 20549-5010.   
         
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                

                                              4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                                V. 

       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by 
Respondent, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other 
amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree 
or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by 
Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set 
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 
        
       By the Commission. 
                                                      
                                                     Brent J. Fields 
                                                     Secretary 

                                                5  
