---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 77346 / March 10, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3757 / March 10, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-17167 
 
                                              ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE -AND-DESIST 
In the Matter of                              PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO SECTION 
                                              21C OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
      Ronald D. Ormand                        OF 1934, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                              IMPOSING A CEASE -AND-DESIST ORDER  
Respondent.  
 
 
 
 
                                                 
 
                                           I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Ronald D. Ormand (“Respondent” or “Ormand”).   
 
                                           II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondent consents 
to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order 
(“Order”), as set forth below. 
                                             
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               III. 
 
                                                                                1
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that: 
 
 A.    SUMMARY 

       1.      This proceeding concerns failures by Magnum Hunter Resources Corporation 
(“MHR” or “the Company”) and its management to properly implement, maintain, and evaluate 
internal control over financial reporting (“ICFR”) for the fiscal year-ended December 31, 2011 and 
to maintain ICFR sufficient to keep pace with MHR’s growth from at least the fiscal year-ended 
December 31, 2011 through the quarter-ended September 30, 2013.  MHR’s failures resulted in 
part from Ronald D. Ormand (“Ormand”) and David S. Krueger (“Krueger”) improperly 
evaluating the severity of identified control deficiencies.    

B.     RESPONDENT AND RELATED ENTITIES AND INDIVIDUALS 

          i.    Respondent 

       2.      Ormand is a resident of Houston, Texas and was MHR’s Chief Financial Officer 
(“CFO”) from May 2009 through July 2013.   

         ii.    Other Relevant Entities and Individuals 

       3.      MHR is a Delaware corporation headquartered in Irving, Texas that operates as an 
independent oil and gas company engaged in the exploration and production of oil and gas in the 
United States.  At all relevant times, MHR’s stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to 
Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and traded on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”).  At all 
relevant times, MHR filed periodic reports with the Commission, including Forms 10-K and 10-Q, 
pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and related rules thereunder.  On December 15, 
2015, MHR filed a Form 8-K disclosing that the Company and certain subsidiaries had filed 
voluntary petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. 

       4.      Krueger is a resident of Flower Mound, Texas and was MHR’s Chief Accounting 
Officer (“CAO”) from October 2009 through October 2012.  He was previously licensed as a CPA 
in the states of Arkansas and Oklahoma. 

       5.      Wayne Gray, CPA (“Gray”) is a resident of Plano, Texas and a former partner at 
a PCAOB-registered public accounting firm.  Gray was the engagement partner responsible for 
providing MHR’s external auditing services for the December 31, 2009 through June 30, 2012 
reporting periods.  Gray is a CPA licensed in the state of Texas. 

       6.      Joseph Allred, CPA (“Allred”) is a resident of Arlington, Texas and is a partner at 
a PCAOB-registered public accounting firm.   Allred was responsible for the firm’s engagement 
                                                 
1
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not 
       binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
 
                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

that provided Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”) consulting and internal auditing services to 
MHR from 2009 through 2012.  These services included assisting MHR with documenting, 
evaluating, testing, and improving accounting and reporting processes.    

C.     FACTS 

          i.    Statutory requirements regarding ICFR  

       7.      Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act makes public companies responsible for 
devising and maintaining a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable 
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements 
in conformity with GAAP.  See 15 U.S.C. §78m(b)(2)(B). 

                                                                                                    2
       8.      Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(a) requires issuers, including MHR, to maintain ICFR.          
See 17 C.F.R. 240.13a-15(a).  Rule 13a-15(f) defines ICFR as:  

       [A]  process  designed  by,  or  under  the  supervision  of,  the  issuer’s  principal 
       executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, 
       and effected by the issuer’s board of directors, management and other personnel, to 
       provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the 
       preparation  of  financial  statements  for  external  purposes  in  accordance  with 
       generally accepted accounting principles[.]  17 C.F.R. 240.13a-15(f). 

       9.      Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(c) requires management—together with the 
participation of principal executive and principal financial officers (or persons performing similar 
functions)—to evaluate the effectiveness of ICFR as of the end of each fiscal year.  See 17 C.F.R. 
240.13a-15(c).  Under Rule 13a-15(c), management may satisfy its obligations by conducting an 
evaluation in accordance with interpretive guidance issued by the Commission in Release 
No. 34-55929, Commission Guidance Regarding Management’s Report on Internal Control Over 
Financial Reporting Under Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (the 
“2007 Guidance”). 

       10.    Item 308 of Regulation S-K requires management to provide an annual report that 
contains its assessment of the effectiveness of ICFR and any material weakness in ICFR.   Under 
Item 308, “[m]anagement is not permitted to conclude that the registrant’s [ICFR] is effective if 
there are one or more material weaknesses in the registrant’s [ICFR].”  17 C.F.R. 229.308.   

       11.    Item 308 of Regulation S-K further instructs that the registrant “must maintain 
evidential matter, including documentation, to provide reasonable support for management’s 
assessment of the effectiveness of the registrant’s [ICFR].”  The 2007 Guidance similarly states 
that “[m]anagement is responsible for maintaining evidential matter, including documentation to 
provide reasonable support for its assessment.”      

                                                 
2
 Rule 13a - 15(c) applies to issuers whose securities are registered under Section 12 of the 
Exchange Act and who are required either to file annual reports under Section 13(a) or 15(d) of 
the Exchange Act for the prior fiscal year or filed an annual report  for the prior fiscal year. 
                                                  3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       12.    Rule 1-02(a)(4) of Regulation S-X  defines categories of ICFR deficiencies based 
on the severity, as follows: 

          A “material weakness” is a “deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in [ICFR] 
           such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s 
           annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely 
           basis.”  See 17 C.F.R. 210.1-02(a)(4) (emphasis added).  A misstatement is reasonably 
           possible if the chance of a misstatement is more than remote but less than likely.  See 
           2007 Guidance at 34-35, n. 47 (citing Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement 
                                                 3
           No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies   ).   

         A “significant deficiency” is a “deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in [ICFR] 
           that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by 
           those responsible for oversight of the registrant’s financial reporting.”  Id. 
            
       13.    The “severity of a deficiency in ICFR does not depend on whether a misstatement 
actually has occurred but rather on whether there is a reasonable possibility that the company’s 
                                                                     4
ICFR will fail to prevent or detect a misstatement on a timely basis.”   See 2007 Guidance at 35 
(emphasis added). 

       14.    Item 308(a)(3) of Regulation S-K requires public companies such as MHR to 
annually provide a report of management that discloses material weaknesses that have been 
identified by management.  They are not required to publicly disclose significant deficiencies.  

       15.    Exchange Act Rule 13a-14 requires that every Form 10-Q and 10-K include 
certifications signed by each principal executive and principal financial officer (or persons 
performing similar functions).  See 17 C.F.R. 240.13a-14.  The certifying officers must confirm 
that the Form 10-Q or 10-K does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state 
a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which 
such statements were made, not misleading.  Id.  Ormand certified MHR’s 2011 Form 10-K and 
March 31, 2012 and June 30, 2012 Forms 10-Q. 

       16.    As detailed further below, MHR engaged Allred's firm to assist its management 
with the documentation, testing, and evaluation of the company’s ICFR in 2010, 2011, and 2012.  

                                                 
3
 FASB Statement No. 5 is available at 
http://www.fasb.org/jsp/FASB/Document_C/DocumentPage?cid=1218220126761&                acceptedDis
claimer=true .  It defines “reasonably possible” as: “The chance of the future event or events 
occurring is more than remote but less than likely.”  FASB No. 5 at 4.  It defines “remote” as: 
“The chance of the future event or events occurring is slight.”  Id. 
 
4
 See FR-77, Commission Guidance Regarding Management’s Report on Internal Control Over 
  Financial Reporting Under Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (June 
  27, 2007) (“Commission Guidance”), available at http://www.sec.gov/rules/interp/2007/33-
  8810.pdf. 
 
                                                 4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

Notwithstanding MHR’s reliance on the firm's services, MHR’s management—including Ormand 
and Krueger—were ultimately responsible for its conclusions about the effectiveness of MHR’s 
ICFR. 

         ii.    MHR’s Rapid Growth and Strained Accounting Resources 

       17.    MHR’s rapid growth strained its accounting resources.  For example, MHR grew 
from $6 million in revenues in 2009 to $23 million in 2010, largely as the result of an $82 million 
acquisition in February 2010.  In connection with the issuance of the external auditor’s report on 
MHR’s 2010 year-end audit results, Gray informed Ormand, Krueger, and MHR’s Audit 
Committee in February 2011 that MHR’s accounting department was experiencing “manpower 
issues” and lacked sufficient personnel to complete all required tasks on a timely basis.   

       18.    Between December 2010 and April 2011, MHR acquired another $70 million in oil 
and gas properties and leasehold mineral interests.  MHR also completed two other acquisitions in 
April and May 2011 for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $565 million.  In 2011, 
MHR booked over $100 million in revenues—largely as a result of these acquisitions.  This rapid 
growth created a significant burden on MHR’s accounting department.  For example, beginning in 
November 2011 MHR failed to complete its standard monthly close process and began formally 
closing its books on a quarterly basis with only sporadic monthly closes in 2012.   

        iii.    MHR’s ICFR assessment as of December 31, 2011 

              a.  Allred identified MHR’s insufficient accounting staffing as a control deficiency 
                  as of December 31, 2011. 

       19.    Allred led consulting engagements to document and test MHR’s ICFR.  In February 
2012, his firm issued a written report on MHR’s ICFR to certain MHR managers—including 
Ormand and Krueger—and MHR’s Audit Committee.  The report identified problems in MHR’s 
accounting department, including that the “accounting and financial reporting team has 
experienced significant delays in preparing financial statements and reports.”  As a result, Allred's 
team could not complete its testing activities within the time period originally scheduled.  The 
report further stated that two balance sheet account reconciliations for the month ending October 
2011 were not reviewed and approved in a timely manner and that management review of the 
consolidated October 2011 financial statements had not been formally documented.  

       20.    As of December 31, 2011, the report identified control deficiencies within MHR’s 
accounting function, including: (a) instances in which reconciliations were not prepared, reviewed, 
or approved on a timely basis; (b) failures to document the completion of required monthly 
management reviews; and (c) significant delays in preparing financial statements and reports due 
to “inadequate and inappropriately aligned staffing.”  The report stated: 

       [T]he   potential   for   error   in   such   a   compressed   work   environment   presents 
       substantial risk.   With  complex financial and reporting structures there are few 
       individuals within the team with the capacity to perform many tasks and there is 
       little time for senior reporting personnel to review, analyze, and evaluate because 
       they are performing transaction level reporting tasks.  (emphasis added) 
                                               5  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       21.    The report concluded, without explanation, that MHR’s staffing deficiency 
represented only a significant deficiency—rather than a material weakness.  The report did not 
explain how a deficiency that created a “substantial risk” of a financial statement error did not rise 
to the level of a material weakness, defined as a deficiency in ICFR that creates a reasonable 
possibility of a material misstatement not being prevented or detected on a timely basis. 

       22.    Krueger and Ormand accepted the assessment that MHR’s insufficient accounting 
staffing represented a significant deficiency.  Both Krueger and Ormand also relied on the absence 
of an actual identified material error in MHR’s financial statements as evidence that a material 
weakness did not exist as of December 31, 2011.  Neither Krueger nor Ormand prepared any 
documentary evidence to supplement the documentation created by Allred's team.  Consequently, 
the only documentation that supports MHR management’s assessment of the effectiveness of 
MHR’s ICFR as of December 31, 2011 is the documentation created by Allred's team and 
provided to MHR management.  

       23.    Because MHR management concluded that the control deficiency only rose to the 
level of a significant deficiency, rather than a material weakness, MHR did not publicly disclose 
the deficiency but instead stated that its ICFR was effective. 
        
               b.  Gray Misapplied the Applicable Standard When Determining the Severity of 
                  MHR’s Control Deficiency as of December 31, 2011. 

       24.    Gray failed to conduct the 2011 audit of MHR’s ICFR in accordance with PCAOB 
Auditing Standards No. 3, Audit Documentation (“AS3”), and No. 5, An Audit of Internal Control 
Over Financial Reporting That Is Integrated with An Audit of Financial Statements (“AS5”) and 
improperly approved the issuance of the external auditor’s audit report containing an unqualified 
opinion on MHR’s ICFR as of December 31, 2011. 

       25.    In February 2012, a year after first raising concerns over MHR’s accounting 
“manpower issues,” Gray reported to MHR’s Audit Committee a “[d]elay in closing the books due 
to [the] Company manpower shortage relative to [the] volume of financial activity.”  This resulted 
in “[n]umerous top-side adjustments” creating significant audit inefficiencies. 

       26.    Gray, as engagement partner, further reported that: 

       We believe there is not adequate internal control over financial reporting due to 
       inadequate   and   inappropriately   aligned   staffing.      This   factor   increases   the 
       possibility  of  a  material  error  occurring  and  being  undetected  and  reduces  the 
       Company’s ability to file its 10-K on time. 

       27.    Despite assessing that there was “not adequate internal control over financial 
reporting due to inadequate and inappropriately aligned staffing,” Gray concluded that this control 
deficiency rose to the level of a significant deficiency—rather than a material weakness.  The audit 
work papers failed to adequately document the basis for this conclusion.  They also failed to 
explain how the fact that MHR did “not [have] adequate internal control over financial reporting” 
was not indicative of a material weakness, defined as weakness that creates a reasonable possibility 

                                                6  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

(i.e., “more than remote but less than likely”) of a material error not being detected or corrected on 
a timely basis. 

       28.    When reporting audit results on the effectiveness of MHR’s ICFR as of 
December 31, 2011 to MHR’s Audit Committee, Gray identified MHR’s “inadequate and 
inappropriately aligned staffing” as a significant deficiency rather than as a material 
weakness. 

       29.    Gray determined that MHR’s inadequate and inappropriately aligned accounting 
staff did not constitute a material weakness because, among other things: (i) the audit work did not 
identify material errors for the reporting period, and (ii) he understood that MHR had recently 
hired additional accounting staff and that the existing staff, while overworked, was competent.   

       30.    However, this was a misapplication of the applicable standards.  As the engagement 
partner who led the audit of the effectiveness of MHR’s ICFR, Gray improperly applied the 
definitions of “material weakness” and “significant deficiency” codified in Rule 1-02(a)(4) of 
Regulation S-X and Appendix A of AS 5.  The severity of a deficiency does not depend on 
whether an error actually occurred.  AS 5, ¶ 64. 

       31.    Notwithstanding the systemic importance of an entity-level control, the written 
analysis was deficient for two reasons.  First, it failed to apply the appropriate standard for defining 
a material weakness.  Second, it failed to evaluate the severity of MHR’s control deficiency in 
accordance with AS 5 because it did not adequately consider: (a) the misstatement that might result 
from having insufficient accounting staff; (b) MHR’s ability to prepare accurate financial 
statements based on the possible future consequences of the deficiency; (c) the amounts and 
transactions exposed to the deficiency; or (d) the volume of activity exposed to the deficiency that 
occurred in the current period or that is expected in future periods.  AS 5, ¶¶ 62-70. 

       32.    Gray also failed to adequately document the basis for his conclusion.  Under AS 3, 
“[a]udit documentation should be prepared in sufficient detail to provide a clear understanding of 
its purpose, source, and the conclusions reached.”  AS 3, ¶ 4.  “The auditor must document the 
procedures performed, evidence obtained, and conclusions reached with respect to relevant 
                                
financial statement assertions.” AS 3, ¶ 6. “Audit documentation must clearly demonstrate that the 
                              
work was in fact performed.” AS 3, ¶ 6.   

       33.    The only written audit documentation assessing the severity of MHR’s accounting 
staffing deficiency was a summary spreadsheet purportedly identifying all MHR control 
deficiencies for the 2011 reporting period.  It documented the conclusion that MHR’s control 
deficiency did not rise above a significant deficiency for three main reasons: (i) MHR hired a 
controller and several senior level accountants during the latter part of 2011; (ii) MHR was in the 
process of integrating two major acquisitions completed in the second quarter of 2011 and the 
delay in the close process was mostly due to integration across entities; and (iii) individual analysis 
of two identified audit adjustments did not support a conclusion of a more severe control 
deficiency. 

                                                 7  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

       34.    In doing so, Gray failed to evaluate MHR’s deficiencies in accordance with AS 5.   
Auditors “must evaluate the severity of each control deficiency that comes to his or her attention to 
determine whether the deficiencies, individually or in combination, are material weaknesses as of 
the date of management’s assessment.”  AS 5, ¶ 62 (emphasis in original).      

               c.  MHR’s Management Retained Ultimate Responsibility for Evaluating the 
                   Severity of Any Control Deficiencies. 
                    
       35.    MHR disclosed in its 2011 Form 10-K that:  

       Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our 
       Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we assessed the effectiveness 
       of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of the period covered 
       by   this   report   based   on   the   framework   in   “Internal  Control  –  Integrated 
       Framework”   issued   by   the   Committee   of   Sponsoring   Organizations   of   the 
       Treadway Commission.  Based on that assessment, our Chief Executive Officer and 
       Chief Financial Officer concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting 
       were effective as of December 31, 2011 to provide reasonable assurance regarding 
       the  reliability  of  our  financial  reporting  and  the  preparation  of  our  financial 
       statements  for  external  purposes  in  accordance  with  U.S.  generally  accepted 
       accounting principles. 

See MHR Fiscal Year 2011 Form 10-K at p. F-53. 

       36.    When determining whether a deficiency constitutes a material weakness, 
                                                       5
management should consider all relevant information,     including information provided by outside 
parties.  While MHR management retained ultimate responsibility for assessing MHR’s ICFR, 
                                                               6
including evaluating the severity of any deficiencies in ICFR,   the information provided by Allred 
and Gray was relevant to  its assessment.  In addition, MHR’s management was responsible for 
                                                       7
maintaining documentation to support its assessment.    

       37.     Ormand and Krueger had knowledge of the stress placed on MHR’s accounting 
department as a result of its rapid growth.  Nonetheless, they did not sufficiently consider Allred’s 
or Gray’s findings in analyzing the severity of the control deficiencies, or the appropriateness of 
Allred’s and Gray’s conclusions in light of all other information which they were aware.  
Additionally, as discussed further below, MHR failed to maintain required evidential matter—
including documentation—providing reasonable support for its assessment. 

                                                 
5
 2007 Guidance at 37.   
 
6
 17 CFR 240.13a   - 15(c).   
 
7
 Instruction No. 2 to Item 308 of Regulation S   - K.  
                                                  8  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

               d.  MHR’s Documentation Indicated That Krueger Failed to Review MHR’s Q3 
                  2011 Form 10-Q on a Timely Basis.  

       38.    One of the consequences of MHR’s staffing deficiency resulted in Krueger signing 
off on MHR’s third quarter 2011 Form 10-Q five days after the Form 10-Q was filed with the 
Commission.  Because Krueger was the CAO—and highest ranking officer with an accounting 
background—responsible for reviewing MHR’s periodic reports prior to filing them with the 
                                                8
Commission, MHR had no compensating control       in its ICFR. 

               e.  MHR Failed to Adequately Document its Assessment of ICFR. 

       39.    Item 308 of Regulation S-K requires and the 2007 Guidance states that 
management must maintain documentation to provide reasonable support for its assessment of the 
effectiveness of the company’s ICFR.   

       40.    However, in its year-end 2011 assessment, MHR failed to generate or maintain 
documentation supporting its basis for determining the severity of its accounting staff deficiency.  
It thus did not adequately document its basis for concluding that the deficiency was a significant 
deficiency—rather than a material weakness.  This was true even though MHR management, and 
Ormand and Krueger specifically, had been informed that: (a) there was a “substantial risk” of an 
error (by Allred); and (b) “there is not adequate internal control over financial reporting” (by 
Gray). 

       41.    The control deficiency caused by MHR’s inadequate accounting staffing was 
particularly important because it was an entity-level control.  Because it was an important control 
that could affect other controls throughout the company, it needed to be fully understood and 
defined in order to determine the nature, extent, and severity of the deficiencies. 

               f.  MHR Management Misapplied the Appropriate Definition When Determining 
                  the Severity of MHR’s Control Deficiency as of December 31, 2011. 

       42.    Ormand and Krueger failed to apply the appropriate standard when determining the 
severity of MHR’s internal control deficiency.  As detailed above, while actual errors may inform 
assessments of control deficiencies, the presence of an actual error is not a prerequisite to 
concluding that a material weakness exists.  Rather, management is to consider whether there is a 
reasonable possibility that a material misstatement will not be timely detected or prevented.  In 
addition, the effectiveness of a company’s ICFR is assessed at a specific point in time—as of the 
end of the fiscal reporting period.  Planned or anticipated remedial efforts are irrelevant to the 
analysis. 

       43.    Ormand and Krueger improperly assessed the severity of the control deficiency 
caused by MHR’s “inadequate and inappropriately aligned staffing” as of December 31, 2011.  
MHR management should have assessed whether a reasonable possibility existed that a material 
                                                 
8
 “Compensating controls are controls that serve to accomplish the objective of another control 
that did not function properly, helping to reduce risk to an acceptable level.”  2007 Guidance at 
n. 49. 
                                                9  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

misstatement of the company’s financial statements would not be prevented or detected on a timely 
basis. 

        iv.    MHR’s Disclosure of the Existence of Material Weaknesses 

              a.  MHR Restates its June 30, 2012 Form 10-Q and Discloses Material 
                  Weaknesses. 

       44.    On November 14, 2012, MHR filed an amended Form 10-Q restating its June 30, 
2012 financial statements to correct a material error related to stock-based compensation and 
certain other errors.  MHR disclosed that management concluded that material weaknesses existed 
as of June 30, 2012 related to (i) a lack of sufficient, qualified personnel to design and manage an 
effective control environment; (ii) MHR’s period-end financial reporting process; and (iii) controls 
over calculation and review of share-based compensation expense.  MHR also disclosed 
management’s plans to remediate and improve the company’s ICFR and disclosure controls and 
procedures. 

       45.    Before restating, MHR’s Audit Committee met on October 19, 2012 to understand 
how the company had materially understated option based compensation expense in the second 
quarter.  Ormand reported that the person responsible for reviewing the calculation signed off 
without reviewing it.  Also at that meeting, Gray “restated that the root cause [of the error] was 
inadequate and inappropriately aligned staffing of the accounting department.” 

              b.  MHR’s Disclosed Material Weaknesses in its September 30, 2012 Form 10-Q. 

       46.    On November 13, 2012, MHR’s Audit Committee met and approved the 
company’s Form 10-Q for the third quarter-ended September 30, 2012.  That filing disclosed the 
same three material weaknesses existed at September 30, 2012 that had been disclosed in MHR’s 
amended June 30, 2012 Form 10-Q. 

              c.  MHR Delinquently Files its 2012 Form 10-K and Discloses Material 
                  Weaknesses. 

       47.    MHR delinquently filed its 2012 Form 10-K on June 14, 2013.  In it, MHR 
disclosed fourteen material weaknesses as of December 31, 2012, including that “[i]n certain areas 
the Company did not have sufficient personnel with an appropriate level of knowledge, experience 
and training commensurate with the growth of the Company's corporate structure and financial 
reporting requirements” and not upgrading “resources around internal audit, tax, financial reporting 
and certain accounting areas.” 

       48.    MHR’s internal analysis of the material weaknesses posed by its understaffed 
accounting department, as disclosed in its 2012 Form 10-K, recognized that the “significant 
deficiency identified at year-end 2011 does not appear[] to be remediated.  Personnel do not appear 
to have the competence and training necessary for their assigned level of responsibility.”   

                                               10   
---------------------Page 11---------------------

         v.    MHR Remediates Inadequate and Inappropriately Aligned Staffing in the 
               Third Quarter 2013 

       49.    On November 8, 2013, MHR filed its Form 10-Q for the quarter-ended September 
30, 2013.  While concluding that the Company’s ICFR was not effective as of September 30, 2013, 
management concluded that the material weakness that existed at quarter-end concerning 
accounting staff inadequacies had subsequently been remediated.   

D.     VIOLATIONS 

             i.    Ormand Violated Rules 13a-14 and 13a-15(c) of the Exchange Act. 
                   
       50.    As a result of the conduct described above, Ormand violated Rule 13a-14 of the 
Exchange Act, which requires an issuer’s principal financial officer to attest that the company’s 
“report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact,” and Rule 13a-15(c) of the 
Exchange Act, which requires an issuer’s management to evaluate, with the participation of the 
principal executive and principal financial officers (or persons performing similar functions) the 
effectiveness of the issuer’s ICFR as of the end of each fiscal year. 

                   
             ii.    Ormand Caused MHR to Violate Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) 
                  of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13, and 13a-15(a) thereunder. 
                   
       51.    As a result of the conduct described above, Ormand caused MHR to violate Section 
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, which requires Section 12 registrants to make and keep books, 
records, and accounts, which in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the issuer, and Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, which 
requires Section 12 registrants to devise and maintain a system of sufficient internal accounting 
controls. 

       52.    As a result of the conduct described above, Ormand caused MHR to violate Section 
13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13, thereunder, which require issuers with 
classes of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 registrants to file periodic and other reports 
with the Commission and Rule 13a-15(a) which requires issuers to maintain ICFR.    

 
                                               IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.      Respondent shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
any future violations Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 
13a-1, 13a-13, 13a-14, and 13a-15(a) and (c) thereunder. 

                                               11   
---------------------Page 12---------------------

 
       B.      Respondent shall, within 14 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money 
penalty in the amount of $25,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the 
general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If timely 
payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717.   
 
Payment must be made in one of the following ways:   
 
               (1)    Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                      will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
                
               (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
                
               (3)     Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
               Enterprise Services Center 
               Accounts Receivable Branch 
               HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
               6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
               Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Ormand as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of 
the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to David L. Peavler, Division of 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 801 Cherry Street, Suite 1900, Fort Worth, 
Texas 76102.   
 
       C.      Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be 
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To 
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor 
Action, he shall not argue that he is entitled to, nor shall he benefit by, offset or reduction of any 
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil 
penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”).  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a 
Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that he shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting 
the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the 
Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be deemed 
an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty 
imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a 
private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based 
on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this 
proceeding. 
 

                                               12   
---------------------Page 13---------------------

                                                     V. 
 
       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by 
Respondent, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other 
amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree 
or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by 
Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set 
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 

 
                    
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                      Brent J. Fields 
                                                      Secretary 
 
 
 
 

                                                 13   
