---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                        Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 71117 / December 18, 2013 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3519 / December 18, 2013 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15651 

                                             ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
In the Matter of                             ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
                                             PURSUANT TO SECTION 4C OF THE 
James Vincent Poti, CPA,                     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND 
                                             RULE 102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES 
Respondent.                                 
                                                                                    

                                             

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against James Vincent Poti, CPA 
                                                    1
(the  “Respondent”  or  “Poti”)  pursuant  to  Section  4C   [15  U.S.C.  §  78d-3]  of  the  Securities 
                                                              2
Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii)  of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice [17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(1)(ii)]. 

                                            II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of  Settlement  (the  “Offer”)  which  the  Commission  has  determined  to  accept.    Solely  for  the 
purpose  of  these  proceedings  and  any  other  proceedings  brought  by  or  on  behalf  of  the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein,  except  as  to  the  Commission’s  jurisdiction  over  him  and  the  subject  matter  of  these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 4C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and 

                                                 
1
   Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that “[t]he Commission may censure any person, or 
   deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the privilege of appearing or practicing 
   before the Commission in any way, if that person is found to . . . have engaged in . . . 
   improper professional conduct . . . .” 

2
   Rule  102(e)(1)(ii)  provides,  in  pertinent  part,  that  “[t]he  Commission  may  .  .  .  deny, 
   temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before it . . . to any 
   person who is found . . . to have engaged in . . . improper professional conduct.” 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions (the “Order”), as set forth below. 

                                               III. 

                                                                                3
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that: 

A.     Summary 

       1.      Poti engaged in improper professional conduct during Witt Mares, PLC’s (“Witt 
Mares”) 2008 year-end audit of Commonwealth Bankshares, Inc., the holding company for Bank of 
the Commonwealth (collectively, “Commonwealth” or the “Bank”).  He did so by failing to subject 
Commonwealth’s loan loss estimates – one of the audit areas that Witt Mares identified as higher 
risk – to appropriate scrutiny.  As engagement partner on the audit since 2006, Poti had ultimate 
responsibility for the audit decisions, the audit programs, the review of audit work papers, and the 
failures to follow the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the “PCAOB”) audit standards 
                                     4
that are the subject of this proceeding. 

       2.      Beginning   in   2006,   Commonwealth  –  then   a   small   Norfolk,   Virginia-based 
community bank – embarked on a strategic plan to accumulate assets over $1 billion.  It did so by 
lending more and more money to construction and development projects in Norfolk, Hampton, 
Newport News, Chesapeake, Portsmouth and Virginia Beach, Virginia.   At the same time that 
Commonwealth underwrote more and more construction and development loans on its quest to 
become a billion-dollar bank, those cities began to show signs of distress.  During 2008, as a result 
of the financial crisis and related real estate market crash, the construction and development projects 
funded by Commonwealth began to flounder and Commonwealth experienced a dramatic increase 
in the number of its troubled real estate loans.  Commonwealth’s classified loans – loans that could 
expose Commonwealth to partial or complete loss – had increased over the course of a year from 
approximately $8 million to $80 million – a tenfold increase.  The dramatic run-up of these so-
called classified loans – a major component of Commonwealth’s loan losses – coincided with a 
significant lack  of critical information necessary to assess potential losses in its loan portfolio.  
Specifically,  Commonwealth  lacked  current  appraisals on  the  collateral  securing  the  loans  and 
financial information on the guarantors behind the loans. 

       3.      Poti was well aware of Commonwealth’s loan documentation problems and the 
effect of these issues on the estimation of loan losses.  In fact, since at least 2006, the Witt Mares 
audit  team,  under  Poti’s  supervision,  as  well  as  Commonwealth’s  primary  regulators,  had 
repeatedly criticized the Bank’s Board of Directors and management that the failure to obtain 
and update critical information in Commonwealth’s loan files posed a concern.  During the 2008 
audit, Poti and the other members of the audit team identified the loan loss reserves as presenting 
                                                 
3
   The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer and are not binding on any 
   other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

4
   All citations to PCAOB auditing standards    refer to   the  standards in effect at the time of the 
   conduct discussed herein.  

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

significant  risk  of  material  misstatement  and  fraud  risk.   Notwithstanding  the  audit  team’s 
identification of the loan loss reserve as a potentially significant problem area, the actual audit work 
in  this  area  was  inadequate  and  the  resulting  audit  opinion  was  not  supported  by  reliable  or 
persuasive  evidence.   In fact,  based  on  the audit  tests  of the troubled loans, the audit team 
concluded  that,  for  a  significant  percentage  of  the  loans  reviewed,  there  was  “[i]nadequate 
financial information in [the] file to determine if additional reserve is necessary.”  Despite this 
and  other  audit-identified  issues  that  are  detailed  below,  Poti  authorized  the  issuance  of  an 
unqualified audit opinion  on  Commonwealth’s  financial statements  and internal  control  over 
financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2008. 

       4.     In sum, Poti failed to obtain sufficient, competent evidential matter to support the 
issuance of unqualified audit opinions.  He further failed to act with due professional care and to 
exercise professional skepticism.  These failures, detailed below, resulted in repeated instances 
of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards, that 
indicate a lack of competence to practice before the Commission. 

B.     Respondent 

       5.     James Vincent Poti, CPA, age 63, is a resident of Midlothian, Virginia.  Poti has 
been an auditor and partner at PBMares,  LLP since the firm was formed on January 1, 2013 
through the merger of PBGH LLP and Witt Mares, PLC (“Witt Mares”), and an auditor and 
partner  at  Witt  Mares  from  November  2002  until  the  merger.    Poti  was  a  member  of  the 
Commonwealth  audit  team  from  2006  through  September  23,  2011,  when  federal  and  state 
banking regulators closed Commonwealth’s banking subsidiary, and was the engagement partner 
for the 2008 audit.  As engagement partner, Poti was responsible for the audit and its performance, 
for proper supervision of the work of the  audit  team members, and for compliance with PCAOB 
standards.  Poti is currently licensed as a CPA in Virginia and has no disciplinary history. 

C.     Other Relevant Entities 

       6.     Commonwealth Bankshares, Inc. (“Commonwealth” or the “Bank”), formerly a 
Virginia corporation, was, during the relevant time period, a holding company for Bank of the 
Commonwealth, a Virginia state-chartered commercial bank headquartered in Norfolk, Virginia.  
Commonwealth’s common stock was initially registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 
12(g) of the Exchange Act and was quoted on the NASDAQ National Market under the stock 
symbol “CWBS.”  On July 31, 2006, after the NASDAQ became a national exchange, pursuant to 
Commission global order, all NASDAQ National Market issuers became Section 12(b) registrants 
listed on the new NASDAQ Global Market (“NASDAQ”).  On September 23, 2011, the Virginia 
State Corporation Commission’s Bureau of Financial Institutions (the “SCC”) and the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”), which insured the deposits held by the Bank, closed 
the Bank and entered into a purchase and assumption agreement with a subsidiary of a privately 
held  bank  holding  company  to  assume  the  deposits  of  the  Bank.    On  November  10,  2011, 
NASDAQ  filed  a  Form  25  with  the  Commission,  in  which  it  stated  that  it  had  delisted 
Commonwealth’s common stock from the NASDAQ exchange for failing to satisfy the exchange’s 
requirements effective on November 21, 2011 and deregistered it from Section 12(b), effective 90 
days after the filing of the Form 25.  After the effective date of NASDAQ’s deregistration of 

                                               3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

Commonwealth   from   Section   12(b),   Commonwealth   reverted   to   its   prior   Section   12(g) 
registration.  Commonwealth remained an inactive corporate entity until May 31, 2013, when the 
SCC  terminated  Commonwealth’s  corporate  registration.    On  July  31,  2013,  the  Commission 
revoked Commonwealth Section 12(g) registration by consent. 

       7.     Witt Mares, PLC (“Witt Mares”) was, during the relevant time period, a public 
limited  company  headquartered  in  Richmond,  Virginia  engaged  in  the  business  of  providing 
accounting and auditing services.  Witt Mares audited Commonwealth’s financial statements and 
internal  control  over  financial  reporting  for  the  year  ended  December  31,  2008  and  issued 
unqualified opinions.  On January 1, 2013, Witt Mares merged with PBGH LLP to form PBMares, 
LLP. 

D.     Commonwealth’s Troubled Loan Portfolio and the Failure of the Bank 

       8.     Commonwealth was a Norfolk, Virginia-based bank that had historically focused 
on commercial banking and residential loans.  By 2006, Commonwealth’s assets had grown to 
approximately $715 million, of which the Bank’s loan portfolio accounted for $670 million. 

       9.     In July 2006, Commonwealth adopted a strategic plan to reach one billion in assets 
by December 31, 2009.  As part of this goal, Commonwealth began to make substantially more 
construction  and  development  loans  than  it  previously  had  made.    By  December  31,  2006, 
Commonwealth’s exposure to such loans climbed to approximately $179 million, or 27%, of gross 
loans.    Commonwealth’s  exposure  to  commercial  and  construction  and  development  loans 
continued to climb in 2007 and 2008, when its exposure to such loans amounted to approximately 
$223 million, or 28%, and $295 million, or 29%, of gross loans, respectively.  Virtually all of 
Commonwealth’s construction and development loans related to properties located in Norfolk and 
Virginia Beach, Virginia. 

       10.    Beginning in or about 2006, the Norfolk commercial real estate market began to 
show signs of distress.  As time progressed, the market trends grew worse.  Condominiums and 
office space were particularly hit.  At the end of 2008, office space and condominium prices were 
both  down  approximately  10%  from  2007  nationally.    At  the  end  of  2009,  the  trend  had 
deteriorated for these two categories of real estate, with office space prices down approximately 
23% and condominium prices down approximately 22% nationally. 

       11.    The decline in Norfolk’s commercial real estate market had a direct impact on 
Commonwealth’s allowance for loan and lease losses (the “ALLL”) during the relevant period.  
The ALLL is an estimate of probable losses that reduces the book value of loans and leases to the 
amount that is expected to be collected.  The ALLL is a material financial metric for banks, like 
Commonwealth, whose principal assets are loans.  Inasmuch as the ALLL represents the Bank’s 
assessment of probable losses on its loans, increases to the ALLL reflect an assessed deterioration 
of its loan portfolio.  In addition, any increase in the ALLL (a balance sheet item) is accompanied 
by the recording of a provision for loan losses (an income statement item), thereby impacting a 
company’s reported income or losses. 

                                               4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       12.    Commonwealth’s ALLL principally had two components – smaller, homogeneous 
loans  that  were  pooled  and  accorded  generalized  treatment  under  the  Financial  Accounting 
                                                                          5
Standards Board’s (“FASB”) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards      No. 5 (“FAS 5”) and 
larger and non-homogeneous loans – typically development and construction loans – that were 
individually analyzed under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 114 (“FAS 114”).  
Throughout 2008, Commonwealth experienced a dramatic rise in high-risk problem loans that 
were deemed “impaired” pursuant to FAS 114, meaning it was probable the Bank would not 
recover all amounts contractually due.  In fact, the portion of Commonwealth’s ALLL that was 
attributed to FAS 114 impaired loans grew from approximately $3 million as of December 31, 
2006 to more than $21 million as of December 31, 2008. 

       13.    A key consideration in assessing the amount of ALLL required for impaired loans 
is the “fair value” of the collateral.  Although GAAP does not specify the precise manner in which 
fair value is to be determined, fair value is measured from the perspective of factors considered by 
market participants.  In commercial real estate, a current appraisal provides persuasive evidence of 
                                                               6
current market conditions on the appraised value of collateral.  Commonwealth’s Credit Policy 
Manual provided that a written appraisal was the only way to determine the fair value of collateral 
securing collateral-dependent loans.  Notwithstanding these considerations and Commonwealth’s 
own policies, Witt Mares and Commonwealth’s banking regulators found that the Bank lacked 
current appraisals for a significant percentage of collateral-dependent impaired loans. 

       14.    Current  financial  information  for  borrowers  and  guarantors  also  is  critical  for 
evaluating the condition of a loan.  Guarantor financial information is particularly important for 
impaired loans where the fair value of the collateral securing the loan was less than the unpaid 
principal balance on the loan because, in the event the borrower defaults and the fair value of the 
collateral is not enough to satisfy the loan’s unpaid principal balance, the bank can seek to satisfy 
the  remaining  balance  from  the  guarantor.   The  absence  of  current  and  complete  guarantor 
financial information makes it difficult for the bank to assess whether the guarantor is in a position 
to make the bank whole if the collateral is not enough to satisfy the loan.   Recognizing this, 
Commonwealth’s  Credit   Policy   Manual  highlighted   the   importance   of   guarantor   financial 
information to evaluating collectability, describing one characteristic of “problem loans” as a loan 
where “[t]he borrower or guarantor displays deterioration of financial condition as evidenced by 
                                                    
financial statements or other available information.” 

       15.    Commonwealth’s primary regulators – the SCC and the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond (the “FRB”)  –  had raised concerns that Commonwealth’s lending and underwriting 

                                                 
5
   In 2009, FASB codified existing standards into the Accounting Standards Codification (the 
   “ASC”).    The  ASC  is  the  current  single  source  of  United  States  Generally  Accepted 
   Accounting Principles (“GAAP”).  During most of the time period relevant to this Order, the 
   ASC had not yet been published; thus, the Order cites to pre-codification GAAP in effect at 
   the time of the conduct discussed herein. 

6
   See, e.g., Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 102, 66 Fed. Reg. 36,457, 36,462 n.44 
   (July 6, 2001). 

                                                5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

practices were not keeping pace with the scope of loan growth.  Specifically, the SCC’s October 
16, 2006 report of examination concluded that credit administration weaknesses existed, in part, 
due  to  numerous  “[d]ocumentation  exceptions”  which  “included  missing  or  stale  financial 
statements and/or income information along with the lack of final title policies, recorded deeds of 
trust, and cash flow analyses.”  The FRB’s January 11, 2008 report of examination similarly 
concluded that “[a]n inordinate number of loans reviewed at this examination reflected lacking or 
stale financial information.” 

       16.    In September 2008, the SCC conducted an examination of Commonwealth that 
focused on capital adequacy, asset quality, management, earnings performance, liquidity and funds 
management, and sensitivity to market risk (“CAMELS”).  As a result of that examination, the 
SCC downgraded the Bank’s composite CAMELS rating to a 3 (indicating a financial institution 
with  “a  combination  of  weaknesses  in  risk-management  practices  and  financial  condition  that 
range from fair to moderately severe”).  The SCC provided the Bank with a report of examination 
(the “2008 SCC Report”) that deemed the institution to be in troubled condition and board and 
management performance to be poor.  The 2008 SCC Report concluded that Commonwealth had 
experienced  a  significant  deterioration  in  asset  quality  because  “[t]he  focus  on  loan  growth 
overshadowed  the  need  to  properly  observe  effective  credit-administration  and  underwriting 
practices.”  In particular, the 2008 SCC Report determined that “adversely classified assets” – 
loans that would have to be measured for impairment under FAS 114 – had, over the course of a 
year’s time, increased from approximately $8 million to $80 million, a tenfold increase.  According 
to the 2008 SCC Report, “[a] key contributing factor in the problems with the risk-identification 
system and  the reserve methodology is the pervasive lack of current financial information on 
borrowers.” 

       17.    Despite  the  dire  warnings  in  the  2008  SCC  Report,  Commonwealth  failed 
adequately to address the concerns regarding the loan portfolio.  As a result, in 2009, the FRB 
further  downgraded  the  Bank’s  CAMELS  score  to  a  5  (indicating  a  financial  institution  with 
“extremely unsafe and unsound practices or conditions . . . and are of the greatest supervisory 
concern”). 

       18.    Due  in  large  part  to  Commonwealth’s  persistent  failure  to  obtain  and  update 
appraisals   and   guarantor  financial  information,  the  FRB  identified  an  understatement   in 
Commonwealth’s  ALLL  for  the  period  ended  September  30,  2009.    On  January  29,  2010, 
Commonwealth issued a press release disclosing $23 million in additional ALLL for that period.  
The $23 million ALLL increase caused Commonwealth to file amended and restated financials 
for the quarter ended September 30, 2009 with the Commission.  Of the $23 million increase, 
approximately  $10  million  was  attributable  to  downgrades  of  individual  loans  and  loan 
                                                                 7
relationships evaluated under the ASC’s codification of FAS 114.   

       19.    After    the    restatement,    Commonwealth’s    financial    condition  continued    to 
deteriorate.    On   June   30,   2011,   the   FRB  found   that  Commonwealth  was   “critically 
undercapitalized.”  On September 23, 2011, SCC and the FDIC, which insured the deposits held by 

                                                 
7
   See generally ASC 310. 

                                               6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

Commonwealth, closed the Bank and entered into a purchase and assumption agreement with a 
subsidiary of a privately held bank holding company to assume the deposits of the Bank. 

E.     The Auditors Recognized the Risks in Commonwealth’s Troubled Loan Portfolio 

       20.    Prior to and during Witt Mares’ 2008 audit of Commonwealth, Poti was aware of 
the risk and significance of the Bank’s ALLL, and of the component related to the Bank’s FAS 114 
loans specifically. 

       1.     Poti Identified Risks During Witt Mares’ 2006 and 2007 Audits 

       21.    Poti served as the lead partner on the Commonwealth audit for the year-end 2006 
through  2009  audits  and  had  raised  concerns  regarding  Commonwealth’s  loan  portfolio  to 
Commonwealth during earlier audits.  On March 13, 2007 and March 10, 2008, Poti signed, on 
Witt Mares’ behalf, reports to Commonwealth’s audit committee.  These reports commented on 
the lack of current financial statements and other loan documentation in Commonwealth’s loan 
files and noted that “credit decisions made on outdated or inaccurate financial information can 
potentially lead to an increase in classified assets and losses for the Bank.” 

       22.    By the time that Witt Mares began its audit work for the year ended December 31, 
2008, despite the repeated comments in reports to Commonwealth’s audit committee described 
above in Paragraph 21, Commonwealth’s management had not corrected the previously-identified 
deficiencies. 

       2.     Poti Identified ALLL Risks During Witt Mares’ 2008 Audit 

       23.    The year-end 2008 audit planning document – which Poti reviewed and approved – 
identified the ALLL as a “High Risk Audit Area.”  A risk assessment summary work paper noted 
that  the  Bank’s  ALLL  presented  a  significant  risk  of  material  misstatement,  with  respect  to 
inherent risk and the risk of fraud. 

       3.     The  Initial  Calculation  of  Commonwealth’s  ALLL  Was  Performed  by  A 
              Senior Loan Officer 

       24.    During Witt Mares’ walk-through of Commonwealth’s internal controls, a manager 
on the audit learned that the senior loan officer performed the initial ALLL calculation, which was 
then  reviewed  by,  among  others,  the  Bank’s  vice  president  for  credit  administration,  Chief 
Financial Officer (the “CFO”) and the Board of Directors.  Poti, who reviewed the memorandum 
summarizing  the  manager’s  walkthrough  of  Commonwealth’s  ALLL  controls,  had  significant 
concerns about having the senior loan officer perform the initial ALLL calculation since the loan 
officer was evaluating many loans that he originated and closed. 

       4.     The SCC Identified a Significant Understatement of the ALLL 

       25.    In   connection   with   its   September   2008   examination,   the   SCC   identified   a 
deficiency in Commonwealth’s ALLL as of September 30, 2008 in the amount of $19 million, 
representing  an  approximate  200%  increase  over  the  ALLL  reported  the  previous  year  of 

                                              7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

approximately $9 million.  Poti was aware of this deficiency:  A manager had directly identified 
“the need for significant additions” to the ALLL in a work paper summarizing the 2008 SCC 
Report that Poti reviewed.  Further, the 2008 SCC Report, discussed above in Paragraph 16, was 
provided to Witt Mares and included in the work papers. 

       5.      Witt Mares’ Testing Identified A Significant Deficiency in Internal Control 
              Over Financial Reporting in Commonwealth’s ALLL Process and Controls 

       26.    The summary  of the 2008 SCC Report, discussed above in Paragraph  25, also 
highlighted for Poti the following issues, among others:  (a) The lack of current guarantor financial 
statements; (b) excessive financial statement exceptions; (c) inadequate cash flow analyses and 
loan review; (d) a significant deterioration in asset quality; and (e) a significant understatement of 
Commonwealth’s ALLL.  The results of the SCC were a surprise to Poti, who remarked in an e-
mail to a colleague that he felt that Commonwealth’s management had “mislead [sic] us about the 
severity of the State exam.”   

       27.    Poti was sufficiently concerned by the SCC’s findings that he caused additional 
audit testing of Commonwealth’s internal controls to be conducted.  The audit tests designed were: 

              a.      Testing of controls designed to ensure that all nonaccrual loans were placed 
on the nonaccrual list; 

              b.     Testing  of  controls  designed  to  ensure  that  loan  officers  had  obtained 
updated financial information for loans placed on the Bank’s watch list; 

              c.      Testing of controls designed to confirm that the Bank’s loan officers were 
obtaining or performing current cash flow projections, appraisals or other analyses for loans placed 
on the Bank’s watch list; 

              d.     Testing  of  controls  designed  to  confirm  that  extensions  of  credit  and 
renewed loans were being closed in a manner consistent with terms approved by the Board of 
Directors; 

              e.      Testing   of   controls   designed   to   determine   the   proper   treatment   of 
capitalized interest; and 

              f.      Testing  of  controls  designed  to  determine  if  critical  items  were  being 
cleared in a timely fashion from the Bank’s exception reports and confirm that management was 
monitoring the reports. 

       28.    Of  the  six  specific  tests  described  above  in  Paragraph  27,  Witt  Mares  noted 
deviations from Commonwealth’s controls in all but one of the tests (described in Paragraph 27.a).  
Witt Mares noted deviations from Commonwealth’s controls for four of the tests (described in 
Paragraphs 27.b, 27.c, 27.d, and 27.e).  Witt Mares’ work papers did not document the results of 
the sixth test (described in Paragraph 27.f).  The results of the specific tests and led the Witt Mares 
audit team to conclude that a significant deficiency in internal control over financial reporting 
existed as of the year ended December 31, 2008. 

                                                8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

       6.      The Audit’s Substantive Testing of ALLL Identified Significant Problems 

       29.    Through  the  audit  team’s  work,  Poti  was  aware  that,  despite  market  declines, 
Commonwealth management often did not get updated appraisals on the collateral underlying the 
Bank’s FAS 114 loans or guarantor financial information for the guarantors of the loans.  In fact, 
around  the  same  time  as  the  audit  of  Commonwealth  was  taking  place,  Poti  understood  that 
“appraisals as current as 6 months ago could be considered stale and not reflective of true market 
values.”  During the audit team’s review of Commonwealth’s loan portfolio as of year-end 2008, 
members of the audit team noted appraisals more than a year old and a significant lack of current 
guarantor   financial  information   in   loan   files.    In   fact,  during  Witt   Mares’  review   of 
Commonwealth’s loan portfolio, the audit team noted that there was: 

               a.      “Inadequate  financial  information  in  [the]  file  to  determine  if  additional 
reserve is necessary” for loan files representing approximately 30% of the value of the total loan 
sample balance and approximately 5% of the value of the FAS 114 loans in the ALLL; 

               b.      Approximately  75%  of  the  value  of  the  total  loan  sample  balance  and 
approximately 52% of the value of the FAS 114 loans in the ALLL represented loan files that were 
missing, or contained stale, guarantor financial information; and 

               c.      Approximately  33%  of  the  value  of  the  total  loan  sample  balance  and 
approximately 37% of the value of the FAS 114 loans in the ALLL consisted of loan files that 
contained appraisals that were dated between 2005 and 2007 – dates more than a year before the 
loan review took place. 

F.     Commonwealth’s FAS 114 Loans Were Material 

       30.    The  portion  of  the  ALLL  related  to  Commonwealth’s  FAS  114  loans  was 
                                                8
approximately  $21  million  and  was  material.   It  far  exceeded  the approximately $5  million 
planning materiality threshold established for the 2008 audit.  It was reasonably possible that even 
a small change in the value of the Bank’s FAS 114 loans would cause a material error in the 
financial statements. 

       31.    The portion of the ALLL related to Commonwealth’s FAS 114 loans was material 
for additional reasons: 

               a.      The trend in Commonwealth’s reported ALLL was in precipitous decline.  
As of December 31, 2006, Commonwealth’s reported ALLL was slightly more than $8 million.  
At year-end 2007, the ALLL slightly increased to approximately $9 million.  By year-end 2008, 
the ALLL had more than tripled to approximately $31 million. 

                                                 
8
   AU § 312 ¶   3  (“The concept of materiality recognizes that some matters, either individually 
   or in the aggregate, are important for fair presentation of financial statements in conformity 
   with  generally  accepted  accounting  principles,  while  other  matters  are  not  important.”) 
   (footnote omitted). 

                                                 9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

               b.      On November 6, 2008, Commonwealth issued a press release announcing 
its third quarter results, which included disclosure of the $19 million ALLL deficiency described 
above   in   Paragraph  25.      The   next   trading   day   following   this  disclosure,   the   value   of 
Commonwealth’s common stock plummeted approximately 14%. 

               c.      Commonwealth itself acknowledged the importance of its ALLL, including 
the FAS 114 loans, devoting several pages in its Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 
(the “2008 10-K”) to a discussion of problem loans and the ALLL.  Indeed, Commonwealth’s 
2008 10-K expressly warned that “[if] our allowance for loan losses becomes inadequate, our 
results of operations may be adversely affected.” 

       32.    Given the risk and materiality of the ALLL related to the Bank’s FAS 114 loans, 
and  the  many  identified  red  flags  described  above  in  Paragraphs  21  through  29,  Poti  had 
heightened responsibility in auditing this area, and was required to obtain sufficient competent 
evidential matter to support his opinion.  He failed in this responsibility. 

G.     Poti Caused Witt Mares to Issue an Unqualified Opinion 

       33.    On March 16, 2009, Commonwealth filed audited consolidated financial statements 
as an exhibit to the 2008 10-K.  Filed with the financial statements was Witt Mares’ audit report 
dated March 11, 2009, which stated, among other things, that “[i]n our opinion, the consolidated 
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position 
of Commonwealth Bankshares, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the 
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended 
December 31, 2008, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United 
States of America[,]” and that “in our opinion, Commonwealth Bankshares, Inc. and subsidiaries 
maintained,  in  all  material  respects,  effective  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  as  of 
December 31, 2008 . . . .”  

H.     Poti’s Improper Professional Conduct 

       34.    The Commission’s Rules allow the Commission to censure or deny, temporarily or 
permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before it in any way certain professionals 
                                                 9
who violate “applicable professional standards.”   For auditors of issuers such as Commonwealth, 
the applicable professional standards include auditing standards issued by the PCAOB. 

       1.      General Standards 

       35.    The PCAOB’s three general standards of auditing require that an auditor, among 
                                                                                10
other things, exercise due professional care in the performance of the audit.      The three basic 
stan dards of field work require the auditor to (1) adequately plan and properly supervise the audit, 

                                                   
9
   Rule 102(e) [17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)].   

10
    AU § 150 ¶ 2.  

                                                10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

(2) obtain a sufficient understanding of internal control to plan the audit, and (3) obtain sufficient 
                                                                          11
competent evidential matter to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion.  

       36.     Auditors are required to obtain “sufficient competent evidential matter” to afford a 
                                            12
reasonable basis for the auditor’s opinions.    “Gathering and objectively evaluating audit evidence 
                                                                                 13
requires the auditor to consider the competency and sufficiency of the evidence.”   PCAOB standards 
note  that  evidential  matter  obtained  from  independent  sources  outside  an  entity  provides  greater 
assurance of reliability than that secured solely within the entity, and that the auditor’s direct personal 
knowledge, obtained through physical examination, observation, computation, and inspection, is more 
                                               14
persuasive than information obtained indirectly.  

       37.     Further, audit procedures, and the amount and persuasiveness of evidence auditors are 
required to obtain, are driven by risk.  “Audit risk and materiality, among other matters, need to be 
considered  together  in  determining  the  nature,  timing,  and  extent  of  auditing  procedures  and  in 
                                            15
evaluating the results of those procedures.”   When auditors identify a significant risk of material 
misstatement, as they did here, that fact is relevant to, among other things, the nature and extent of the 
                              16
audit procedures to be applied.   “Higher risk may cause the auditor to expand the extent of procedures 
applied, apply procedures closer to or as of year-end, particularly in critical audit areas, or modify the 
                                                         17
nature of procedures to obtain more persuasive evidence.”   

       38.     Poti, as the engagement partner, was responsible for the audit and its performance, for 
proper supervision of the work of the audit team members, and for compliance with PCAOB standards.     

       39.     At the completion of the audit, Poti signed off that he had “reviewed the completed 
audit programs” and was “satisfied that our audit(s) of the financial statement and internal control” 

                                                 
11
   Id. 

12
    AU § 326 ¶ 1;    see also AU § 230 ¶ 11 (“The independent auditor’s objective is to obtain 
   sufficient  competent evidential  matter to provide him or her with  a reasonable basis for 
   forming an opinion.”). 

13
    AU § 230 ¶ 8.  

14
    AU § 326 ¶ 21.   

15
    AU § 312 ¶ 1;   see also id. ¶ 12 (“The auditor should consider audit risk and materiality both 
   in (a) planning the audit and designing auditing procedures and (b) evaluating whether the 
   financial  statements  taken  as  a  whole  are  presented  fairly,  in  all  material  respects,  in 
   conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.  The auditor should consider audit 
   risk and materiality in the first circumstance to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter 
   on which to properly evaluate the financial statements in the second circumstance.”). 

16
   Id. ¶ 17. 

17
   Id. 

                                                  11 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

were “sufficient and appropriate to support the auditor’s report(s) and were conducted in accordance 
with PCAOB standards and other applicable legal and regulatory requirements.”  

       40.     As detailed below, Poti’s conduct in planning, supervising, and performing Witt Mares’ 
audit of Commonwealth’s 2008 internal control over financial reporting and financial statements – 
specifically the portions of the audit relating to the Bank’s FAS 114 loans – violated numerous PCAOB 
standards.  Most prominently, the auditors violated the requirements of AS No. 5 (An Audit of Internal 
Control Over Financial Reporting That Is Integrated with An Audit of Financial Statements), and AU 
Sections 328 (Auditing Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures) and 342 (Auditing Accounting 
Estimates) related to the substantive audit procedures.  Poti also violated the third standard of field 
work (Audit Documentation).   

       2.      The  Audit  of  Commonwealth’s  Internal  Control  over  Financial  Reporting 
               Violated Professional Standards 

       41.    For year-end 2008, Witt Mares performed an integrated audit of Commonwealth, 
meaning  that  the  audit  of  Commonwealth’s  internal  controls  over  financial  reporting  was 
integrated with the audit of Commonwealth’s financial statements.   When an auditor assesses 
control risk below the maximum level, as the auditors did here, he or she should obtain sufficient 
                                                 18
evidential matter to support that assessed level.     Mo reover, if one or more material weaknesses 
                                                                                               19
exist, the company’s internal control over financial reporting cannot be considered effective.   “A 
material  weakness  is  a  deficiency,  or  a  combination  of  deficiencies,  in  internal  control  over 
financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the 
company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely 
      20
basis.”  

       42.    AS No. 5 provides specific requirements for auditing internal control over financial 
reporting in an integrated audit, including that the auditors should determine the likely sources of 
potential misstatements that would cause the financial statements to be materially misstated and 
                                                                  21
focus more of his or her attention on the areas of highest risk.       As described below, the audit 

                                                   
18
    AU § 319 ¶¶ 80, 90.  

19
    AS  No. 5 ¶ 2. 

20
   Id. App. A ¶ A7. 

21
   Id. ¶¶ 11 (“A direct relationship exists between the degree of risk that a material weakness 
   could exist in a particular area of the company’s internal control over financial reporting and 
   the amount of audit attention that should be devoted to that area.  In addition, the risk that a 
   company’s internal control over financial reporting will fail to prevent or detect misstatement 
   caused by fraud usually is higher than the risk of failure to prevent or detect error.  The 
   auditor should focus more of his or her attention on the areas of highest risk.  On the other 
   hand, it is not necessary to test controls that, even if deficient, would not present a reasonable 
   possibility of material misstatement to the financial statements.”), 30 (“As part of identifying 
   significant  accounts  and  disclosures  and  their  relevant  assertions,  the  auditor  also  should 
   determine  the  likely  sources  of  potential  misstatements  that  would  cause  the  financial 
                                                 12 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

team, under Poti’s supervision, identified a source of potential misstatement in Commonwealth’s 
ALLL processes – the senior loan officer’s initial calculation of the ALLL.  The audit team also 
identified a control that they believed addressed the potential for a material misstatement posed by 
the senior loan officer’s role in calculating the ALLL:  the review by the Bank’s vice president for 
credit administration, CFO and the Board of Directors.  However, the audit team failed to test this 
                                                                                                       22
control despite being put on notice before the audit opinion was issued that it was not effective.        
Poti therefore violated AS No. 5, and further la  cked a reasonable basis for   causing  Witt Mares   to 
conclude   that  there  were  no  material  weaknesses  in   Commonwealth’s  internal  control  over 
financial reporting. 

                a.      Relevant PCAOB Standards 

        43.     In an integrated audit, an auditor should design tests of controls to obtain sufficient 
evidence both to support his or her opinion on internal control over financial reporting and to 
                                                                                                      23
support his or her control risk assessments for the purpose of the audit of the financial statements.    

        44.     Auditors also should determine the likely sources of potential misstatements that 
would cause the financial statements to be materially misstated.  One of the ways to do so is “by 
asking  himself  or  herself  ‘what  could  go  wrong?’  within  a  given  significant  account  or 
            24
disclosure.”  

        45.     To further understand the likely sources of potential misstatements, and as part of 
selecting  the  controls  to  test,  the  auditor  should,  among  other  things,  understand  the  flow  of 
transactions related to the relevant assertions, identify the points within the company’s processes at 
which  a  misstatement   could  arise  that  would  be  material,  and  identify  the  controls  that 
                                                                           25
management has implemented to address these potential misstatements.          

        46.     Performing a “walkthrough” is often the most effective way to understand likely 
                                                                                      26
sources of potential misstatements and identify the appropriate controls to test.          Walkthroughs 
require the auditor to “follow[] a transaction from origination through the company’s processes . . . 

                                                                                                                                                             
    statements  to  be  materially  misstated.    The  auditor  might  determine  the  likely  sources  of 
    potential misstatements by asking himself or herself ‘what could go wrong?’ within a given 
    significant account or disclosure.”). 

22
    See  id.  ¶  39  (“The  auditor  should  test  those  controls  that  are  important  to  the  auditor’s 
    conclusion about whether the company’s controls sufficiently address the assessed risk of 
    misstatement to each relevant assertion.”). 

23
    Id. ¶ 7. 

24
    Id. ¶ 30. 

25
    Id. ¶ 34. 

26
    Id. ¶ 37. 

                                                   13 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

until it is reflected in the company’s financial records, using the same documents and information 
                                           27
technology that company personnel use.”  

        47.     The selection of the controls to test, and the evidence needed to evaluate a given 
                                                       28
control, are driven by the auditor’s risk assessment.      “The auditor should focus more of his or her 
attention on the areas of highest risk,” taking into consideration risks of material misstatement due 
                                                              29
to fraud with respect to significant management estimates.          Further, the level of evidence needed 
                                                             30
increases as the risk associated with the control  increases.  

        48.     Some types of tests, by their nature, produce greater evidence of the effectiveness 
                              31
of controls than other tests.     PCAOB standards include a hierarchy of tests.          Inquiry, which 
ordinarily produces the lowest level of evidence, is never alone     sufficient to support a conclusion 
                                     32
about the effectiveness of a control.   

        49.     If there are deficiencies in a company’s internal control over financial reporting 
that, individually or in combination, result in one or more material weaknesses, the auditor “must 
express an adverse opinion on the company’s internal control over financial reporting, unless there 
                                                   33
is a restriction on the scope of the engagement.”  

        50.     The  internal  control  test  work  that  Poti  supervised  did  not  comply  with  the 
foregoing PCAOB standards. 

                b.      Failure to Identify Effective Controls Over The Review of the ALLL 
                        Calculation 

        51.     In order to understand the likely sources of a potential misstatement of the ALLL, a 
manager, under Poti’s supervision, performed a walkthrough of Commonwealth’s internal controls 
over the ALLL.  As described above in Paragraph 24, the manager documented his walkthrough in 
audit work papers that Poti reviewed and identified the senior loan officer’s initial calculation of 
the ALLL as a point in the ALLL processes at which a material misstatement could arise.  The 
manager  also  identified  a  control  that  he  believed  addressed  the  potential  for  a  material 
misstatement posed by the senior loan officer’s role in calculating the ALLL:  the review by the 

                                                 
27
    Id. 

28
    Id. ¶ 10. 

29
    Id. ¶¶ 11, 14. 

30
    Id. ¶¶ 46-47. 

31
    Id. ¶ 50. 

32
    Id. ¶¶ 45, 50. 

33
    Id. ¶ 90. 

                                                   14 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

Bank’s vice president for credit administration, CFO and the Board of Directors.  The manager 
observed  that  the  processes  for  calculating  Commonwealth’s  ALLL  did  not  constitute  “a 
significant  deficiency  due  to  the  review  performed  by  the  CFO,  and  that  [the]  VP  of  Credit 
Administration is heavily involved in the discussions of impaired loans though he does not actually 
do the manual calculation.  Board and Management both review and approve [the] calculation.”  In 
fact, the audit team assessed the ALLL’s control risk to be “moderate” based on “relatively strong 
controls and procedures over the allowance” and identified the review by the Bank’s vice president 
for credit administration, CFO and Board of Directors as one of four key controls over the ALLL. 

       52.    The audit work papers do not reflect that any testing of the design or operating 
effectiveness of the CFO’s, the vice president of credit administration’s, or the Board of Directors’ 
review of the ALLL was performed.  Moreover, other than an assertion that such a review was 
done, the audit work papers do not describe what the CFO, vice president of credit administration, 
or the Board of Directors were required to do or what they actually did to review the ALLL.  Poti 
did not know what steps the CFO, the vice president of credit administration, or the Board of 
Directors took to review  the senior loan officer’s calculation of the ALLL.   In fact, the only 
evidence of review in the audit work papers was a review of the minutes of Commonwealth’s 
Board of Directors to confirm that the minutes reflected the Board’s approval of the ALLL.  Thus, 
though the audit team correctly identified the senior loan officer’s initial calculation of the ALLL 
as creating a potential risk for material misstatement, the audit work does not provide a basis to 
conclude that it did not represent a material weakness. 

       53.    In  fact,  before  Poti  authorized  the  issuance  of  an  unqualified  audit  opinion  on 
Commonwealth’s financial statements and internal control over financial reporting for the year 
ended December 31, 2008,  Commonwealth’s internal auditor  wrote to  Poti  that, based on the 
internal  auditor’s  testing  of  the  control  designed  to  ensure  that  the  vice  president  of  credit 
administration had adequate information to review the ALLL, the internal auditor had determined 
that the review control was not working properly as of year-end 2008 because, among other things, 
the vice president  of  credit  administration  had  not received  information from loan officers  to 
independently assess if loans had become impaired. 

               c.      The  Absence  of  These  Controls  Was  an  Indicator  of  a  Material 
                       Weakness  in   Commonwealth’s   Internal   Control   Over   Financial 
                       Reporting 

       54.    PCAOB  audit  standards  define  a  material  weakness  as  “a  deficiency,  or  a 
combination  of  deficiencies,  in  internal  control  over  financial  reporting,  such  that  there  is  a 
reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial 
                                                                     34
statements  will  not  be  prevented  or  detected  on  a  timely  basis.”    Whether  a  deficiency  or 
combination of deficiencies rises to the level of a material weakness depends on the severity of the 
            35
deficiencies.   The absence of effective controls over the review of the ALLL calculation    should 

                                                   
34
   Id. App. A ¶ A7. 

35
   Id. ¶¶ 62-63. 

                                                15 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

have been treated as an indicator of a material weakness in Commonwealth’s internal control over 
                                               36
financial reporting as of December 31, 2008.         Had Poti tested the control over the review of the 
ALLL calculation, he would have learned that it was not effective    since    one of the key components 
of the control  – the review by the vice president for credit administration  –  was not working 
properly  because  the  vice  president  for  credit  administration  did  not  have  current  guarantor 
financial information to independently assess if loans had become impaired.  Without having tested 
this  important  control  over  the  ALLL,  and  having  information,  including  from  internal  audit, 
indicating that it was deficient, Poti did not have a sufficient basis to conclude that no material 
weaknesses  existed  and  to  issue  an  unqualified  opinion  on  the  Bank’s  internal  control  over 
                   37
financial reporting.   Moreover, the inappropriate conclusion that controls were effective led to an 
unsupported  – and incorrect conclusion that, for purposes of the financial statement audit, the risk 
of material misstatement with respect to the ALLL was only “moderate.” 

       3.      Substantive Testing of Commonwealth’s FAS 114 Loans Violated Professional 
               Standards 

       55.    Adding  to  the  failures  in  connection  with  auditing  Commonwealth’s  internal 
control over financial reporting were Poti’s deficient substantive audit procedures.  Specifically, 
the   audit   team   failed   to   follow   PCAOB   standards   in   reviewing   the   reasonableness   of 
management’s estimates of impairment of the Bank’s FAS 114 loans – one of the riskiest and most 
critical elements of the Bank’s FAS 114 loss estimate calculation.  The audit team found that, in 
estimating the ALLL, Commonwealth relied on the appraisals in the loan files, many of which 
were dated between 2005 and 2007 – over a year before the loan review took place.  Poti was 
aware  of  the  significance  of  the  dates  of  the  appraisals  because  of  his  understanding  that 
“appraisals as current as 6 months ago could be considered stale and not reflective of true market 
values.”  In addition, the audit team found that, for approximately 30% of the total loan sample 
balance  the  team  felt  that  there  was  “[i]nadequate  financial  information  in  [the  loan]  file  to 
determine if additional reserve is necessary.”  Poti reviewed the audit team’s FAS 114 test work 
prior to signing the audit opinion.  By failing to subject the ALLL to appropriate scrutiny, Poti 
violated PCAOB standards, including AU Sections 328 and 342, which address auditing fair value 
and accounting estimates, respectively.  Poti failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter 
to support management’s estimate of the ALLL. 

               a.      Relevant PCAOB Standards 

       56.     Commonwealth’s calculation of the portion of the ALLL attributable to the Bank’s 
FAS 114 loans, which was based largely on an assessment of the value of the underlying collateral, was 
an  estimate.    As  such,  the  auditor’s  responsibility  was  to  obtain  sufficient competent  evidence  to 
provide reasonable assurance that the estimates were reasonable and presented in conformity with the 
                              38
relevant accounting principles.  

                                                 
36
   Id. ¶¶ 69-70. 

37
   Id. ¶ 71. 

38
    AU §§ 328 ¶ 3; 342 ¶ 7.   
                                                  16 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

        57.     In  evaluating  reasonableness,  the  auditor  should  obtain  an  understanding  of  how 
management developed the estimate.  Based on that understanding, the auditor should use one or a 
combination of the following approaches:  (a) review and test the process used by management to 
develop  the  estimate;  (2)  develop  an  independent  expectation  of  the  estimate  to  corroborate  the 
reasonableness of management’s estimate; or (3) review subsequent events or transactions occurring 
                                      39
prior to the date of the auditor’s report. 

        58.     Where management’s estimate is based on a valuation, such as an appraisal, that was 
made  prior  to  the  financial  reporting  date,  the  following  is  an  example  of  a  consideration  in  the 
development of audit procedures:  “obtain[ing] evidence that management has taken into account the 
effect of events, transactions, and changes in circumstances occurring between the date of the fair value 
                                     40
measurement and the reporting date.”    

        59.     Further, as Poti had correctly identified Commonwealth’s ALLL as presenting a risk of 
                                                                                  41
fraud and a higher risk of error, Poti had a heightened responsibility over this area. 

        60.     The risk of material misstatement generally increases where, as here, the relevant 
                               42
account includes an estimate.        While estimates may differ, an unreasonable estimate should be 
                                  43
considered a likely misstatement.    

        61.     The  auditor  should  be  thorough  in  his  or  her  search  for  evidential  matter  and 
                            44
unbiased in its evaluation.     The auditor cannot express the conclusion in the auditor’s standard 
report that the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, an entity’s financial 
position, results of operations, and cash flows in conformity with generally accepted accounting 
                                                                                                  45
principles without obtaining sufficient competent evidential matter to support that conclusion.     

                                                   
39
    AU § 342 ¶ 10;   see also AU § 328 ¶ 23. 

40
    AU § 328 ¶ 25.   

41
    AU § 312 ¶ 17 (“Higher risk may cause the auditor to expand  the extent of procedures 
    applied, apply procedures closer to or as of year-end, particularly in critical audit areas, or 
    modify the nature of procedures to obtain more persuasive evidence.”). 

42
    Id. ¶ 36. 

43
    Id. 

44
    AU § 326 ¶ 25;    see also id. (“In developing his or her opinion, the auditor should consider 
    relevant evidential matter regardless of whether it appears to corroborate or to contradict the 
    assertions in the financial statements.”). 

45
    See AU § 508 ¶ 7 (“The auditor’s standard report states that the financial statements present 
    fairly, in all material respects, an entity’s financial position, results of operations, and cash 
    flows in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.  This conclusion may be 
                                                  17 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

                                                                                         46
       62.    Finally, auditors are required to clearly document the work they perform.       “Audit 
documentation  should  be  prepared  in  sufficient  detail  to  provide  a  clear  understanding  of  its 
                                                 47
purpose, source, and the conclusions reached.”     “The auditor must document the procedures 
performed, evidence obtained, and conclusions reached with respect to relevant financial statement 
           48
assertions.”     “Audit  documentation  must  clearly  demonstrate  that  the  work  was  in  fact 
            49
performed.”   “Because audit documentation is the written record that provides the support for the 
representations in the auditor’s report, it should,” among other things, “[d]emonstrate that the 
                                                         50
engagement complied with the standards of the PCAOB.”  

       63.    The substantive audit procedures Poti designed and implemented fell short of these 
standards. 

               b.     Failure to Obtain Sufficient Audit Evidence 

       64.    Commonwealth estimated the value of the collateral underlying the Bank’s FAS 
114 loans on a loan-by-loan basis because the Bank’s FAS 114 portfolio was made up of large, 
non-homogenous loans.  Therefore, the audit team performed a loan-by-loan review of a sample of 
the  Bank’s  FAS  114  loan  portfolio  to  test  whether  management’s  estimates  of  value  were 
reasonable.    However, the substantive  audit procedures and the  evidence obtained  from those 
procedures were insufficient to meet PCAOB standards. 

       65.    As part of Witt Mares’ testing of Commonwealth’s FAS 114 loans, the audit team 
selected  a  sample  of  Commonwealth’s  loan  portfolio  for  in-depth  review  that  represented 
approximately 14% of the total loan balance, and approximately 55% of the ALLL, at year-end 
2008.   After  selecting  the  sample  of  loans  to  review,  the  audit  team  examined  the  loan  file 
documentation, estimated the specific allowance or allocation needed for each loan, and assessed 
the reasonableness of management’s estimate of the ALLL comparing the estimated ALLL to the 
recorded ALLL.  However, as documented in the audit work paper, for a significant portion of the 
loans reviewed, there was inadequate information to perform this assessment. 

       66.    Witt  Mares’  2008  loan  review  found  that  approximately  30%  of  the  total  loan 
sample balance  and approximately  5% of the ALLL,  respectively, had  “[i]nadequate financial 
information in [the loan] file to determine if additional reserve is necessary;” approximately 75% 

                                                                                                                                                             
   expressed  only  when  the  auditor  has  formed  such  an  opinion  on  the  basis  of  an  audit 
   performed in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.”). 

46
   See AS No. 3. 

47
   Id. ¶ 4. 

48
   Id. ¶ 6. 

49
   Id. 

50
   Id. ¶ 5. 

                                                18 
---------------------Page 19---------------------

of  the  total  loan  sample  balance  and  52%  of  the  ALLL  consisted  of  loans  whose  files  were 
missing, or contained stale, guarantor financial information; and approximately 33% of the total 
loan sample balance and approximately 37% of the ALLL consisted of loans whose files contained 
appraisals that were dated between 2005 and 2007 – dates more than a year before the loan review 
took place.  In short, the files lacked critical information necessary to assess the FAS 114 loans and 
their reserves. 

       67.    Despite  the  critical  lack  of  information  needed  to  assess  the  reasonableness  of 
management’s   loss   estimates   on   the   FAS   114   loans,   Witt   Mares   auditors   agreed   with 
management’s loss estimates for all of the loans in the loan sample except one and concluded that 
“the Bank appears to have enough reserved to sustain any immediate short term losses.”   That 
conclusion was not supported by the available audit evidence.  To the contrary, the audit evidence 
would lead a reasonable auditor to the opposite conclusion – that the ALLL was not a reasonable 
estimate   because   there   was   not   sufficient   information   in   the   loan   files   to   evaluate   its 
reasonableness. 

               c.      Failure to Adequately Document Audit Work 

       68.    In addition to the audit failures noted above, Poti failed to adequately document 
            51
audit work.    Witt Mares’ loan work papers do not contain any explanation as to how the audit 
team  evaluated  whether  management  took  into  account  the  effect  of  deteriorating  market 
conditions that had occurred between the appraisal dates for the approximately 33% of the total 
loan sample balance and approximately 37% of the ALLL that consisted of loans whose files 
contained appraisals that were dated between 2005 and 2007 – dates more than a year before the 
loan review took place.  In addition, the work papers do not explain how Witt Mares was able to 
develop an independent estimate of the ALLL given that  approximately 30% of the total loan 
sample balance and approximately  5% of the ALLL,  respectively, had “[i]nadequate financial 
information in [the loan] file to determine if additional reserve is necessary.” 

D.     FINDINGS 

       69.    Based  on  the  foregoing,  the  Commission  finds  that  Poti  engaged  in  improper 
professional  conduct  within  the  meaning  of  Rule  102(e)(1)(ii)  of  the  Commission’s  Rules  of 
                                         52
Practice [17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(1)(ii)].    Specifically, the Commission finds that Poti engaged in 
repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable professional 
standards that indicate a lack of competence to practice before the Commission.    

                                                    

                                                    

                                                 
51
   Id. 

52
   See  also  Rule  102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2)  (defining  improper  professional  conduct)  [17  C.F.R.  
   § 201.102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2)]. 

                                                 19 
---------------------Page 20---------------------

                                               IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Poti’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.      Poti is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 

       B.      After two (2) years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention:  Office of the Chief 
Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
of  any  public  company’s  financial  statements  that  are  filed  with  the  Commission.    Such  an 
application  must  satisfy  the  Commission  that  Respondent’s  work  in  his  practice  before  the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company for 
which  he  works  or  in  some  other  acceptable  manner,  as  long  as  he/she  practices  before  the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 

               2.     an   independent   accountant.      Such   an   application   must   satisfy   the 
Commission that: 

                      (a)     Respondent,   or   the   public   accounting   firm   with   which   he   is 
associated, is registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and 
such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the  PCAOB, 
and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the PCAOB (other 
than reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      (d)     Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Respondent 
appears or practices before the Commission as an  independent accountant, to comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the PCAOB, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   

        

        

        

                                               20 
---------------------Page 21---------------------

       D.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, if 
state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an 
application  on  its  other  merits.    The  Commission’s  review  may  include  consideration  of,  in 
addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, 
integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

       By the Commission. 

 

                                                    Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                    Secretary 

                                               21 
