---------------------Page 1---------------------

                         UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                    Before the 
                  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 77473 / March 30, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3761 / March 30, 2016 
 
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940 
Release No. 4360 / March 30, 2016 
 
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940 
Release No. 32060 / March 30, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17186 
 
                                          ORDER INSTITUTING  PUBLIC 
In the Matter of                          ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE -AND-
                                          DESIST PROCEEDINGS, PURSUANT TO  
      BURRILL CAPITAL                     SECTIONS  4C AND 21C OF THE 
      MANAGEMENT , LLC; G.                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934       ,  
      STEVEN BURRILL,  CPA;               SECTIONS  203(e), 203(f) AND 203(k) OF THE 
      VICTOR A. HEBERT, ESQ .;            INVESTMENT ADVISERS  ACT OF 1940 , 
      and HELENA C. SEN, CPA ,            SECTION 9(b)  OF THE  INVESTMENT 
                                          COMPANY ACT OF 1940  , AND RULE 
Respondent s.                             102(e)(1)(iii) OF THE COMMISSION’S 
                                                                
                                           
                                                                          
                                                    
                                            
 
                                        I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, 
instituted pursuant to Sections 203(e) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 
(“Advisers Act”) and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company 
Act”) against Burrill Capital Management, LLC, and pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), Sections 203(f) and 203(k) of the Advisers 
Act, Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act, and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Rules of Practice against G. Steven Burrill, CPA, Victor A. Hebert, Esq., and Helena C. Sen, CPA 
                              1  
(collectively, “Respondents”).    
 
                                                 II. 
                                                   
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondents consent 
to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings 
Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sections 203(e), 203(f) 
and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act 
of 1940 and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and 
Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below. 
                                                   
                                                III. 
 
                                                                                   2
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds     that :  
 
                                             Summary 

       1.        These proceedings concern the misappropriation of more than $18 million in investor 
funds by Burrill Capital Management, LLC (“BCM”), a San Francisco-based exempt reporting 
adviser, and its CEO, G. Steven Burrill (“Burrill”).  From December 2007 through August 2013, 
Burrill, through BCM, misappropriated approximately $18 million under the guise of “advanced 
                                                 
1
  Section 4C provides, in relevant part that: 
 
       The Commission may … deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the privilege 
       of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . 
       (3) to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any 
       provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
       The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
       practicing before it . . . to any person who is found…to have willfully violated, or 
       willfully aided and abetted the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or 
       the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
2
  The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents   ’ Offers of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
 
                                                 2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

management fees” from Burrill Life Sciences Capital Fund III (“Fund III”), a $283 million venture 
capital fund advised by BCM.  Burrill took this money to cover cash shortages in his non-Fund III 
related Burrill & Company businesses, pay employee salaries, and to support his lavish lifestyle, 
including expensive vacations and gifts.   

       2.        By mid-2013, Burrill had misappropriated approximately $13 million more in 
management fees from Fund III than it was required to pay in fees over the entire life of the fund.  
Burrill was aided in his scheme by Victor Hebert, Esq. (“Hebert”), Chief Administrative Officer, 
Managing Director and Chief Legal Officer for the Burrill entities, and Helena Sen, CPA (“Sen”), 
the Controller and most senior accounting person for the Burrill entities.   

       3.        In August 2013, several members of Fund III’s Investment Committee discovered the 
misappropriation and notified Fund III’s investors.    
 
                                        Respondents 

       4.      Burrill Capital Management, LLC (“BCM”), is a Delaware limited liability 
company and filed reports as an exempt reporting adviser (“ERA”) with the Commission from 
April 2012 to January 2015, when it withdrew its ERA registration.  BCM was wholly owned by 
Steven Burrill and had its principal place of business in San Francisco, California.  BCM acted as 
the investment adviser to several venture capital funds operated by Burrill, including Fund III.  
BCM is currently defunct and is no longer authorized to do business in California.   
 
       5.        G. Steven Burrill, CPA, age 71, resides in San Francisco, California.  Burrill is a 
CPA licensed in California (inactive since 1998; delinquent status from 2014).  From 1977 to 
1993, he was an audit partner at a major auditing firm, leading the high/tech manufacturing group 
of the firm.  Burrill left the auditing firm in 1993 and formed Burrill & Craves, which later became 
Burrill & Company, LLC (“Burrill & Co.”).  Initially formed to provide advice to companies on 
business strategy and partnerships, the firm, among other things, raised venture capital funds 
focused on the biotechnology industry.  Burrill owned 100% of Burrill & Co. and BCM.  Burrill 
was a member of Fund III’s General Partner.   

       6.        Victor A. Hebert, age 78, resides in Piedmont, California and is a licensed attorney 
in California.  Hebert worked at Burrill & Co. from October 2008 to February 2014 as Chief 
Administrative Officer, Managing Director, and Chief Legal Counsel.  From 2009 through 2013, 
he also served as the Chair of Fund III’s Investment Committee and oversaw Burrill & Co.’s 
accounting department.  From October 2011 until he was removed, Hebert was a member of Fund 
III’s General Partner.  Prior to joining Burrill & Co., Hebert practiced law with a San Francisco 
based law firm for 46 years, where he was a partner for over 25 of those years.  That firm dissolved 
in 2008.   
       7.        Helena C. Sen, CPA, age 62, resides in Orinda, California.  Sen was a CPA 
licensed in California from 1989 (inactive since early in her employment with Burrill & Co.; 
surrendered her license in November 2015).  From April 2006 through March 2014, Sen was 
Burrill & Co.’s Controller and the most senior person in its accounting department.  Sen reported 
to Hebert in his role as Chief Administrative Officer.   

                                                3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                     Other Relevant Entities 

       8.        Burrill Life Sciences Capital Fund III, LP (“Fund III” or the “Fund”) is a 
private pooled investment vehicle and a Delaware limited partnership formed by Burrill in 2006.  
Fund III is a $283 million, 10-year venture capital fund that invests in life sciences companies, 
globally, from early stage companies to public companies.    Burrill Life Sciences Capital Fund III 
Partners, LP was the General Partner (“GP”) of Fund III during the relevant time period and BCM 
served as Fund III’s investment adviser.  Fund III was initially set to expire in February 2016, but 
was extended in March 2015, to December 2017.  

       9.        Burrill Life Sciences Capital Fund III Partners, LP, (“GP”) is a Delaware 
limited partnership and was the General Partner of Fund III during the relevant time period.  It was 
removed as the General Partner, effective March 2014.  The members of the GP were Burrill, 
Hebert (from October 2011) and a group of three other individuals who were not implicated in 
Burrill’s scheme.  The GP was entitled to Fund III’s management fees, or alternatively, it could 
designate another entity to receive the fees.  In exchange for management fees, the GP was 
responsible for managing, controlling and conducting the affairs of Fund III.  The GP selected 
BCM to provide advisory services to Fund III.   

       10.     Burrill & Company, LLC (“Burrill & Co.”) is a Delaware limited liability 
company created in 1993 and is wholly owned by Burrill.  Burrill & Co. was the holding company 
for Burrill’s several other business ventures, including his media group, merchant banking group 
and Burrill’s personal ownership interests in the Burrill venture capital funds, including Fund III.  
Burrill & Co. is currently nonoperational.  Burrill & Co. did not participate in the management of 
Fund III. 

                                              Facts 

     A.  Background 
 
       11.        In 2006, Burrill formed Fund III, a $283 million venture capital fund focusing on 
investments in life sciences companies, globally, from early stage companies to public companies 
(known as “portfolio companies”).  Fund III had a 10-year lifespan, and originally was set to expire 
in February 2016.  Fund III is structured as a Limited Partnership, with Burrill Life Sciences 
Capital Fund III Partners, LP serving as its GP.  Fund III’s investors are its limited partners, with 
the six largest investors making up the Limited Partners Advisory Committee (“LPAC”).  The 
investors include state pension funds, public companies and institutional investors.  
        
       12.        Fund III is governed by a Limited Partnership Agreement (“LPA”), which 
delineates, among other things, the manner and amount of management fees the GP is entitled to 
from Fund III for managing the fund.  According to the LPA, the GP (or its designee) is entitled to 
2% of committed capital for six years payable on the first day of each fiscal quarter for services to 
be rendered during that quarter (and then 2% of cost basis of the investments, plus reserves, after 
the initial 6 years).  From the management fee, as enumerated in the LPA, the GP was to cover 
expenses in connection with the management of the fund (e.g., salaries, travel, wages, rent).  

                                                 4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

Although Fund III’s GP was technically entitled to receive the management fee, in practice this fee 
was deposited in several different Burrill entities’ bank accounts, primarily BCM’s.  The LPA did 
not authorize Burrill to take management fees in advance, nor did it authorize Burrill to take loans 
from Fund III.  In addition, the LPA explicitly prohibited any actions that would be detrimental to 
the activities and affairs of the fund and required that all conflicts of interest promptly be disclosed 
to the LPAC.  Burrill signed the LPA in his capacity as a member of the GP.   
        
       13.        At the outset of Fund III, each of its investors committed a specific amount of 
capital and paid a percentage of this capital commitment to make initial investments in Fund III’s 
portfolio companies.  The investors contractually agreed to pay the remainder of their capital 
commitment over the life of Fund III through periodic capital call demands made by the GP.  
According to the LPA, this capital would then be used to invest in Fund III’s portfolio companies 
and pay Fund III management fees as well as certain other Fund III expenses.   
        
       14.        From late 2008 through early 2014, members of Fund III’s Investment Committee, 
which was comprised of Burrill, Hebert, and three other individuals, met multiple times a month to 
determine which portfolio companies Fund III should invest in as well as determine the amount of 
capital needed, in order to make additional follow-on investments in the portfolio companies.  
After these meetings, Burrill and Sen, on behalf of Fund III’s GP, periodically sent capital call 
demand letters to Fund III’s limited partners requiring them to fund the remaining portions of their 
capital commitment so that Fund III could make additional investments in the portfolio companies.   
        
       15.  Burrill operated a number of entities under the Burrill enterprise including other 
venture capital funds as well as merchant banking and media businesses.  Hebert and Sen were 
employed by BCM and, although they provided services to BCM and Fund III, they also provided 
services to other Burrill-related entities.  Burrill used BCM as the operating entity through which 
he received income from, and paid expenses for, all of the various Burrill-related entities – 
including expenses that were wholly unrelated to Fund III’s business.  He also took draws from 
BCM, and charged personal expenses to, BCM, which were booked as additions to his draws.  
        
       16.  BCM was Fund III’s investment adviser.  Burrill wholly owned, and controlled, BCM.  
As an investment adviser, BCM owed a fiduciary duty to its clients, one of which was Fund III.  
This required BCM to act in the utmost good faith, and put the interests of its clients ahead of its 
own.  See SEC v. Capital Gains Research Bureau, Inc., 375 U.S. 180 (1963).  This is so even 
though BCM advised venture capital funds and filed reports as an “exempt” reporting adviser.   
        
   B.   Burrill Misappropriates, and Hebert and Sen Aid and Abet the Misappropriation of, 
   Fund III’s Money  
 
       17.        In late 2007, BCM began to face cash flow shortages.  According to BCM’s 
accounting records, the expenses for the Burrill-related entities, as well as Burrill’s personal 
expenses, far exceeded the revenue his businesses were generating.  In late 2007, Sen met with 
Burrill and told him that due to BCM’s cash deficit, BCM was unable to make payroll or pay 
BCM’s expenses for that period.  Burrill instructed Sen to take $400,000 from Fund III to make up 

                                                 5 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

the cash shortfall and to treat the transaction as an “advance on management fees” that the GP 
expected to earn in the first quarter of 2008.  Burrill told Sen the advance management fees were 
“strictly a timing issue” (because BCM was entitled to take the management fees four days later on 
January 1, 2008).    
        
       18.        Sen had read the LPA, and understood that Fund III was supposed to pay 
management fees to the GP at the beginning of each quarter for services to be provided to the fund 
during that quarter.  Nonetheless, at Burrill’s direction, Sen transferred money from Fund III’s 
bank account to BCM.  She recorded the transfer as a “prepaid expense” in Fund III’s books and 
records.   
        
       19.        In mid-2008, Sen told Burrill that BCM was again short of cash, and unable to pay 
its expenses.  BCM’s expenses included salaries and Burrill’s draws and personal expenses.  
Burrill told Sen to cover the shortfall by taking an advance on management fees from Fund III.  
Sen followed Burrill’s instruction and again booked the management fee advance to the general 
ledger as a prepaid expense.  From that point forward through July 2013, on many occasions when 
BCM faced a cash shortfall in a quarter, Sen acted under Burrill’s directive to cover the deficit by 
taking money from Fund III, because it – as compared to all of Burrill’s other entities – had the 
most money available to it in the form of committed, but still-uncalled capital.   
        
       20.        Hebert joined Burrill & Co. in October 2008 as Chief Administrative Officer, Chief 
Legal Officer and Managing Director, and learned about Burrill’s practice of taking money from 
Fund III to fund BCM’s cash shortages.  Sen began reporting to Hebert in late 2008 and in the first 
part of 2009, she told Hebert about the practice of taking money from Fund III to meet BCM’s 
cash flow shortages, including Sen’s and Hebert’s own salaries and Burrill’s draws.  Hebert never 
told Sen to stop taking money from Fund III, and the practice did not stop until Fund III ran out of 
money. 
 
   C.   Cash Flow Meetings 
        
       21.        From early 2009 through July 2013, Sen, Hebert and Burrill met frequently to 
discuss the Burrill enterprise’s cash flow.  At these meetings, Sen informed Hebert and Burrill 
about the various Burrill entities’ cash flow deficits.  The three discussed the cash shortages and 
decided to cure them by continuing to take money from Fund III, and book it to the general ledger 
as prepaid expenses.  Sen regularly informed Burrill and Hebert at the cash flow meetings how 
much money they had taken under the guise of advanced management fees and also kept track of 
the transfers on a document referred to internally as a “cash needs spreadsheet”.  BCM’s 
accounting manager provided these spreadsheets to Burrill when he signed the Fund III cash 
transfer authorizations.  On at least one occasion, Burrill directed Sen to take money from Fund III 
and transfer it to his and his wife’s joint bank account, when there were no other funds available to 
meet Burrill’s personal monthly draw, which he collected for providing services to Fund III and his 
other non-Fund III related entities.  In response to Burrill’s directive, Sen transferred money from 
Fund III to BCM and then to Burrill and his wife’s joint bank account.  
        

                                                 6 
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

       22.        By approximately the first quarter of 2012, the amount of money Burrill had taken 
from Fund III exceeded the total amount of management fees that the GP could earn over the life 
of the fund, which was set to expire in February 2016.  At that point, in Q1 2012, no further 
management fees were due to the GP from Fund III.  Burrill, Sen and Hebert, continued to take 
money from Fund III under the guise of advance management fees.  By May 2013, the money 
Burrill had taken exceeded the total management fees that could be earned over Fund III’s life by 
at least $13 million – approximately four years’ worth of fees.  Burrill used the $13 million to pay 
for, among other things, salaries, rent, charitable contributions, Burrill’s family vacation to St. 
Barth’s and Paris, jewelry, gifts and travel for Burrill’s girlfriend, gifts for Burrill’s wife, private 
jets and private car service for Burrill and his family members. 
 
      D.   Capital Calls and The “Cushion” 
        
       23.        Not only did Burrill, Hebert, and Sen misappropriate or aid and abet the 
misappropriation of Fund III’s existing cash, they also asked investors for more money than was 
needed for Fund III’s follow-on investments so that they could continue to fund BCM’s operations.  
From early 2009 through approximately early 2014, Hebert led Fund III’s weekly Investment 
Committee meetings.  After the meetings, Hebert told Sen how much money the committee agreed 
was needed for follow-on investments so that Sen could prepare the capital call letters.  Sen drafted 
the capital call letters, which specifically stated that the “proceeds of the capital call would be used 
for [a particular investment]” or for general “follow-on investments” in Fund III’s portfolio 
companies.  With Burrill’s permission, Sen inserted Burrill’s electronic signature into the capital 
call letters and sent them to the investors.   
        
       24.        In February 2009, Sen began inflating the amounts included in the capital call 
demand letters above what the Investment Committee determined was needed for follow-on 
investments and the then due management fees and expenses.  Sen called the inflated excess 
portion of the capital call the “cushion.”  This “cushion” ranged from $50,000 to $1.5 million on 
the applicable capital calls.  Sen, knowing Burrill expected her to have excess cash on hand to 
advance fees, added a “cushion” so there would be sufficient money in Fund III’s bank account for 
Burrill to pay, among other things, BCM’s operating expenses (including her and Hebert’s salaries 
as well as non-Fund III related expenses) and Burrill’s draws, personal expenses and Fund 
management fees and expenses.   
        
       25.        Sen told Hebert about the excess portion of the capital call in 2009.  Sen, Hebert 
and Burrill discussed the excess at the cash flow meetings, after which, Burrill, with Hebert’s 
knowledge, called in millions of dollars in additional capital from Fund III’s investors.  Burrill and 
Hebert knew, or were reckless in not knowing, that the money called from Fund III investors 
would be used in part to continue funding BCM’s cash flow shortages, significant portions of 
which were wholly unrelated to Fund III’s business and included propping up Burrill’s other 
business ventures that were operating at a loss.  Neither of them disclosed the “cushion” to Fund 
III’s investors, its Investment Committee, or any other members of Fund III’s GP.  Moreover, 
Burrill and Sen knew, or should have known, that the capital call letters misled investors into 

                                                 7 
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

thinking that the capital demanded was used only for follow-on investments and currently due 
management fees and expenses.  
 
       26.        From 2008 until August 2011, in addition to preparing the capital call letters, Sen 
signed bank transfers authorizing cash transfers from Fund III to BCM to cover BCM’s expenses 
(as well as Burrill’s personal expenses).  In August 2011, Sen stopped signing the transfer 
authorizations because she was uncomfortable with how high the advanced fee balance had grown 
(approximately $12 million).  From that point forward, Burrill became the primary signer of the 
bank transfer authorizations.  
 
      E.   Delayed Milestone Payments to Investors  
 
       27.        Burrill, with Sen’s assistance, also funded BCM’s cash deficits by delaying the 
distributions of portfolio company milestone payments and stock payments to Fund III’s investors.  
Fund III periodically received payments from Fund III’s portfolio companies as they met specific 
predetermined milestones.  Burrill and Sen, on behalf of the GP, were responsible for distributing 
those payments to Fund III’s investors based on their ownership percentage in Fund III, but Burrill 
– with Sen’s assistance – instead used that money to pay BCM’s expenses, including expenses that 
were wholly unrelated to Fund III’s business.     
        
       28.        In September 2012, Sen emailed Burrill that BCM had no cash available to make 
payroll and stated “[t]here is only one other option, which is to delay a distribution” of the 
approximately $1 million in milestone payments paid into Fund III and awaiting distribution to 
investors.  Burrill directed Sen to withdraw the milestone payments from Fund III, and she did.  
Sen recorded the withdrawal in Fund III’s prepaid expense account.  The following month, in order 
to make the required milestone payments to Fund III investors, Sen added a $1 million “cushion” 
to the October 31, 2012 capital call demand.  Burrill and Sen then used the “cushion” to pay the 
investors their milestone payment with the investors’ own money.  None of this was disclosed to 
investors.  
 
    F.   The Scheme is Revealed to Investors 
                    
       29.        In late August of 2013, Fund III’s Investment Committee members became aware 
that virtually all the committed capital in Fund III had already been called in and spent.  They 
called an emergency meeting of Fund III’s Investment Committee.  
        
       30.        On September 4, 2013, Burrill and Hebert met with the Investment Committee to 
discuss Fund III’s cash reserves.  At Burrill’s direction, Sen created a spreadsheet showing how the 
approximately $18 million taken under the guise of advanced fees was spent (including Burrill’s 
personal expenses).   During the meeting, Burrill admitted that he had taken money from Fund III 
to develop other venture funds under the Burrill brand.  He said he owed Fund III approximately 
$7.8 million and Sen passed out a spreadsheet showing approximately $7.8 million was spent on 
other venture funds’ development costs.  Burrill directed Sen not to hand out the other portion of 
the spreadsheet which detailed how the remainder of the fees were spent, which included Burrill’s 
personal expenses.  
                                                8 
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

         
        31.        Before October 2013, Fund III’s investors did not know that Burrill had 
misappropriated approximately $18 million from the Fund under the guise of “advance 
management fees,” nor did they know that Burrill had taken $13 million more from Fund III than 
the GP was entitled to earn over the entire life of the Fund.  On October 27, 2013, three of the 
Investment Committee members sent a letter to the Fund III LPAC and informed them about the 
misappropriation.  The LPAC subsequently removed the GP (which included Burrill and Hebert) 
from managing Fund III, effective March 2014.  In March of 2014, Hebert resigned from Burrill & 
Co. and Sen’s position with Burrill & Co. was eliminated.  
 
        32.     All told, Burrill used approximately $4.6 million of the money he misappropriated 
from Fund III to pay for his cash draws and personal expenses, including family vacations to St. 
Barth’s and Paris, jewelry from Tiffany&Co., travel, charitable contributions, private jets, private 
cars, and gifts.   
 
                                               Violations 
 
        33.     As a result of the conduct described above, BCM and Burrill willfully violated, and 
Hebert willfully aided and abetted and caused, BCM’s and Burrill’s violations of Section 206(1) of 
the Advisers Act which prohibits an investment adviser from employing any device, scheme, or 
artifice to defraud any client or prospective client.  
         
        34.     As a result of the conduct described above, BCM and Burrill willfully violated, and 
Hebert and Sen willfully aided and abetted and caused, BCM’s and Burrill’s violations of Section 
206(2) of the Advisers Act, which prohibits an investment adviser from engaging in any 
transaction, practice or course of business which operates as a fraud or deceit upon any client or 
                   3
prospective client.   
 
        3 5 .        As a result of the conduct described above, BCM and Burrill willfully violated, and 
Hebert and  Sen willfully aided and abetted and caused,    BCM’s and Burrill’s violations of Section 
206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-8 thereunder, which prohibit an investment adviser to 
a pooled investment vehicle from making any untrue statement of a material fact necessary to 
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not 
misleading to any investor or prospective investor in the pooled investment vehicle, or engaging in 
any act, practice, or course of business which is fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative with respect 
to an investor or prospective investor in a pooled investment vehicle.   A violation of 206(4) and 
the rules thereunder does not require scienter.  SEC v. Steadman, 967 F. 2d 636, 647 (D.C. Cir. 
1999). 
 

                                                 
3
  Scienter is required for violations of Section 206(1), but   negligence is sufficient for violations 
of   Sections 206(2) or 206(4) and Rule 206(4)   - 8 thereunder.  See   Steadman v. SEC  , 603 F.2d 
1126, 1134 (5th Cir. 1979);   SEC v. Daifotis  , 874 F. Supp. 2d    870, 887 (N.D. Cal. June 12, 2012).     
                                                    9 
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

                                                IV. 
 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
 
       Accordingly, pursuant to Sections 203(e), 203(f) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers 
Act , and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act and Sections 4C and 21C of the Exchange 
Act and 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice,  it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.     Respondents BCM, Burrill and Hebert cease and desist from committing or causing 
               any violations and any future violations of Sections 206(1) of the Advisers Act. 
                 
       B.     Respondents BCM, Burrill, Hebert and Sen cease and desist from committing or 
               causing any violations and any future violations of Section 206(2) of the Advisers 
               Act. 
 
       C.      Respondents BCM, Burrill, Hebert and Sen cease and desist from committing or 
               causing any violations and any future violations of Section 206(4) of the Advisers 
               Act and Rules 206(4)-8 thereunder. 
 
       D.      Respondents Burrill, Hebert and Sen be, and hereby are: 
                        
                       (1) barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, 
                          municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or 
                          nationally recognized statistical rating organization; 
                           
                       (2) prohibited from serving or acting as an employee, officer, director, 
                          member of an advisory board, investment adviser or depositor of, or 
                          principal underwriter for, a registered investment company or affiliated 
                          person of such investment adviser, depositor, or principal underwriter.   
 
       E.      Respondent BCM is censured.   
        
       F.        Respondents Burrill and Sen are denied the privilege of appearing or practicing 
before the Commission as accountants. 
        
       G.        Respondent Hebert is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an attorney.     
        
       H.        Any reapplication for association by the Respondents will be subject to the 
applicable laws and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned 
upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the 
following:  (a) any disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission 
has fully or partially waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the 

                                                10 
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization 
arbitration award to a customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for 
the Commission order; and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or 
not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order. 
 
       I.      Respondents Burrill and BCM shall, jointly and severally, pay disgorgement of 
$4,600,000.00, and prejudgment interest of $185,000.00 to the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (for a total of $4,785,000.00).  $2,125,000.00 is due within 10 days of the date of this 
Order.  The remaining $2,660,000.00 is due within 90 days of the date of this Order; provided that 
any payments Respondents Burrill and BCM make directly to Fund III during this 90-day period, 
reflected by evidence acceptable to the Commission staff, will be credited, dollar-for-dollar, 
towards the satisfaction of Respondents Burrill’s and BCM’s disgorgement and prejudgment 
interest obligations.   
        
       J.      To the extent payment of $4,600,000.00 in disgorgement and $185,000.00 
prejudgment interest is not paid to the Commission (or credited dollar-for-dollar as provided in 
Paragraph I) within 90 days of this Order, all amounts not paid (or credited) will remain due and 
payable to the Commission and additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 
600 from the date of the Order.   
 
       K.      Respondents Burrill and BCM shall, jointly and severally, within 10 days of the 
entry of this Order, pay a civil money penalty in the amount of $1,000,000.00 to the Securities and 
Exchange Commission.  If timely payment of a civil money penalty is not made, additional interest 
shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717. 
        
       L.        Respondent Hebert shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil 
money penalty in the amount of $185,000.00 to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  If 
timely payment of a civil money penalty is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 
U.S.C. § 3717.  
        
       M.       Respondent Sen shall pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of $90,000.00 to 
the Securities and Exchange Commission.  If timely payment of a civil money penalty is not made, 
additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717.  Payment shall be made in the 
following installments:  (1) Sen will make an initial payment of $35,000 within 10 days of the 
entry of the Order; (2) within 90 days of the entry of this Order, $13,750; (3) within 180 days of 
the entry of this Order, $13,750; (4) within 270 days of the entry of this Order, $13,750; and (4) 
within a year of the entry of this Order, $13,750.  If any payment is not made by the date the 
payment is required by this Order, the entire outstanding unpaid balance of civil penalties, plus any 
additional interest accrued pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, shall be due and payable immediately, 
without further application.    
        
Payment must be made in one of the following ways:   
 

                                                11 
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

               (1)    Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                      will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
                
               (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
                
               (3)     Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
                
               Enterprise Services Center 
               Accounts Receivable Branch 
               HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
               6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
               Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying BCM, 
Burrill, Hebert and/or Sen as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these 
proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Erin Schneider, 
Associate Regional Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 44 
Montgomery Street, Suite 2800, San Francisco, CA 94104.   
 
       N.      For good cause shown, Commission staff may extend any of the payment dates set 
forth in this Order.     
 
       O.      Pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, a Fair 
Fund is created for the disgorgement, prejudgment interest and penalties referenced in paragraphs I, 
K, L and M above.  Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order 
shall be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To 
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that in any Related Investor 
Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or reduction of 
any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil 
penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset").  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a 
Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that they shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order 
granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of 
the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be 
deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil 
penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" 
means a private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more 
investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the 
Commission in this proceeding. 
 
       P.      After receipt of the disgorgement, interest, and penalties referenced in paragraphs I, 
K and L above (distribution fund), the Commission shall, within 30 days after receipt of the funds, 

                                               12 
 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

pay such funds to Fund III which suffered a net harm as a result of the violations described in this 
Order.  With respect to payments received pursuant to paragraph M, the Commission shall pay such 
funds to Fund III on a timely basis.  Commission staff will seek the appointment of a tax 
administrator as the ordered payment constitutes a qualified settlement fund under section 468B(g) 
of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. § 468B(g), and related regulations, 26 C.F.R. §§ 1.468B-1 
through 1.468B-5. Taxes, if any, and related administrative expenses will be paid from the 
distribution fund.  
 
       Q.      After receipt of the penalty payments referenced in paragraph M above (distribution 
fund) and any additional payment received pursuant to paragraph M, the Commission shall, on a 
timley basis, pay such funds to Fund III which suffered a net harm as a result of the violations 
described in this Order.  Commission staff will seek the appointment of a tax administrator as the 
ordered payments constitute a qualified settlement fund under section 468B(g) of the Internal 
Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. § 468B(g), and related regulations, 26 C.F.R. §§ 1.468B-1 through 
1.468B-5. Taxes, if any, and related administrative expenses will be paid from the distribution fund. 
 
                                                V. 

       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by 
Respondents, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other 
amounts due by Respondents under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree 
or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by 
Respondents of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set 
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 

 
                    
       By the Commission. 
 
 
                                                      Brent J. Fields 
                                                      Secretary 
 

                                                13 
 
