---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                                  
                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                         Before the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 70564 / September 30, 2013 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT                   
Release No. 3501 / September 30, 2013 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15535 
                                                  ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                  ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE- 
                                                  AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT 
In the Matter of                                  TO SECTIONS 4C AND 21C OF THE 
                                                  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
                                                   AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
Malcolm L. Pollard, CPA and                       COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
Malcolm L. Pollard, Inc.                          MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                                  REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-
Respondents.                                      AND-DESIST ORDER 
 
 
                                                   
 
                                             I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate  that 
public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
Malcolm L. Pollard, CPA (“Pollard”) and Malcolm L. Pollard, Inc. (the “firm” or “Pollard, Inc.”) 
(collectively “Respondents”) pursuant to Sections 4C1
                                                   and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.2
                                                                                  
                                                 
1
 Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
      The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the 
   privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . (1) not to 
   possess the requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to 
   have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully violated, or willfully 
   aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations 
   thereunder. 
 
2
 Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                 II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them  and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent s consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making 
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-    and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth 
below.   
 
                                                III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent  s’ Offer, the Commission finds  3
                                                                                    that:  
 
                                           SUMMARY 
 
           This matter concerns multiple failures of Respondents to comply with Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) Standards in connection with annual audits and quarterly 
reviews of the financial statements of three microcap issuers, herein referred to as Issuers A, B and 
C. 
 
       Respondents repeatedly engaged in unreasonable conduct that resulted in violations of 
applicable professional standards and which demonstrate a lack of competence to practice before 
the Commission.  Among other things, Respondents repeatedly failed to prepare and maintain 
adequate audit work papers, consider and document fraud risks   , obtain engagement quality 
reviews, and obtain written management representations.  In addition, after Respondents became 
aware that Issuer B included their audit report in its Form 10-K filing with the Commission 
without permission, Respondents failed to inform Issuer B’s management or the audit committee 
of its board of directors of the illegal act.  In addition, Respondents failed to design procedures as 
part of their audit to detect illegal acts.  Respondents also claimed in each of their audit reports that 
they complied with PCAOB Standards when they had not. 
           
 

                                                                                                                                                             
     The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing 
   before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct.  
 
3
  The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other 
person or entity in this or any other proceedi ng.   
 
                                                 2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                       RESPONDENTS 

       1.      Malcolm L. Pollard (“Pollard”), age 72, resides in Erie, Pennsylvania.  Pollard 
has been licensed as a certified public accountant in the Commonwealth   of Pennsylvania since 
1981.4
        Pollard operates as the sole shareholder and employee of Pollard, Inc., a Pennsylvania 
corporation he formed in May 1993 and which he registered with the PCAOB in January 2010.  
Pollard withdrew the firm’s PCAOB registration in November 2011.   

       2.      Malcolm L. Pollard, Inc. (the “firm  ” or “Pollard, Inc.”) is a Pennsylvania 
corporation with its principal place of business in Erie, Pennsylvania.  Pollard, conducted the 
audits at issue in this matter, through his firm Pollard, Inc. which was registered with the 
PCAOB in January 2010.  The firm    withdrew its PCA OB registration in November 2011.  
Pollard owns and controls Pollard, Inc., and is its sole shareholder and employee.         
 
                                    RELATED ENTITIES 

       3.      Issuer A is a Nevada corporation with its principal place of business in Carson 
City, Nevada.  Issuer A’s com mon stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 
12(g) of the Exchange Act and is traded on the OTC Market.   Issuer A files periodic reports, 
including Forms 10-K and 10-Q, with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act and related rules thereunder.   

       4.      Issuer B is a Wyoming corporation with its principal place of business in Wayne, 
Pennsylvania.  Issuer B’s common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 
12(g) of the Exchange Act and is traded on the O TC Market.  Issuer B files periodic reports, 
including Forms 10-K and 10-Q, with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act and related rules thereunder. 

       5.      Issuer C is a Nevada corporation with its principal place of business in 
Hollywood, Florida.  Issuer C’s common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to 
Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and is traded on the OTC Market.  Issuer C files periodic 
reports, including Forms 10-K and 10-Q, with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act and related rules thereunder.   
 
                                            FACTS 
 
                                           ISSUER A 
                                                 
       6.      Issuer A’s public filings state that it offers  air -combat training, aerial refueling, 
aircraft maintenance training, disaster relief services, and other aerospace/defense services to the 
United States and foreign militaries and agencies.  Issuer A had no revenues for the fiscal years 
ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, and sustained net losses of $1,418,332 for fiscal year 2010.  
As of December 31, 2010, Issuer A had two full -time employees.  Respondents    issued an audit 

                                                 
4
 Pollard is also an attorney and is licensed to practice in Pennsylvania.  The conduct at issue in this Order is based 
on Pollard’s conduct as a CPA and not as an attorney. 
                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

report on May 12, 2011 on  Issuer A fiscal year 2010 financial statements and claimed to have 
conducted their audit in accordance with PCAOB Standards.  Respondents    , however, repeatedly 
failed to adhere to those standards in the performance of their audit.        

               Failure to Prepare and Retain    Adequate Audit Documentation      
 
       7.     PCAOB Standards require an auditor to   document the procedures performed, 
evidence obtained, and conclusions reached with respect to relevant financial statement 
assertions.  Audit documentation must clearly demonstrate that the work was in fact performed 
and must contain sufficient information to enable an experienced auditor, having no previous 
connection with the engagement: (1) to understand the nature, timing, extent, and results of the 
procedures performed, evidence obtained, and conclusions reached, and (2) to determine who 
performed the work and the date such work was completed as well as the person who reviewed 
the work and the date of such review.  AS No. 3, Audit Documentation, at .06                    .  In addition, an 
auditor must identify all significant findings or issues in an engagement completion document.  
AS No. 3, Audit Documentation, at .13.   
        
       8.     Respondents’ audit documentation for the  fiscal year 2010 audit of Issuer A was 
seriously deficient.5
                     The work papers did not include audit programs or memoranda describing 
procedures performed.  The work papers did not include any notations or evidence of the 
procedures performed or conclusions reached based on the work performed.  Further, none of the 
work papers contained evidence indicating who had performed the work and the date such work 
was completed.    
 
       9.     Respondents also failed to prepare an engagement completion document.  The 
engagement completion document identifies  the significant findings or issues of the audit which 
are substantive matters that are important to understanding the procedures performed, evidence 
obtained, or conclusions reached during the audit.     
 
                               Failure to Consider Fraud Risks 
 
       10.    PCAOB Standards require an auditor to consider fraud in a financial statement 
audit and document: (1) the procedures performed to obtain information necessary to identify and 
assess the risks of material misstatement due to fraud; (2) specific risks of material misstatement 
due to fraud that were identified, and a description of the auditor’s response to those risks; and (3) 
the results of the procedures performed to further address the risk of management override of 
controls.  AU § 316, Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit, at .83. 
                           
       11.    Respondents’ work papers were devoid of any documentation that they    considered 
fraud risks in their fiscal year 2010 financial statement audit of Issuer A.  The work papers 
contained no documentation of the procedures performed to identify and assess fraud risks, the 
fraud risks identified, or the results of procedures performed to address fraud risks.   
        
 
                                                 
5
 See AS No. 3 at ¶4 for examples of audit documentation.    
                                               4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                     Failure to Perform   an Engagement Quality Review 
 
       12.    PCAOB Standards require an   engagement quality review and concurring approval 
of issuance for each audit engagement and for each engagement to review interim financial 
information.  The objective of the engagement quality reviewer is to perform an evaluation of the 
significant judgments made by the engagement team and the related conclusions reached in 
forming the overall conclusion on the engagement and in preparing the engagement report, to 
determine whether to provide concurring approval of issuance.  The PCAOB Standards provide 
further that the engagement quality reviewer must be an associated person of a registered public 
accounting firm and that, to maintain objectivity, the reviewer (and any others who assist) should 
not make decisions on behalf of the engagement team or assume any of the responsibilities of the 
engagement team.  The engagement partner remains responsible for the engagement and its 
performance, notwithstanding the involvement of the engagement quality reviewer and others who 
assist the reviewer.  AS No. 7, Engagement Quality Review, at .01-.03, .07. 

       13.    As noted above, PCAOB Standards require an engagement quality review and 
concurring approval of issuance for each audit engagement.  AS No. 7, Engagement Quality 
Review, at .01.  Respondents failed to obtain an engagement quality review for their audit of Issuer 
A. 

                                          ISSUER B 
 
       14.    Issuer B’s public filings state that it develops and marke ts a unique line of 
vitamin-enriched gourmet spices.  According to its Form 10-K for fiscal year ended December 
31, 2010, Issuer B’s  initial product line featured ground pepper, cinnamon, granulated garlic and 
crushed red pepper packaged in plastic screw-top shakers, and its products under development 
included ketchup, mustard and salad dressing which will include its vitamin-enriched spices.  
Issuer B had no sales until the first quarter of fiscal year 2010.  Its gross revenues for fiscal year 
2010 were $18,901.  Its total expenses were $2,056,059, for a net operating loss of $2,037,568.  
As of December 31, 2010, Issuer B had one em ployee, its President and CEO. 

       15.    Respondents audited  Issuer B’s fiscal year 2009 and 2010 financial statements.  
Respondents’ audits, however, failed to comply with PCAOB Standards.  Respondents     also 
failed to have procedures in place to detect illegal acts and failed to investigate a potential illegal 
act on the part of Issuer B despite knowledge that an illegal act had occurred. 

               Failure to Prepare and Retain Adequate Audit Documentation       

       16.    As described above, PCAOB Standards require that audit document   ation clearly 
demonstrate that the work was in fact performed.  AS No. 3, Audit Documentation, at .06.  
Because audit documentation is the written record that provides the support for the 
representations in the auditor's report, it should:  (a) demonstrate that the engagement complied 
with the standards of the PCAOB; (b) support the basis for the auditor's conclusions concerning 
every relevant financial statement assertion; and (c) demonstrate that the underlying accounting 
records agreed or reconciled with the financial statements.  AS No. 3, Audit Documentation, at 
.05.  The PCAOB Standards also provide that the auditor must retain audit documentation for 
                                               5  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

seven years from the date the auditor grants permission to use the auditor's report in connection 
with the issuance of the company's financial statements or, if a report is not issued, seven years 
from the date that fieldwork was substantially complete.  AS No. 3, Audit Documentation, at .14                    .   

       17.    The audit documentation for Respondents   ’ fiscal year  2009 and 2010 Issuer B 
audits was grossly inadequate.  Respondents ’ work papers consisted only of a Management 
Representation letter signed by the CEO of Issuer B stating that the letter was provided to 
Respondents in connection with their  audits for the years  ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, 
and a draft of Issuer B’s Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2010.  These documents 
failed to demonstrate that Respondents’ engagement complied with PCAOB Standards, failed to 
support the basis for Respondents’ conclusions concerning relevant financial statement 
assertions, and failed to demonstrate that the underlying accounting records agreed or reconciled 
with the financial statements.  Indeed, the dearth of documents suggests that no audit work was 
in fact performed by Respondents .  

                     Failure to Perform an Engagement Quality Review  
 
       18.    As noted above, PCAOB Standards require an engagement quality review and 
concurring approval of issuance for each audit engagement and for each engagement to review 
interim financial information.  AS No. 7, Engagement Quality Review                                       , at .01.  Respondents failed 
to obtain an engagement quality review for their audit of Issuer B for the year ended December 31, 
2010. 

 Failure to Have Procedures to Detect Illegal Acts and to Investigate a Potential Illegal Act 
               
       19.    Section 10A(a)(1) provides that each audit by a registered public accounting firm 
shall include . . . procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance of detecting illegal acts that 
would have a direct and material effect on the determination of financial statement amounts.  In 
addition, Section 10A(b)(1) provides that if, in the course of conducting an audit . . . the registered 
public accounting firm detects or otherwise becomes aware of information indicating that an illegal 
act (whether or not perceived to have a material effect on the financial statements of the issuer) has 
or may have occurred, the firm shall . . . determine whether it is likely that an illegal act has 
occurred, and, if so, determine and consider the possible effect of the illegal act on the financial 
statements of the issuer . . . and as soon as practicable, inform the appropriate level of the 
management of the issuer and assure that the audit committee of the issuer, or the board of 
directors of the issuer in the absence of such a committee, is adequately informed with respect to 
illegal acts that have been detected or have otherwise come to the attention of such firm in the 
course of the audit, unless the illegal act is clearly inconsequential. 

       20.    Respondents gave a draft audit report to Issuer B but did not give the Company 
permission to include their report in the Company’s Form 10-K filing, which Issuer B filed with 
the Commission on April 15, 2011.  The report that was in the 10-K filing was not the draft that 
Respondents provided the Company.  Respondents did not do any evaluation to ascertain 
whether an illegal act actually occurred and did not evaluate the possible effect of the act on the 
financial statements.  Respondents were aware that an audit report bearing the firm’s name had 
been included in the Form 10-K filed with the Commission.  Despite this knowledge, 
                                                6  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

Respondents did not inform Issuer B’s management that the Company had included their audit 
report without permission and did not assure that the audit committee (or the board of directors) 
was adequately informed of that fact.  In addition, Respondents audit had no procedures in place 
to detect illegal acts.    

                                           ISSUER C 
 
       21.     Issuer C currently operates an e-commerce website that enables businesses to 
establish an on-line retail presence. Issuer C had $28,351 in gross revenues for fiscal year 2010 
and an accumulated deficit of approximately $9 million as of December 31, 2010.   
 
       22.     Respondents issued an audit report  on March 18, 2011 on  Issuer C’s fiscal year 
2008 and 2009 financial statements, 6
                                      and an  audit report on April 12, 2011 on  Issuer C’s fiscal 
year 2009 and 2010 financial statements.  For each, Respondents   claimed to have con ducted the  
audit in accordance with PCAOB Standards.  Respondents      also conducted quarterly reviews for 
June 30, 2010, September 30, 2010, March 31, 2011, and June 30, 2011 for Issuer C.  
Respondents failed repeatedly to adhere to PCAOB Standards in the performance of their     Issuer 
C audits and reviews.  

               Failure to Prepare and Retain    Adequate Audit Documentation        
                   
       23.     As noted above, PCAOB Standards include requirements for documentation the 
auditor should prepare and retain.  AS No. 3, Audit Documentation, at .01.  Respondents ’ audit 
documentation for the audits for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010 of 
Issuer C was woefully inadequate.  The audits failed to include evidence of the procedures 
performed, evidence obtained, and conclusions reached with respect to relevant financial statement 
assertions.  For example, the  work papers did not include audit programs or memoranda describing 
procedures performed.  The work papers did not include any notations or evidence of the 
procedures performed or conclusions reached based on the work performed. Further, none of the 
work papers contained evidence indicating who had performed the work and the date such work 
was completed.   

                                Failure to Consider Fraud Risks 
 
       24.     PCAOB Standards require an auditor to consider fraud in a financial statement 
audit and document: (1) the procedures performed to obtain information necessary to identify and 
assess the risks of material misstatement due to fraud; (2) specific risks of material misstatement 
due to fraud that were identified, and a description of the auditor’s response to those risks; and (3) 
the results of the procedures performed to further address the risk of management override of 
controls.  AU § 316, Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit, at .83. 
                  

                                                 
6
 The fiscal years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were audited by a predecessor firm and included in Issuer C’s 
Form 10-K filed with the Commission on April 15, 2010.   On October 19, 2010, the PCAOB permanently revoked 
the registration of the predecessor firm.  Respondents’ March 18, 2011 opinion and audit report for fiscal years 2009 
and 2008 were included in Issuer C’s amended Form 10-K filed with the Commission on April 7, 2011. 
                                                7  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

       25.    Respondents’ work papers contained no documentation showing that they 
considered fraud in connection with the audits of  Issuer C for fiscal years 2008, 2009 and 2010.  
The work papers contained no documentation of the procedures performed to identify and assess 
fraud risks, the fraud risks identified, or the results of procedures performed to address fraud 
risks.   
                  
                     Failure to Perform  an Engagement Quality Review 
 
       26.    As discussed above, PCAOB Standards require an engagement quality review and 
concurring approval of issuance for each audit engagement and for each engagement to review 
interim financial information.  AS No. 7, Engagement Quality Review                                       , at .01.  Respondents failed 
to obtain engagement quality reviews for their audit of Issuer C for the fiscal year ended December 
31, 2010 and for the four quarterly reviews performed for the quarters ended June 30, 2010, 
September 30, 2010, March 31, 2011 and June 30, 2011.   

                   Failure to Obtain Written Management Representations 

       27.    PCAOB Standards require an independent auditor to obtain written 
representations from management as a part of an audit of financial statements and they should be 
obtained for all financial statements and periods covered by the auditor’s report.  The written 
representations ordinarily con firm representations explicitly or implicitly given to the auditor, 
indicate and document the continuing appropriateness of such representations, and reduce the 
possibility of misunderstanding concerning the matters that are the subject of the representations.  
AU § 333, Management Representations          , at .01-.02, .05.  
                  
       28.    Respondents failed to obtain written representations from  Issuer C’s management 
as part of their audits for fiscal years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009.  
                                                
                                        VIOLATIONS 
 
                               Improper Professional Conduct 
 
       29.    Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides, in part, that the 
Commission may censure or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before the Commission to any person who is found by the Commission to have engaged 
in improper professional conduct.  Rule 102(e)(1)(iv) defines improper professional conduct with 
respect to persons licensed to practice as accountants.  As applicable here, improper professional 
conduct means a violation of applicable professional standards that resulted from “repeated 
instances of unreasonable conduct . . . that indicate a lack of competence to practice before the 
Commission.”   “Unreasonable conduct,” as used in this provision, means ordinary negligence.  See 
In the Matter of Dohan & Co. CPA, Release No. 420 (June 27, 2011).   
               
       30.    Respondents engaged in repeated instances of unreasonable conduct that indicate a 
lack of competence to practice before the Commission.  Due to their number and seriousness, any 
one of Respondents’ auditing failures described above amount to negligent misconduct.  
Respondents conducted the audits in question in a manner in which no other reasonable auditor 
                                               8  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

would act.  Specifically, Respondents failed: (i) to obtain written management representations in 
their fiscal year 2008 and 2009 audits of Issuer C.  (AU § 333) (ii) to prepare and maintain 
adequate audit work papers for their fiscal year 2010 audit of Issuer A, fiscal year 2009 and 2010 
audits of Issuer B, and fiscal year 2008, 2009 and 2010 audits of Issuer C, and to include an 
engagement completion document in their   fiscal year 2010 audit of Issuer A (AS No. 3); (iii) to 
consider and document fraud in their fiscal year 2010 audit of Issuer A and their fiscal year 2008, 
2009 and 2010 audits of Issuer C (AU § 316. 83); and  (iv) to obtain engagement quality reviews in 
their fiscal year 2010 audit of Issuer A, fiscal year 2010 audit of Issuer B, fiscal year 2010 audit of 
Issuer C, and for the quarterly reviews for quarters ended June 30, 2010, September 30, 2010, 
March 31, 2011 and June 30, 2011 of Issuer C (AS No. 7). 
         
               Violations of Sections 10A(a)(1) and (b)(1) of the Exchange Act 
            
       31.     Section 10A(a)(1) of the Exchange Act provides  that “[e]ach audit…by a 
 registered public accounting firm shall  include” procedures designed to detect illegal acts that 
 would have a material effect on the determination of the financial statement amounts.   

       32.     Section 10A(b)(1) of the Exchange Act provides  that if “the registered public 
 accounting firm detects or otherwise becomes aware of information indicating tha t an illegal act 
 (whether or not perceived to have a material effect on the financial statements of the issuer) has 
 or may have occurred, the firm  shall . . . determine whether it is likely that an illegal act has 
 occurred; and . . . if so, determine and consider the possible effect of the illegal act on the 
 financial statements of the issuer . . . .”  Section 10A(b)(1) further requires the public 
 accounting firm to “inform the appropriate level of the management of the issuer and assure that 
 the audit committee of the issuer, or the board of directors of the issuer in the absence of such a 
 committee, is adequately informed with respect to illegal acts that have been detected or have 
 otherwise come to the attention of such firm in the course of the audit, unless the illegal act is 
 clearly inconsequential.”   

       33.     Respondents gave Issuer B a draft audit report but did not give the Company 
 permission to include their report in the Company’s Form 10-K filing which Issuer B filed with 
 the Commission on April 15, 2011.  Respondents did not do any evaluation to ascertain whether 
 an illegal act actually occurred and did not evaluate the possible effect of the act on the financial 
 statements.  Respondents knew that Issuer B filed an audit report bearing the firm’s name.  
 Despite knowing that this illegal act had occurred, Respondents did not inform Issuer B’s 
 management that the Company had included Respondents’ audit report without Respondents’ 
 permission and did not assure that the audit committee (or the board of directors) was 
 adequately informed of that fact.  Moreover, Respondents had no procedures in place during the 
 audit to detect illegal acts.  Accordingly, Respondents willfully violated Sections 10A(a)(1) and 
 (b)(1) of the Exchange Act.  

                   Violation of Exchange Act Rule 2    -02 of Regulation S-X 

       34.     Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X mandates that an accountant’s report “state 
whether the audit was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards . . . .”  
“[R]eferences in Commission rules and staff guidance and in the federal securities laws to GAAS 
                                                9  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

or to specific standards under GAAS, as they relate to issuers, should be understood to mean the 
standards of the PCAOB plus any applicable rules of the Commission.”  See In the Matter of KMJ 
Corbin & Co., Re lease No. 3185 (Sept. 13, 2010).  Thus, an auditor violates Regulation S-X 2-
02(b)(1) if it issues a report stating that it had conducted its audit in accordance with PCAOB 
Standards when it had not.  See In the Matter of Andrew Sims, CPA                         , Release No. 2950 (March 17, 
2009).   

       35.    Each of Respondents  ’ audit reports stated that they had conducted their audits in 
accordance with PCAOB Standards.  Respondents   , however, did not conduct their audits in 
accordance with PCAOB Standards.  As described above, Respondents committed repeated audit 
failures in violation of those standards.  Respondents failed to: (1) obtain written management 
representations; (2) prepare and maintain adequate audit documentation; (3) consider and 
document fraud; and (4) obtain engagement quality reviews.  Accordingly,  Respondents willfully 
violated Rule 2-02(b)(1).      
 
                                         FINDINGS 
 
       36.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondents  engaged in 
improper professional conduct pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice. 
        
       37.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondents  willfully violated 
Exchange Act Sections 10A(a)(1) and (b)(1).   
        
       38.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondents  willfully violated 
Exchange Act Rule 2-02 of Regulation S-X.   
               
                                              IV. 
                                                
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                              10   
---------------------Page 11---------------------

       A.      Respondents shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
any future violations of Exchange Act Sections 10A(a)(1) and (b)(1).   
 
       B.      Respondents shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
any future violations of Exchange Act Rule 2-02 of Regulation S-X.  
 
       C.      Respondents are  denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant.   
 
 
 
        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                    Secretary 

                                               11   
