---------------------Page 1---------------------

                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                          Before the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 79193 / October 31, 2016 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3820 / October 31, 2016 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17651 
 
 
 
                                                  
                                                ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC   

In the Matter of                                ADMINISTRATIVE        PROCEEDINGS  
                                                PURSUANT TO SECTION  4C OF THE 
       ADRIAN D. BEAMISH , CPA,                 SECURITIE S EXCHANGE ACT OF             1934 
                                                AND RULE 102(e) OF THE  

Respondent.                                    COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE
 
 
 


                                                

       The Securities  and Exchange  Commission  (“Commission”)  deems it appropriate  that 
public  administrative  proceedings  be, and hereby are, instituted  against  Adrian  D. Beamish,  CPA 
                                                                                            1
(“Respondent”  or “Beamish”)  pursuant  to Section  4C of the Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934 
                                                                              2
(“Exchange  Act”) and Rule  102(e)(1)(ii)  of the Commission’s  Rules of Practice.  

                                                 
1
  Section   4C provides, in relevant  part, that: “The Commission  may censure any person, or deny, 
temporarily  or permanently,  to any person the privilege  of appearing  or practicing  before the 
Commission  in any  way, if that person is found  . . . (1) not to possess the requisite  qualifications 
to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking  in character or integrity,  or to have engaged  in unethical 
or improper  professional  conduct; or (3) to have willfully  violated,  or willfully  aided and abetted 
the violation  of, any provision  of the securities  laws or the rules and regulations  thereunder.” 
2
  Rule 102(e)(1)(ii)  provides, in pertinent  part, that: “The  Commission  may . . . deny, temporarily 
or permanently,  the privilege  of appearing  or practicing  before it . . . to any person who is found  . 
. . to have engaged in unethical  or improper  professional  conduct.” 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                 II. 

       After an investigation,  the Division  of Enforcement  and the Office  of the Chief 
Accountant  allege  that: 

A.     Summary 

       1.      Respondent  Adrian D. Beamish  repeatedly  engaged  in improper  professional 
conduct during  PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP’s audits of Burrill  Life  Sciences Capital Fund III, 
LP, a $283 million  San Francisco-based venture  capital  fund.  PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP, was 
first  engaged to conduct the audits of the venture  capital  fund’s  year-end 2006 financial 
statements.  As detailed  below, Beamish,  as the engagement  partner,  failed  to comply  with the 
relevant  professional  standards in connection  with  his  audits of the fund’s  2009, 2010, 2011, and 
2012 year-end financial  statements.   

       2.      In the audit of the venture  capital  fund’s  year-end 2009 financial  statements, 
Beamish  became aware that the fund’s  founder, G. Steven Burrill,  had arranged for the fund to 
pay millions  of dollars  to other companies  that Burrill  owned and controlled.  From 2009 through 
2011, Burrill  characterized  the payments  as advances on future  management  fees that he would 
earn through  the provision  of future  management  services  as the fund’s  manager.  The payments 
were made many months—and  even years—before the fees were to be earned. In each of these 
three years, Beamish  failed  to inquire  whether  Burrill  had the authority  to take the unusual 
payments,  nor did he scrutinize  the rationale  for the payments,  which  Burrill  needed to pay his 
own personal  expenses and to fund  his other businesses.  Significantly,  in conducting  the year-
end 2012 audit, Beamish  learned that the advanced management  fee payments  that had been paid 
greatly  exceeded any potential  future  management  fee obligations  the fund  might  owe.  

       3.      Despite  an advanced management  fee balance  rapidly  growing  over several years 
and not decreasing,  and Beamish’s  own audit team’s suggested  financial  disclosure  language   
being  rejected by management,  Beamish  improperly  signed  audit  reports with  unqualified 
opinions  for the fund’s  year-end 2009, 2010, 2011, and 2012 financial  statements,  in violation  of 
Generally  Accepted Auditing  Standards (“GAAS”).  In addition,  the fund’s  financial  statements, 
for those same years, did not comply  with  Generally  Accepted Accounting  Principles  (“GAAP”).  
Further,  Beamish  relied  upon unreasonable  bases as the supposed means for repayment  of the 
advanced management  fee balance. 
 
B.     Respondent 

       4.      Adrian  D. Beamish, CPA, age 44, is a resident  of Los Altos, California.  Beamish 
has been licensed  as a Certified  Public  Accountant  in California  since November 2004, and has 
been a Chartered Accountant  in England  and Wales since 1995. Beamish  was hired by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers’  U.K. firm  in 1995, and in 1998, he moved  to PricewaterhouseCoopers’ 
U.S.A. firm  in San Jose, California,  where he became an audit partner in 2006. Beamish 
conducts audits of both public  and private  entities  for PricewaterhouseCoopers,  and he 
specializes  in the pharmaceutical  life  sciences  and venture  capital  industries. 

                                                 2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

C.     Related Persons and Entities 

       5.      G. Steven Burrill,  age 71, resides in San Francisco, California,  and Eagle  River, 
Wisconsin.  From 1977 to 1993, Burrill  was a partner at a large  audit  firm  and focused  on the 
biotechnology  industry.  Burrill  began raising  venture  capital  funds  when he left the audit firm  in 
1993. In addition  to venture  capital  funds,  Burrill  owned and controlled  a number  of affiliated 
businesses,  including  an investment  adviser,  a merchant  banking  firm,  and a media company.  On 
March 16, 2016, Burrill,  a CPA, was suspended from  appearing  or practicing  before the 
Commission  as an accountant  and was barred from  association with any broker, dealer, investment 
adviser, municipal  securities  dealer, municipal  advisor, transfer agent, or nationally  recognized 
statistical  rating organization  and prohibited from serving  or acting as an employee, officer, director, 
member of an advisory board, investment  adviser or depositor of, or principal  underwriter for, a 
registered investment  company or affiliated  person of such investment  adviser, depositor, or 
principal  underwriter.   

       6.      Burrill  Capital Management, LLC (“BCM”) is a Delaware  limited  liability 
company  and filed  reports as an exempt reporting  adviser with  the Commission  from April  2012 
to January  2015, when it withdrew  its registration.  Burrill  Capital Management  is wholly  owned 
by Burrill  and had its principal  place of business  in San Francisco, California.  Now defunct, 
BCM acted as the adviser to several venture  capital  funds  operated by Burrill.  Burrill  also used 
BCM as the operating  entity  through  which  he directed resources to his affiliated  businesses.  As 
of its last filing  in  March 2014, BCM reported $358.6 million  in total assets under management. 

       7.      Burrill  Life Sciences Capital Fund  III, LP (“Fund  III” or the “Fund”)  is a 
Delaware limited  partnership  formed by Burrill  in 2006. The Fund received  $283 million  in 
venture  capital  funds  to invest  in life  sciences  companies.  The Fund retained  BCM as its 
investment  adviser. 

       8.      Burrill  Life Sciences Capital Fund  III Partners, LP (“General Partner”),  a 
Delaware  limited  partnership,  was the General  Partner of Fund III during  the relevant  time 
period. The General Partner’s Investment  Committee  included  Burrill  and four others. The 
General  Partner was entitled  to receive  fees for managing  the Fund, but also could designate  an 
affiliate  to receive the fees. 

       9.      Burrill  Capital, LLC (“Management Company”)  is a Delaware limited  liability 
company  owned and controlled  entirely  by Burrill.  As described further  below, in its 2012 
financial  statements,  the Fund stated that the Management  Company was responsible  for 
repaying  the balance of the management  fees that had been advanced to the General Partner. 

       10.    PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP (“PricewaterhouseCoopers”  or “PwC”) 
provides  audit, assurance, tax, transaction,  and advisory  services  throughout  the United States, 
and throughout  the world via their members  firms.  Auditors  from its San Jose, California  office 
conducted the audits  of Fund III for fiscal  years 2006-2012.  

        

                                                  3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

D.     Formation  of Fund  and Retention of PricewaterhouseCoopers  as Auditors 

       11.    Burrill  formed  Fund III in 2006 to invest  in life  sciences companies.  Established 
with a projected 10-year lifespan,  Fund III was originally  scheduled  to expire in February 2016. 
Fund III is structured  as a limited  partnership.  Investors  in  Fund III, which  include  public 
companies,  pension  funds,  and institutional  investors,  are limited  partners  in the Fund. During 
the relevant  period, Burrill  Life Sciences Capital  Fund III Partners, LP served as the Fund’s 
General  Partner. Five individuals,  including  Burrill,  controlled  the General  Partner.  

       12.    The rights  and responsibilities  of the General  Partner and the limited  partners of 
Fund III are governed  by a limited  partnership  agreement  (“LPA”).  The LPA delineates,  among 
other things,  the manner  and amount  of the General Partner’s  fees for managing  the Fund.  
According  to the LPA, the General  Partner or its designee  is entitled  to two percent of committed 
capital  for six years, payable on the first  day of each fiscal  quarter for management  services  to be 
rendered during  that quarter. After the initial  six years, the General Partner or its designee  is 
entitled  to two percent of the cost basis of the investments,  plus reserves.  As enumerated  in the 
LPA, the management  fee was intended  to be used by the General Partner  to cover expenses in 
connection  with  the management  of the fund, including  salaries,  travel,  and rent. The LPA did 
not authorize  the General Partner to take management  fees more than one quarter in advance,  and 
prohibited  non-arm’s  length  transactions  between Fund III and the General  Partner or its 
members  without  explicit  approval of an advisory  committee  of limited  partners. 

       13.    The Fund’s offering  materials  state that a major financial  accounting  firm  would 
issue a report on the financial  statements  annually.  In addition,  the LPA similarly  stipulated  that 
the Fund would issue  financial  statements  in accordance with GAAP, and would be audited 
annually  by a public  accountant  of recognized  national  standing. 

       14.    Beginning  in 2006, the Fund issued annual  financial  statements  and retained 
PricewaterhouseCoopers  to serve as its auditor  to conduct annual  audits on the Fund. Beamish 
served as the PwC audit partner responsible  for the audit  team’s  compliance  with the appropriate 
professional  standards.  As the engagement  partner,  Beamish  had final  authority  over the 
planning,  execution,  and supervision  of the audits and was responsible  for audit  reports issued by 
PwC on the Fund’s financial  statements. 

       15.    For the year-end 2009 through  year-end 2012 audits,  Beamish  authorized 
PricewaterhouseCoopers  to issue  audit reports with  unqualified  opinions  stating  that the Fund’s 
financial  statements  were presented fairly,  in all material  respects, in accordance with GAAP and 
that the audits were conducted in accordance with  GAAS. In reality,  however,  the Fund’s 
financial  statements  failed  to comply  with  GAAP and the audits failed  to comply  with  GAAS. 

        
E.     Burrill  Took “Advanced Management Fees” to Fund Other Businesses  

       16.    In late 2007, Burrill  and his affiliated  businesses  began to face cash flow 
shortages.  Burrill  Capital Management,  the adviser to Fund III and the entity  through  which 
Burrill  operated and funded  his affiliated  businesses,  maintained  records showing  that the 
expenses  of the Burrill  affiliates  far exceeded the revenue  that the businesses  were generating. 

                                                  4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

Even though  he did not solely  control the Fund’s General  Partner, Burrill  unilaterally  directed 
BCM’s controller  to take $400,000 from  Fund III to make up for the cash shortfall  in BCM. 
Burrill  justified  the withdrawal  as an “advance  on management  fees” that the General  Partner 
expected to earn in the first  quarter of 2008. The advance was recorded as a “prepaid expense” 
on the books of Fund III.   

       17.    By mid-2008, Burrill,  alone directing  the General Partner, had begun to take 
routine  and significant  advances on management  fees. Whenever  BCM, or Burrill’s  affiliated 
entities,  faced a cash shortfall,  Burrill  arranged to cover the shortfall  by taking  money  from 
Fund III and recording  it as a prepaid expense to BCM on the Fund’s books. Advanced 
management  fees from  Fund III became a consistent  cash source for the affiliates  and for Burrill 
personally.  Burrill  used the money  to pay for, among  other things,  salaries  of employees  of the 
related entities  and his personal expenses.  These advanced management  fees appeared in the 
Fund’s financial  statements  as “prepaid expenses”  or “receivables,”  as described below. 
        
F.     During  the Year-End  2009, 2010, and 2011 Audits, Beamish Failed  
       to Scrutinize  the Advanced Fees Appropriately 

       18.    The amount  of the advanced management  fees taken by the General  Partner was 
disclosed  to the PricewaterhouseCoopers  audit team. Through  the audits,  Beamish  became aware 
that the balance of the advanced management  fees increased  by millions  of dollars every year 
from 2009 through  2011: 

            By the end of 2009, the advanced  management  fee balance totaled $4,927,374, 
             representing  almost  one year of advanced management  fees. 

            By the end of 2010, the advanced management  fee balance had grown to 
             $9,259,317, or just under two years of advanced management  fees.   

            By the end of 2011, the advanced management  fee balance had grown to 
             $13,374,569, or nearly  three full  years in advanced management  fees.   

       19.    These balances were significant,  far surpassing  PwC’s internally-established 
threshold  for materiality  and were recognized  by the PwC audit  team, and by Beamish 
particularly,  as unusual  in the industry.  According  to the relevant  GAAS standards  that relate to 
the consideration  of possibility  of fraud, if  an auditor becomes aware of significant  and unusual 
transactions,  the auditor should  gain  an understanding  of “the business  rationale  of such 
transactions  and whether that rationale  (or lack thereof)  suggests  that such transactions  may have 
been entered into to engage in fraudulent  financial  reporting  or to conceal the misappropriation 
                         3
of assets.” AU § 316.66.    Furthermore,  in assessing  the risk of material  misstatement,  the auditor 
must consider there is a risk that “involves  significant  non-routine  transactions  . . . outside the 
                                                                                                     
normal  course of business  for the entity,  or that otherwise  appear to be unusual.”  AU § 314.111.  

                                                 
3
 “AU”  and “AU-C” refer to Statements  on Auditing  Standards issued by the American  Institute 
of Certified  Public  Accountants.   

                                                  5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       20.    Despite the significant  and unusual  nature of the payment  of the advanced 
management  fees, Beamish  and the PwC audit team  took no steps to try to understand  the 
business  rationale  for the payments.  And even though  the balance of the advanced fees grew 
steadily  during  2009, 2010, and 2011, Beamish  did not inquire  into  the rationale  for the 
advances, nor did Beamish  inquire  as to why the amount  grew.  

       21.    Had Beamish  made appropriate inquiries  as required by professional  standards, 
his audit team would have likely  discovered that the fees advanced to the General Partner had 
been used for the business  operations  of affiliated  Burrill  entities,  such as Burrill  Securities  LLC, 
and to pay for Burrill’s  own personal expenses.  Further, Beamish  did not attempt to obtain 
evidence  about whether  Burrill  and the affiliated  entities  were authorized  to receive  such 
payments,  as well as whether they  had the ability  to repay the amounts. 

       22.    Generally  Accepted Auditing  Standards  require  auditors  to exercise “due 
professional  care” throughout  an audit.  AU § 230. Due professional  care requires  an auditor to 
exercise professional  skepticism,  “an attitude  that includes  a questioning  mind and a critical 
assessment  of audit evidence.”  AU § 230.07. “Since evidence  is gathered and evaluated 
throughout  the audit, professional  skepticism  should be exercised  throughout  the audit process.” 
AU § 230.08. The auditor “should  not be satisfied  with  less than persuasive  evidence  because of 
a belief  that management  is honest.”  AU § 230.09; see also AU § 316.13. This is particularly 
true with respect to related  party transactions.  Audit  procedures for related party transactions 
“should  extend beyond inquiry  of management”  and require  an auditor to obtain an 
“understanding  of the business  purpose of the transaction.”  AU § 334.09.  

       23.    Beamish  failed  to exercise the professional  care required by GAAS in the audits 
of the Fund’s 2009, 2010, and 2011 financial  statements.  Beamish  took no steps to obtain audit 
evidence  that the payments  were properly approved and authorized,  even as the balance 
continued  to grow year to year. During  the audit of the Fund’s year-end 2011 financial 
statements,  Beamish’s  audit team calculated  the total future  management  fees due to the General 
Partner for the remaining  life  of Fund III. The audit  team estimated  there was approximately 
$10.2 million  left  in future  management  fees to be earned by the General Partner over the 
remainder  of the contractual  life  of Fund III, beyond the nearly  $13.4 million  that had already 
been advanced. The audit team concluded that the General  Partner could “earn down” the 
balance, through  the provision  of management  services  by the expected termination  of the Fund 
in 2016.  

       24.    The auditors’  calculation  of the amount  of future  fees available  to the General 
Partner during  the 2011 audit, however, was incorrect  by a significant  margin.  If his audit team 
had correctly  calculated  the future  management  fees to be earned, using  a conservative 
calculation,  Beamish  would have realized  there was, at most, $3.2 million  in future  fees to be 
earned—not  the $10.2 million  that the PwC team had calculated.  After  the approximately  $3.2 
million  was paid, Fund III would have no contractual  obligation  to pay additional  management 
fees to the General Partner  or its designee  for the remaining  contractual  term  of the Fund. Had 
Beamish  exercised the appropriate professional  skepticism  required of him  as an auditor, 
especially  in light  of the ever increasing  advanced management  fee balance,  he should  have 
questioned  and sought  evidence  for the premise  that the advanced management  fee balance 

                                                  6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

would  likely  be recovered simply  through  the provision  of future  management  services  by the 
General  Partner. 

       25.    From his audit,  moreover,  Beamish  learned  that the Fund described the advanced 
management  fee balance  as a “receivable,”  or undocumented  loan, to the General Partner in the 
year-end 2009, 2010, and 2011 financial  statements.  Generally  Accepted Auditing  Standards 
require  special  scrutiny  of interest-free  loans between related parties and loans with  “no 
scheduled  terms for when or how the funds  will  be repaid.” AU § 334.03. When confronted  with 
such an undocumented  loan, an auditor  is required  to “[d]etermine  whether  the transaction  has 
been approved by those charged with  governance.”  AU § 334.09. Nonetheless,  Beamish,  and the 
PwC auditors  working  at his direction,  took no steps to determine  whether  such a loan to the 
General  Partner was permitted  by the LPA. Nor did Beamish  inquire  whether the General 
Partner’s governing  documents  permitted  Burrill  to take the advanced fees without  the consent of 
the General Partner. 
        
G.     The Fund’s  Year-End 2009, 2010, and 2011 Financial  Statements  
       Failed to Disclose Fees Accurately 

       26.    Generally  Accepted Auditing  Standards  concerning  related party transactions 
require that an “auditor  should  view related party transactions  within  the framework  of existing 
[accounting]  pronouncements,  placing primary emphasis on the adequacy of disclosure.” AU 
§ 334.02 (emphasis  added). Furthermore,  an auditor should  apply procedures to obtain 
satisfaction  about the related party transactions  and the effect on financial  statements.  AU 
§ 334.09. For each “material  related party transaction  . . . common  ownership  or management 
control  relationship  . . . the auditor  should  consider whether he has obtained sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence  to understand  the relationship  of the parties and . . . the effects  of the 
transaction  on the financial  statements.”  AU § 334.11. Disclosures  of related party transactions 
must  include  (1) the nature of the relationships  involved;  (2) a description  of the transactions  and 
other such information  deemed necessary to an understanding  of the effects  of the transactions 
                                                                                              4
on the financial  statements;  and (3) the terms and manner  of settlement.  ASC 850-10-50-1.   

       27.     The Fund III year-end 2009, 2010, and 2011 financial  statements  inconsistently 
and inaccurately  disclosed  the nature of the advanced management  fees. In none of the three 
year-end financial  statements  did the Fund adequately  disclose  that management  fees were being 
advanced:    

            The balance sheet in the Fund’s year-end 2009 audited  financial  statements 
             included  the amount  of advanced management  fees as an undefined  part of a larger 
             “prepaid expense”  paid by the Fund. The balance sheets in the 2010 and 2011 
             financial  statements  similarly  included  the amount  of advanced management  fees as 
             an undefined  part of a larger  amount  of “prepaid  expenses and other receivables,” 
             but did not separately  show a related party receivable  on the balance sheet as 
             required by GAAP (and in particular,  ASC 850-10-50-2). The balance sheets did 

                                                 
4
 “ASC” refers to the Accounting  Standards Codification  issued by the Financial  Accounting 
Standards Board. 

                                                 7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

             not further  describe the nature of the “prepaid expenses”  or “receivables,”  and made 
             no explicit  reference  to the payment  of advanced management  fees. 

            The Related  Party footnotes  to the year-end 2009, 2010, and 2011 audited  financial 
             statements  described the amount  of the advanced management  fees only  as a 
             “receivable  from the General Partner.”  The footnotes  did not further  describe  the 
             transaction  nor the terms and manner  of settlement  of the so-called  “receivable,”  as 
             required by GAAP. ASC 850-10-50-1. 

            The Management  Fee footnotes  to the year-end 2009, 2010, and 2011 audited 
             financial  statements  merely  described the amount  the General  Partner was legally 
             entitled  to receive  over the course of the calendar  year in accordance with the LPA. 
             The footnotes  did not disclose  that the Fund had actually  paid advanced 
             management  fees, and contained  no references  to the amounts  described as “prepaid 
             expenses”  and “receivables”  on the balance sheets or a cross-reference  to the 
             Related  Party footnotes.  As a result,  the footnotes  further  created a misleading 
             picture of the Fund’s financial  statements  for each period.   

       28.    The Fund’s audited  financial  statements  materially  misstated  the nature of the 
related party payments.  Beamish  failed  to obtain sufficient  appropriate audit evidence  to 
determine  whether  GAAP compliant  disclosure  of the payments  made was adequate, as required 
by GAAS, when he authorized  PricewaterhouseCoopers  to issue  audit reports with  unqualified 
opinions  on the Fund’s year-end 2009, 2010, and 2011 financial  statements. 
        
H.     Beamish Issued a Clean Opinion  on the Fund’s  Year-End 2012 Financial  Statements 

       29.    By the first  quarter of 2012, the General  Partner was paid more in management 
fees from  Fund III than the General  Partner was contractually  entitled  to earn over the entire  10-
year life  of the Fund. At the end of 2012, the balance of the advanced management  fees totaled 
$17,922,059. Beamish  was aware of the balance of advanced management  fees in connection 
with the audit of the Fund’s 2012 financial  statements.  Under Beamish’s  supervision,  the PwC 
audit team calculated  that the fund  overpaid  in excess of approximately  $7 million  in 
management  fees.  

       30.    Aware that millions  of dollars  in  excess management  fees had been taken from 
the Fund, the audit team proposed to BCM management  that the Fund provide the following 
additional  disclosure  in its  year-end 2012 financial  statements:  “Prepaid expenses and other 
receivables  at December 31, 2012 include  $17.9 million  due from the General Partner. This 
amount exceeds the expected future management fee expenses for the remaining contractual life 
of the fund.” (Emphasis  added.) When BCM management  rejected the second sentence of 
Beamish’s  proposal regarding  the excessive  amount,  however,  Beamish  agreed that the 
additional  disclosure  need not be included  in the Fund’s financial  statements. 

       31.    Shortly  thereafter,  BCM management  told Beamish  that Burrill  had executed an 
unsecured  promissory  note for the full  amount  of the advanced management  fee balance.  The 
BCM controller  provided  PwC with  the promissory  note, which  was dated December 31, 2012. 
After receiving  the note, Beamish’s  audit team suggested  a revision  to the proposed Related 

                                                 8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

Party footnote for the Fund’s  year-end 2012 financial  statements  to describe the terms of the 
note, the manner  of settlement,  and the interest  rate. The auditors  provided the suggestion  to 
BCM management.  Three days later, the BCM controller  told Beamish  that Burrill  “strongly 
feels he does not want the footnote as currently  worded to be included  in the financials”  and that 
the note had been “withdrawn.”  The reference  to the promissory  note was omitted  from the year-
end 2012 audited financial  statements.    

       32.    In April  2013, the Fund issued its year-end 2012 financial  statements  with  an 
audit report with  an unqualified  audit  opinion  from PricewaterhouseCoopers.  The audited 
financial  statements  materially  misstated  the nature of the related party payments.  Beamish  failed 
to obtain sufficient  appropriate audit evidence  to determine  whether  GAAP compliant  disclosure 
of the payments  was made, as required by GAAS, when he authorized  PwC to issue its audit 
report with  an unqualified  opinion.  The balance sheet identified  the advanced management  fees 
as part of a larger amount  of “prepaid expenses and other receivables  from related party”  owed to 
the Fund, but did not separately  show a related party receivable  on the balance sheet as required 
by GAAP (and in particular,  ASC 850-10-50-2).  

       33.    In the Related Party footnote  to the year-end 2012 financial  statements,  the Fund 
described the advanced management  fees only as a “receivable”  owed by the Management 
Company, Burrill  Capital, LLC—not the General  Partner, as had been disclosed  in the year-end 
2009, 2010, and 2011 financial  statements.  The footnote  did not further  describe the transaction 
nor the terms of the “receivable,”  as required by GAAP (and in particular,  ASC 850-10-50-1). 

       34.    The footnote further  stated that the Management  Company  “intends  to pay”  the 
receivable  “from  future  distributions  to the General  Partner” and from  “Management  Company 
funds.”  Beamish  and his audit team, however,  failed  to obtain sufficient  audit evidence  of the 
receivable’s  collectability,  as required  by GAAS. An auditor  “should  design  and perform audit 
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances  for the purpose of obtaining  sufficient 
appropriate  audit evidence.”  AU-C § 500.06. Furthermore,  an auditor  should  “obtain  sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence  about whether  related party relationships  and transitions  have been 
appropriately  identified,  accounted for, and disclosed  in the financial  statements.”  AU-C 
§ 550.09. 

       35.    With respect to the collectability  of the receivable  “from  future  distributions  to the 
General  Partner,”  Beamish  looked only to the Fund’s capital account for the General  Partner, 
which  was fair  valued  at $15.3 million  as of December  31, 2012. As set forth in the LPA, the 
General Partner’s right to use the capital account was conditioned  on the performance of its 
management  duties (including,  among other things,  not breaching its fiduciary  duties  nor engaging 
in willful  or reckless misconduct  or fraud). Significantly,  the LPA provided that if the General 
Partner failed  to make its required capital  contributions  to the Fund, its right  to the capital  account 
could be substantially  impaired. As Beamish  and the PwC audit team were aware, the General 
Partner had not made its required capital contributions  from 2009 through  2012 and was instead 
adding the amount of the contributions  to the advanced management  fee balance each year. By 
relying  only on the value of the General Partner’s capital account, and failing  to consider that the 
General Partner did not make its required capital  contributions,  Beamish  failed  to obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence about the collectability  of the receivable.  Additionally,  when faced with 
inconsistent  audit evidence, “the auditor should determine what modifications  or additions to audit 

                                                  9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

procedures are necessary to resolve the matter…”   AU-C § 500.10.  In this situation,  Beamish 
failed  to identify  the contradictory  audit evidence and thus did not consider additional  audit 
procedures to test the collectability  of the receivable. 

       36.    Furthermore,  Beamish  relied on Burrill’s  representations  about the General 
Partner’s intent  to pay the receivable  through  its future  distributions  without  determining  whether 
Burrill  had authority  to bind the entity.  Beamish  did not inquire  whether the General  Partner’s 
governing  documents  permitted  Burrill  to commit  the future  distributions  of the General  Partner. 
Nor did Beamish  obtain evidence  of the financial  condition  of the General Partner to determine 
whether  the General  Partner was encumbered  by other financial  obligations.  Thus, Beamish’s 
failure  to scrutinize  the representations  made by Burrill  regarding  the intent  to pay the receivable 
“from  future  distributions  to the General Partner”  demonstrated  a significant  lack of professional 
skepticism  by Beamish  under the circumstances. 

       37.    Nor did Beamish  take any steps to verify  whether the Management  Company had 
the funds  to repay the receivable. Had Beamish  requested the Management  Company’s balance 
sheet, he would have discovered that the Management  Company had less than $1,600 in cash on 
hand as of December 31, 2012, and that its remaining  assets were illiquid  and arose out of related 
party transactions  with other Burrill  entities.   Generally  Accepted Accounting  Standards state that 
written  representations  “complement  other auditing  procedures and do not provide sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence  on their own about any of the matters with  which  they deal.”  AU-C 
580.04.  Additionally,  “if  written  representations  are inconsistent  with  other audit evidence,  the 
auditor should  perform  audit procedures to attempt to resolve the matter.”   AU-C 580.23.   
Instead, in violation  of the professional  standards required by GAAS, Beamish  relied only on 
Burrill’s  representations  about the sources and means of repayment. 

       38.    As in the year-end 2009-2011 audited financial  statements,  the Management  Fee 
footnote  to the Fund’s  year-end 2012 financial  statements  merely  described the amount  the 
General  Partner was legally  entitled  to receive over the course of the calendar year in accordance 
with the LPA. The footnote  did not disclose  that the Fund had actually  paid advanced 
management  fees, and contained  no references  to the amounts  described as “prepaid expenses” 
and “receivables”  on the balance sheet and in the Related Party footnote. 

       39.    With respect to the year-end 2012 audit specifically,  Beamish  was responsible  for 
obtaining  audit evidence  that “significant  related party transactions  outside the entity’s  normal 
course of business  . . . have been appropriately  authorized  and approved.” AU-C § 550.24. This 
he did not do. Beamish  and the audit team took no steps to determine  whether  the LPA permitted   
the payment  of management  fees in excess of what the General Partner would be entitled  to earn, 
or loans to related parties without  approval of an advisory  committee  of limited  partners. 

       40.    Beamish  failed  to maintain  professional  skepticism  with respect to the audit of the 
Fund’s year-end 2012 financial  statements,  as required  by GAAS (and in particular,  AU-C 
§ 200.08). Beamish  did not inquire  about the business  rationale  for taking  advanced management 
fees, even after BCM management  resisted  his proposed additional  disclosure  and “withdrew” 
the promissory  note, contrary to GAAS (and in particular,  AU-C § 240.32 and AU-C §§ 315.28-
29). By failing  to make inquiry  into these matters, and instead  relying  on the representations  of 
BCM management,  Beamish  fell  short of the professional  standards required  by GAAS.  

                                                 10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

I.      PricewaterhouseCoopers  Resigned as Auditor  of the Fund 

       41.    From the beginning  of 2013 through  the issuance  of the Fund’s  year-end 2012 
audited  financial  statements  on April  4, 2013, Burrill,  alone directing  the General  Partner, took 
an additional  $3.2 million  in advanced management  fees. After the audit  opinion  was issued, 
Burrill  took another  $1.15 million  in advanced management  fees through  July  2013. 

       42.    In late August  2013, the Fund’s investment  committee  became aware that 
virtually  all the committed  capital  in Fund III had been spent. Emergency  meetings  of the 
investment  committee  were convened. Over the following  weeks, the other members of the 
General  Partner were informed  that the Fund paid approximately  $18 million  in  advanced 
management  fees. The amounts  taken exceeded the amount  to which  the General Partner was 
entitled  to receive  over the contractual  life  of the Fund by millions  of dollars.   

       43.    In late October 2013, three members  of the General Partner sent a letter to the 
advisory  committee  of the limited  partners informing  them  of Burrill’s  misappropriation.  In 
response, the advisory  committee  of the limited  partners removed the General Partner, including 
Burrill,  from managing  the Fund.  

       44.    On November 6, 2013, BCM management  provided Beamish  with  several letters 
between BCM management  and various  limited  partners regarding  the misappropriation.    

       45.    On or about November  11, 2013, PricewaterhouseCoopers  resigned  as the auditor 
of the Fund.  

       46.    In 2014, the limited  partners agreed to recycle distribution  payments back into 
Fund III, in lieu of receiving  individual  distribution  pay-outs. They used the recycled money to 
meet the Fund’s financial  commitments  to its portfolio  companies and to stabilize  the Fund.  
        
J.      Violations 

       47.    As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent engaged  in improper 
professional  conduct within  the meaning  of Section  4C(a)(2) of the Exchange  Act and 
Rule  102(e)(1)(ii)  of the Commission’s  Rules of Practice. 

       48.    Section  4C of the Exchange  Act and Rule  102(e)(1)(ii)  provide, in part, that the 
Commission  may censure or deny, temporarily  or permanently,  the privilege  of appearing  or 
practicing  before the Commission  to any person who is found by the Commission  to have 
engaged in “improper  professional  conduct.”  In relevant  part, Section  4C(b)(2) and 
Rule  102(e)(1)(iv)(B)  define  “improper  professional  conduct”  as one of two types of negligent 
conduct:  (1) a single  instance  of highly  unreasonable  conduct in circumstances  for which 
heightened  scrutiny  is warranted;  or (2) repeated instances  of unreasonable  conduct that indicate 
a lack of competence.   

       49.    As discussed above, Respondent’s  failures  to conform  to applicable  professional 
standards found  in GAAS, in connection  with the audits of the year-end 2009, 2010, 2011, and 
2012 Fund III financial  statements,  constitute  repeated instances  of unreasonable  conduct.  In 
addition,  Respondent’s  failures  to conform  to the applicable  professional  standards  found in 

                                                 11 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

GAAS, in connection  with  the Fund’s  year-end 2012 financial  statements,  constitutes  an instance 
of highly  unreasonable  conduct under circumstances  that warranted heightened  scrutiny,  which  is 
required under  Rule  102(e)(1)(ii)  in instances  where significant  and unusual  transactions  take 
place, such as taking  millions  of dollars  in advanced fees beyond the life  of Fund.  

                                                III. 

       In view of the allegations  made by the Division  of Enforcement  and the Office  of the 
Chief  Accountant,  the Commission  deems it necessary and appropriate that public  administrative 
proceedings  be instituted  to determine: 

       A.      Whether the allegations  set forth in Section II hereof are true and, in connection 
therewith,  to afford Respondent  an opportunity  to establish  any defenses to such allegations;  and 

       B.      Whether, pursuant  to Section  4C of the Exchange  Act and Rule  102(e) of the 
Commission’s  Rules of Practice, Respondent  should  be censured or denied, temporarily  or 
permanently,  the privilege  of appearing  or practicing  before the Commission  as an accountant.   

                                                IV. 

       IT IS ORDERED  that a public  hearing  for the purpose of taking  evidence  on the 
questions  set forth in Section  III hereof shall  be convened at a time  and place to be fixed,  and 
before an Administrative  Law Judge to be designated  by further  order as provided by Rule  110 
of the Commission’s  Rules  of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.110. 

       IT IS FURTHER  ORDERED  that Respondent shall  file  an Answer to the allegations 
contained  in this Order within  twenty  (20) days after service of this Order, as provided by 
Rule  220 of the Commission’s  Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220. 

       If Respondent fails  to file  the directed answer, or fails  to appear at a hearing  after being 
duly notified,  the Respondent  may be deemed in default  and the proceedings  may be determined 
against  him  upon consideration  of this Order, the allegations  of which  may be deemed to be true 
as provided by Rules  155(a), 220(f), 221(f), and 310 of the Commission’s  Rules  of Practice, 
17 C.F.R. §§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f), and 201.310. 

       This Order shall  be served forthwith  upon Respondent as provided for in the 
Commission’s  Rules of Practice. 

       IT IS FURTHER  ORDERED  that, pursuant  to Rule  360(a)(2)(A) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice,  the Administrative  Law Judge shall  issue an initial  decision  no later than  120 
days from  the occurrence of one of the following  events:    (A) The completion  of post-hearing 
briefing  in a proceeding  where the hearing  has been completed;  (B) Where the hearing  officer 
has determined  that no hearing  is necessary, upon completion  of briefing  on a motion  pursuant  to 
Rule 250 of the Commission’s  Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.250; or (C) The determination 
by the hearing  officer  that a party is deemed to be in default  under Rule 155 of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.155 and no hearing  is necessary.    

                                                 12 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

       In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer  or employee  of the Commission 
engaged in the performance  of investigative  or prosecuting  functions  in this  or any factually 
related proceeding  will  be permitted  to participate  or advise in the decision  of this matter, except 
as witness  or counsel  in proceedings  held pursuant  to notice. Since this proceeding  is not “rule 
making”  within  the meaning  of Section  551 of the Administrative  Procedure Act, it is not 
deemed subject to the provisions  of Section  553 delaying  the effective  date of any final 
Commission  action. 
 

       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                       Brent J. Fields 
                                                       Secretary 

                                                  13 
