---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                        Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 76978 / January 27, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3735 / January 27, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17069 
 
                                               
                                               
                                               
In the Matter of                               
                                              ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
      JUSTIN MOONGYU                          ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS AND 
      LEE, ESQ., CPA                          IMPOSING TEMPORARY SUSPENSION 
                                              PURSUANT TO RULE  102(e)(3)(i) OF 
Respondent.                                    THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                         
                                               
 

                                                 

                                            I. 
                            
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in 
the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
                                                                        1
Justin Moongyu Lee  (“Respondent” or “J. Lee”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i)  of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice (17 C.F.R. § 200.102(e)(3)(i)).   
                                              
                                              

                                                           
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary 
      hearing, may, by order, temporarily suspend from appearing or practicing before 
      it any attorney, [or] accountant . . . who has been by name:  (A) Permanently 
      enjoined  by  any  court  of  competent  jurisdiction,  by  reason  of  his  or  her 
      misconduct  in  an  action brought  by  the Commission,  from  violating  . . .  any 
      provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 

 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               II. 
                                                 
       The Commission finds that:  
        
       1.     J. Lee, at all relevant times, was an attorney who was admitted to practice in 
California.  On July 1, 2014, J. Lee was suspended for failure to pay bar membership fees while 
disciplinary charges relating to the fraud alleged in the Commission’s injunctive action described 
below were pending against him.   
                
       2.     At all relevant times, J. Lee held a certified public accountant certificate in the 
State of Missouri.  He held himself out to investors as a certified public accountant.  

       3.      On September 3, 2014, the Commission filed a civil injunctive action against J. 
Lee, his wife Rebecca Taewon Lee (“R. Lee”), Thomas Edward Kent (“Kent”), and the 
following entities: American Immigrant Investment Fund I, LLC, (“AIIF”), Biofuel Venture IV, 
LLC, (“Biofuel IV”), Biofuel Venture V, LLC (“Biofuel V”), Nexland, Inc., dba Nexland 
Investment Group (“Nexland”), and Nexsun Ethanol, LLC (“Nexsun”) (collectively, the “Entity 
Defendants).  The Commission alleged that J. Lee and the others perpetrated a multimillion 
dollar investment scheme that defrauded foreign investors, who were seeking to obtain United 
States residency and, ultimately, citizenship, through the EB-5 visa program.  The Complaint 
alleges that J. Lee violated the antifraud provisions of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 
(“Securities Act”) and Section 10(b)  of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), 
and Rule 10b-5 thereunder. 
        
       4.      On October 29, 2015, the United States District Court for the Central District of 
California entered a final judgment against J. Lee and the Entity Defendants that he controlled, 
after granting the Commission’s motion for entry of final judgment by default.  In addition to 
enjoining J. Lee and the Entity Defendants from future violations of Section 17(a) of the 
Securities Act, and Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, the Court 
ordered that J. Lee and the Entity Defendants are jointly and severally liable for disgorgement of 
$7,210,000, plus interest of $1,052,403.73, for a total of $8,262,403.73, and further ordered J. 
Lee to pay a $150,000 civil penalty.   
        
       5.      In granting the Commission’s motion for entry of a final judgment by default, the 
Court found the facts pled in the Complaint were sufficient to establish violation of the antifraud 
provisions by J. Lee, including that:  
        
               a.      J. Lee founded, and was the CEO, of each of the Entity Defendants.  In 
addition to his role as CEO, he was the president, secretary, managing member, and/or the 
chairman of the board of directors of several of the Entity Defendants.  He was also the 
signatory on all bank accounts for each of these entities.  Further, J. Lee was the founder, CEO, 
and sole owner of a related entity, Kansas Biofuel Regional Center, LLC (“Kansas Biofuel”). 

               b.     The fraudulent scheme began in 2006, when J. Lee and Kent applied to 
the United States Citizenship and Immigration Service (“USCIS”) on behalf of Kansas Biofuel 
for designation as a regional center.  Among other representations, J. Lee and Kent represented 
to USCIS that, through Nexsun, they were going to construct and operate a new ethanol plant 

                                                2 
                                                 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

in Kansas that would create thousands of jobs and substantial economic benefit.  Once USCIS 
designated Kansas Biofuel as a regional center in 2007, J. Lee and Kent created various 
companies, including AIIF, Biofuel IV, and Biofuel V, through which to raise monies from 
immigrant investors.  From March 2009 to April 2011, defendants raised $11,455,000 from 
twenty-four investors through three offerings of shares in AIIF, Biofuel IV, and Biofuel V, to 
purportedly construct an ethanol plant in Kansas. 

              c.      The defendants, including J. Lee, misrepresented that the $11.5 million in 
investor monies raised was being used to construct and operate an ethanol plant in Kansas, that 
these investments qualified the investors to obtain U.S. residency citizenship, and that people 
had been employed for this venture.  Contrary to these representations, the ethanol plant was 
never built.  Instead, J. Lee and R. Lee misappropriated and misused most of the $11.5 million.  
In particular, they spent almost $3.9 million  to finance an unrelated project in the Philippines, 
and another $2.38 million to pay off investors in other offerings.  These expenditures were 
neither permissible under the EB-5 program nor disclosed to investors.  

              d.     To conceal their misuse of funds and failure to construct the ethanol plant, 
J. Lee and R. Lee caused employees to be hired by Nexsun, but paid them for performing tasks 
unrelated to construction of the ethanol plant.  Then, as required by USCIS, defendants 
submitted a Form I-9 to USCIS identifying each employee that they hired, which purportedly 
evidenced the required creation of jobs.  J. Lee signed the false documents submitted to USCIS.  
               
              e.      The facts alleged in the Complaint support a claim that J. Lee and the 
Entity Defendants made the misrepresentations and omissions, which were material, with the 
requisite scienter.  J. Lee was the “architect” of the entire fraudulent scheme.  He headed and 
controlled each of the Entity Defendants.  He signed the initial application to the USCIS for 
designation as a regional center in 2006 as President and CEO of Kansas Biofuel.  J. Lee also 
approved offering materials to each investor, which represented that their money would be 
invested in Nexsun to develop and operate an ethanol plant.  Further, J. Lee approved of all 
information regarding the purported Nexsun ethanol project that was disseminated at investor 
seminars from 2008 to 2010.  By 2009, preliminary construction of the ethanol plant ceased and 
construction of the ethanol plant was no longer feasible.  Nevertheless, J. Lee continued to make 
representations to investors and the USCIS that construction of the plant was ongoing. 
 
                                              III. 
 
       Based upon the foregoing, the Commission finds that a court of competent jurisdiction 
has permanently enjoined J. Lee from violating the Federal securities laws within the meaning of 
Rule 102(e)(3)(i)(A) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  In view of these findings, the 
Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest that J. Lee be temporarily suspended 
from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an attorney or an accountant.   

       IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that J. Lee be, and hereby is, temporarily suspended from 
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an attorney or an accountant.  This Order will 
be effective upon service on the Respondent.  

       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that J. Lee may, within thirty days after service of this 
Order, file a petition with the Commission to lift the temporary suspension.  If the Commission 

                                                3 
                                                 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

receives no petition within thirty days after service of the Order, the suspension will become 
permanent pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(ii).  

       If a petition is received within thirty days after service of this Order, the Commission 
will, within thirty days after the filing of the petition, either lift the temporary suspension, or set 
the matter down for hearing at a time and place to be designated by the Commission, or both.  If 
a hearing is ordered, following the hearing, the Commission may lift the suspension, censure the 
petitioner, or disqualify the petitioner from appearing or practicing before the Commission for a 
period of time, or permanently, pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(iii). 

       This Order shall be served upon J. Lee personally or by certified mail at his last known 
address or, if that address is in a foreign country, by any other method reasonably calculated to 
give notice and is not prohibited by the law of the foreign country where J. Lee may be found.  If 
J. Lee is located in the Republic of Korea, he may be served in accordance with the Hague 
Convention  on   the  Service   Abroad   of   Judicial   or   Extrajudicial   Documents  in   Civil   or 
Commercial Matters.   

        

       By the Commission. 

 

                                                     Brent J. Fields 
                                                     Secretary 
        

        

                                                 4 
                                                  
