---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                         Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 70823 / November 6, 2013 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3512 / November 6, 2013 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15609  
                                                  
                                                  
                                                 ORDER INSTITUTING  PUBLIC  
In the Matter of                                 ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE - 
                                                 AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT  
       SHERB & CO., LLP ,                        TO SECTIONS 4C AND 21C OF THE 
       STEVEN J. SHERB, CPA ,                    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
       CHRISTOPHER A. VALLEAU,            AND RULE 102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S 
       CPA, MARK MYCIO, CPA, and                                          
       STEVEN N. EPSTEIN, CPA               
                                                                                 
Respondent s.                                           
 
 
 
                                                  
 
                                             I. 

       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 
  1
4C  of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the 

                                                 
1
 Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
       “The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the 
privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess 
the requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to have engaged in 
unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the 
violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.” 
        

 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
                                2
Commission’s Rules of Practice  against Sherb & Co., LLP, Steven J. Sherb, CPA, Christopher A. 
Valleau, CPA, Mark Mycio,CPA, and Steven N. Epstein, CPA (collectively, “Respondents”), and 
pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act against Sherb & Co., LLP and Mark Mycio. 

                                                 II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making 
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth 
below.    
 
                                                III. 

                                                                                   3
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds     that:  

A.     SUMMARY 

       1.      Sherb & Co., LLP (“Sherb LLP”), three of its partners, Steven J. Sherb (“Sherb”), 
Christopher A. Valleau (“Valleau”) and Mark Mycio (“Mycio”), and an audit manager, Steven N. 
Epstein (“Epstein”), engaged in improper professional conduct within the meaning of Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. Sherb LLP, Sherb, Valleau and Epstein engaged in improper 
professional conduct in connection with the audit of the 2007 year-end financial statements of China 
Sky One Medical, Inc. (“CSKI”); Sherb LLP, Valleau, Mycio and Epstein engaged in improper 
professional conduct in connection with the audit of the 2010 year-end financial statements of China 
Education Alliance, Inc. (“CEU”); and Sherb LLP, Sherb, Valleau, Mycio and Epstein engaged in 
improper professional conduct with respect to some or all of the audits of the financial statements of 
Wowjoint Holdings Ltd. (“Wowjoint”) for the years ended August 31, 2008 and 2009, a four-month 
transition period ended December 31, 2009, and the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011.      

       2.      Sherb LLP and Mycio also violated Section 10A(b)(1) in connection with the CEU 
audit.   

                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: “The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, 
the privilege of appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or 
improper professional conduct.”   
3
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not binding on any other 
person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                                 2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
B.     RESPONDENTS 

       3.     Sherb & Co., LLP is a certified public accountancy partnership licensed in the 
State of New York, and has been registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight 
Board (the “PCAOB”) since 2003.  Sherb LLP audited and reviewed the financial statements of 
                             
CSKI for the 2007 year-end,and issued an unqualified audit report for CSKI’s 2007 financial 
statements that was included in CSKI’s 2007 Form 10-K filed on March 31, 2008.  Sherb LLP 
ceased to be CSKI’s auditor effective May 21, 2008.  Sherb LLP also audited CEU’s financial 
statements for fiscal years 2007 through 2010.  Sherb LLP issued an unqualified audit report for 
CEU’s 2010 financial statements that was included in CEU’s 2010 Form 10-K filed on April 15, 
2011.  Sherb LLP ceased to be CEU’s auditor effective March 12, 2012.  Sherb LLP audited 
Wowjoint’s financial statements for the years ended August 31, 2008 and 2009, a four-month 
transition period ended December 31, 2009, and the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011.  
Sherb LLP issued unqualified audit reports on these financial statements that were included by 
Wowjoint in its Form F-1 registration statements on May 3, 2010, its ten subsequent amendments, 
and three Forms 20-F filed on November 12, 2010, June 30, 2011, and April 20, 2012.  Sherb LLP 
resigned as Wowjoint’s auditor in April 2013. 

       4.     Steven J. Sherb, CPA  is the managing partner and sole equity partner of Sherb 
LLP, and is also responsible for Sherb LLP’s quality assurance and controls for all audits.  He is 
a certified public accountant licensed in New York, California, Florida, Georgia and Texas.  
Sherb served as the concurring partner for the audit of CSKI’s 2007 year-end financial 
statements, and as the concurring partner for audits of Wowjoint’s financial statements for the 
years ended August 31, 2008 and 2009, a four-month transition period ended December 31, 2009, 
and as engagement quality review partner for audits of the years ended December 31, 2010 and 
2011. 

       5.     Christopher A. Valleau, CPA is a non-equity partner of Sherb LLP and is a 
certified public accountant licensed in New York and Florida.  During the time relevant to this 
proceeding, Valleau served as the engagement partner for the audit of CSKI’s 2007 year-end 
financial statements. Valleau served as the engagement quality review partner for the audit of 
CEU’s 2010 year-end financial statements.  Valleau was the engagement partner for the audits of 
Wowjoint’s financial statements for the years ended August 31, 2008 and 2009, a four-month 
transition period ended December 31, 2009, and the year ended December 31, 2010.  

       6.      Mark Mycio, CPA is a certified public accountant licensed in New York, and was 
a non-equity partner with Sherb LLP in 2011 and 2012.  Mycio served as the engagement partner 
for the audit of CEU’s 2010 year-end financial statements, and was also assigned to be the 
engagement partner for the audits of Wowjoint’s 2010 and 2011 year-end financial statements.  
From 2009 through 2011, Mycio served as Chair of the Financial Accounting Standards 
Committee of the New York State Society of Certified Public Accountants.  

       7.     Steven N. Epstein, CPA is a certified public accountant who has been licensed in 
New York since 1991.  Epstein joined Sherb LLP in January 2005.  Epstein served as the 
engagement manager for the audit of CSKI’s 2007 year-end financial statements and the audits 

                                               3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
of Wowjoint’s financial statements for the years ended August 31, 2008 and 2009, a four-month 
transition period ended December 31, 2009, and the year ended December 31, 2010.  Epstein, in 
his capacity as a Sherb LLP senior audit manager, also performed key services in connection 
with the audit of CEU’s 2010 year-end financial statements.      

C.     FACTS 

                       2007  AUDIT   OF  CHINA   SKY   ONE  MEDICAL,     INC. 

       BACKGROUND     

       8.     CSKI was at all relevant times a Nevada corporation headquartered in Harbin, 
Heilongjiang Province, China.  CSKI’s common stock was registered with the Commission 
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act until June 12, 2012, and continues to be registered 
with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g).  The company’s stock traded on the Nasdaq 
Global Market under the symbol “CSKI” from September 14, 2008 through February 15, 2012, 
and currently trades on the OTC market.  At all relevant times, CSKI purported to manufacture 
and sell medicinal and diagnostic products, and all of its operations were carried out in China.   

                                                                                   
       9.     Sherb LLP audited CSKI’s financial statements for the 2007 year-end,and issued 
an unqualified audit report for CSKI’s 2007 financial statements that was included in CSKI’s 
2007 Form 10-K filed on March 31, 2008 (the “2007 CSKI Audit”). 

       10.    Valleau served as the engagement partner for the 2007 CSKI Audit.       

       11.    Sherb served as the concurring partner for the 2007 CSKI Audit. 

       12.    Epstein served as the engagement manager, assisting the engagement partner for 
the 2007 CSKI Audit.      

       CSKI   AUDIT F ACTS  

       The Commission Filed an Injunctive Action Against CSKI Based Upon Alleged 
       Misstatements of Revenue and Net Income in Its 2007 Form 10-K  

       13.    In 2007, CSKI reported in its filings with the Commission that it had entered into 
a strategic distribution agreement with a Malaysian distributor, pursuant to which the Malaysian 
distributor was appointed as CSKI’s “exclusive” distributor in Malaysia and undertook to 
generate $1 million per month in sales.  In its public filings, CSKI reported export sales to 

                                              4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 
Malaysia of over $12.2 million for 2007 (constituting 25% of its total revenues), all of which 
                                                              4
were for one product, CSKI’s slim patch weight loss product.    

       14.    CSKI’s Form 10-K for 2007 also identified its top two purported customers, 
Customer A and Customer B, which together accounted for 25% of CSKI’s total revenues for 
2007.  CSKI claimed Customer A and Customer B were sales agents for the Malaysian 
distributor, and that all of CSKI’s sales to Customer A and Customer B were export sales to 
Malaysia via the Malaysian distributor.   

       15.    In fact, the Malaysian distributor only purchased a total of $167,542 in slim 
patches from CSKI for 2007, a small fraction of what was reported in CSKI’s public filings.  
Moreover, the Malaysian distributor never entered into any distribution agreement with CSKI 
and never had any relationship with, or purchased any goods through, Customer A or Customer 
B.  

       16.    On September 4, 2012, the Commission filed an injunctive action in federal court 
against CSKI and its CEO for, among other things, fabricating export sales of its slim patch 
product and materially misstating its revenues and net income for fiscal year 2007.  The 
Commission’s complaint alleges that $12.2 million in revenue for CSKI’s purported export sales 
in 2007 were fabricated and should not have been recorded.  The case against CSKI and its CEO 
is pending. 
        
       Valleau, Epstein, and Sherb LLP Failed to Adequately Plan the 2007 CSKI Audit 

       17.    Under PCAOB Standard AU Section 311 (Planning and Supervision), an auditor 
must adequately plan the audit.  This standard requires that the auditor obtain a level of knowledge 
of the entity’s business that will enable him to plan and perform his audit in accordance with 
PCAOB Standards.  That level of knowledge should enable the auditor to obtain an understanding 
of the events, transactions, and practices that, in his judgment, may have a significant effect on the 
financial statements.  Knowledge of the entity’s business helps the auditor to identify areas that 
may need special consideration, assess conditions under which accounting data are produced, 
processed, reviewed and accumulated within the organization, and evaluate the reasonableness of 
management representations, among others.  (AU § 311.06)  In planning the audit, among other 
considerations, an auditor should consider matters such as the entity’s business, accounting policies 
and procedures and assessed level of control risk.  (AU § 311.03)   

       18.    As the engagement partner and manager of the 2007 CSKI Audit, respectively, 
Valleau and Epstein failed to adequately plan the audit.  They failed to obtain a proper 
understanding of CSKI’s business and environment, including its accounting policies and 

                                                 
4 
 CSKI reported extraordinary growth for fiscal year 2007, including increasing its revenues 148% from 2006’s 
$19.9 million to 2007’s $49.3 million.  CSKI’s slim patch sales purportedly increased from 2006’s $1.2 million to 
2007’s $12.3 million.  

                                                5  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 
procedures and internal controls.  Sherb LLP’s work papers for the planning phase of the audit 
process were inadequate and incomplete.   

       19.    Sherb LLP’s work papers required for the planning phase of the audit consist of 
only a few forms with generic checklists, and even these were not properly completed.  
Moreover, the work papers made no reference to CSKI’s significant distribution agreement with 
the Malaysian distributor, which purportedly accounted for 25% of CSKI’s total sales for 2007 
and was one of the main reasons CSKI’s revenues increased by 148% from 2006.  Valleau’s and 
Epstein’s inadequate understanding of CSKI’s business hampered their ability to identify the 
agreement with the Malaysian distributor as a contract possessing audit significance, and requiring 
additional or extended audit procedures.  Valleau and Epstein failed to inquire about or review the 
agreement with the Malaysian distributor, severely handicapping their chances of discovering that 
the agreement was not even signed by the Malaysian distributor, and that it did not mention 
Customer A and Customer B as the Malaysian distributor’s sales agents. 

       20.    Under PCAOB Standard AU Section 316 (Consideration of Fraud in a Financial 
Statement Audit), an auditor is required to plan an audit “to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether caused by error or 
fraud.”  Pursuant to this standard, the auditor should discuss among engagement personnel the risk 
of material misstatement due to fraud, and obtain information needed to identify such risk, 
including making inquiries of management and others within the company regarding such risk.  
(AU § 316, at .14-.27)  The auditor also should ordinarily presume that there is a risk of material 
misstatement due to fraud relating to revenue recognition.  (AU § 316.41)   

       21.    Valleau and Epstein did not adequately consider the risks of material misstatement 
due to fraud at CSKI in planning the 2007 CSKI Audit.  For example, there is no evidence in the 
work papers that they ever met to discuss the susceptibility of CSKI’s financial statements to 
material misstatement due to fraud, or that they ever inquired of CSKI management or its 
employees about fraud, and revenue recognition was not recognized as a fraud risk.  As a result, 
Valleau and Epstein failed to identify any fraud risks specific to CSKI, and did not design 
sufficient procedures to address the risks of fraud. 

       Sherb LLP Engaged a Contract Auditor to Perform Most of the 2007 CSKI Audit 
       Work, but Valleau and Epstein Did Not Adequately Supervise Her 

       22.    PCAOB Standard AU Section 311 (Planning and Supervision) requires that 
assistants be properly supervised.  This standard states that supervision involves directing the 
efforts of assistants who are involved in accomplishing the objectives of the audit and 
determining whether those objectives are accomplished.  Elements of supervision include 
instructing assistants, keeping informed of significant problems encountered, and reviewing the 
work performed, among others.  The extent of supervision appropriate in a given instance 
depends on many factors, including the complexity of the subject matter and the qualifications of 
persons performing the work.  (AU § 311.11-.13)  

                                                6  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 
       23.    Sherb LLP engaged a Hong Kong-based auditor (“contract auditor”) and her three-
person staff to perform all of the audit fieldwork for CSKI’s Chinese operations, which consisted 
of over 98% of CSKI’s total assets.  The contract auditor was the person who had introduced Sherb 
LLP to CSKI.  The contract auditor and her firm were not registered with the PCAOB.   

       24.    Valleau and Epstein did not have a complete understanding of the contract auditor’s 
qualifications.  The only inquiry Valleau and Epstein made into the contract auditor and her firm 
was to have a senior auditor from Sherb LLP, who spoke Chinese, call and question the contract 
auditor regarding her background.  There is no evidence that anyone from Sherb LLP verified the 
qualifications of the contract auditor, her firm, or her staff, to ensure they possessed adequate 
technical training and proficiency to work on the audit.  As a result, Valleau’s and Epstein’s 
supervision of the contract auditor and her staff was inadequate.  Since Valleau and Epstein never 
worked with the contract auditor and did not have an understanding of her background and 
qualifications, they should have closely supervised her to ensure the audit was executed properly.  
Valleau did not adequately supervise the contract auditor and only reviewed the work papers she 
prepared at the end of the audit.  Although Epstein purportedly was the primary contact with the 
contract auditor, there is no audit documentation evidencing the contract auditor’s communication 
with Epstein or participation in any meetings with the engagement team except for a single email 
between Epstein and the contract auditor.   

       25.    The work papers purportedly completed by the contract auditor and her staff 
contained numerous obvious errors and were incomplete.  In particular, the work papers showed 
instances of audit programs not being followed.  Additionally, the work papers were not correctly 
signed off by the contract auditor and the contract auditor failed to document her procedures in 
sufficient detail to provide a clear understanding of their purposes, sources, and the conclusions 
reached.  Valleau and Epstein signed off on all the deficient work papers prepared by the contract 
auditor and her staff.  

       The Audit Work Performed by the Contract Auditor, and Signed Off by Valleau 
       and Epstein, Raised Red Flags that Valleau and Epstein Did Not Properly 
       Investigate 

       26.    Under PCAOB Standard AU Section 326 (Evidential Matter), an auditor is required 
to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter through inspection, observation, inquiries, and 
confirmations to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the financial statements under 
audit.  In developing his opinion, an auditor should consider relevant evidential matter regardless 
of whether it appears to corroborate or to contradict the assertions in the financial statements.  
(AU § 326.25)  PCAOB Standards also state that evidential matter obtained from independent 
sources outside the entity provides greater assurance of reliability than information obtained 
                                        
solely within the entity. (AU § 326.21) In addressing an identified risk of material misstatement 
due to fraud, an auditor may need to change the nature, timing and extent of auditing procedures 
to obtain evidence that is more reliable or to obtain additional corroborative information.  For 
example, more evidential matter may be needed from independent sources outside the audited 
entity, such as information from public records about the existence and nature of key customers, 
vendors, or counterparties in a major transaction.  (AU § 316.52)   

                                                7  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 
       27.    Valleau and Epstein failed to obtain sufficient competent evidence to support Sherb 
LLP’s audit report for the 2007 CSKI Audit.  The contract auditor performed transaction testing of 
CSKI’s sales.  Over 80% of the sales transaction samples tested by the contract auditor were sales 
made to Customer A and Customer B.  Despite this, Valleau, Epstein and the contract auditor did 
not make any inquiries about Customer A or Customer B, did not attempt to identify their 
purported relationship with the Malaysian distributor, and did not ask to review the agreement 
between CSKI and the Malaysian distributor.   

       28.    During the sales testing, the auditors discovered that CSKI did not have any value-
added tax (“VAT”) sales invoices in its records for its sales to Customer A and Customer B.  There 
were VAT invoices for other CSKI customers.  VAT invoices are one of the main documents 
                                                          5
Chinese companies use to record and track sales revenues.     The  VAT invoices would have been a 
way for the auditors to substantiate the purported significant sales to Customer A and Customer B. 

       29.    When the contract auditor discovered that there were no VAT sales invoices for 
CSKI’s sales to Customers A and B, she made an inquiry with CSKI.  A CSKI manager told the 
contract auditor that there were no VAT sales invoices because Customer A and Customer B were 
sales agents for overseas customers and that those customers did not request VAT sales invoices.  
This explanation is highly suspect because VAT invoices are one of the main ways in which an 
overseas customer would have been able to claim a credit for or refunds of VAT from the Chinese 
government.  Because Customer A and Customer B would have been entitled to a VAT refund of 
over $2 million, CSKI’s explanation that Customer A and Customer B never requested VAT 
invoices was a significant red flag warranting further inquiry.  Furthermore, the audit team’s VAT 
payable testing indicated that VAT was paid by all customers including Customer A and Customer 
B.  Valleau and Epstein nonetheless accepted the explanation given by the CSKI manager that the 
overseas customers did not request VAT invoices, and included that explanation in Sherb LLP’s 
work papers without expressing any concerns about that unlikely explanation. 

       30.    The contract auditor performed additional audit procedures for sales made to 
Customer A and Customer B by inspecting CSKI’s “goods delivery notes” and bank statements.  
However, such procedures did not produce sufficient competent evidence that the purported sales 
were actually made and revenues were earned.  According to the audit work papers, the “goods 
delivery notes” the contract auditor inspected appeared to be generated internally by CSKI.  
These basic forms reflected the product name, unit, and sales price, but did not evidence that the 
goods were actually sold, shipped to or accepted by Customer A and Customer B.  In fact, there 
is not even a customer address printed on the notes.  The contract auditor also traced sales 
amounts to bank statements.  Yet this testing was insufficient because the bank statements did 
not identify payor information, and the contract auditor did not review any documents to 
determine whether the deposits shown on the bank statements actually reflected cash collected 
for sales made to Customer A and Customer B.  Indeed, the sales proceeds purportedly deposited 
by Customer A and Customer B took place before the purchases (sometimes over 20 days prior 
                                                 
5
 In China, a standard VAT of 17% is imposed on all sales of goods, imports and certain services.  Exports outside 
China are entitled to refunds of VAT.   

                                                 8  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

 
to the purchase), which is inconsistent with both CSKI’s credit policy and its agreement with the 
Malaysian distributor. 

       31.    Valleau and Epstein signed off on the contract auditor’s sales testing, without 
properly inquiring about the red flags identified by the lack of VAT invoices and CSKI’s 
problematic explanation, and without properly evaluating the additional procedures performed and 
evidence reviewed by the contract auditor.  Valleau and Epstein should have heightened their 
professional skepticism when presented with these red flags, because sales had been identified as a 
high risk area for the CSKI audit. 

        Valleau and Epstein Failed to Exercise Due Professional Care 

       32.    Under PCAOB Standard AU Section 230 (Due Professional Care in the 
Performance of Work), auditors are required to exercise due professional care throughout the audit.  
Due professional care requires that the auditor exercise professional skepticism.  Under this 
standard, “[p]rofessional skepticism is an attitude that includes a questioning mind and a critical 
assessment of audit evidence.” 

       33.    Valleau and Epstein failed to exercise due professional care when planning the 
2007 CSKI Audit and reviewing the audit procedures with respect to sales revenues and the 
preparation of the audit report.  Valleau and Epstein failed to plan and perform the audit properly 
to provide reasonable assurance of detecting material errors or irregularities in the financial 
statements, and failed to exercise sufficient professional skepticism.  Valleau and Epstein also 
failed to be skeptical about the sales testing and CSKI’s explanation for the missing VAT invoices, 
and failed to probe how sales made to Customer A and Customer B were processed, approved, and 
recorded, and ignored the inconsistencies presented in the evidence and explanations obtained.  

       Sherb Failed to Perform an Adequate Concurring Partner Review 

       34.    Sherb served as concurring partner on the CSKI audit engagement, including the 
2007 CSKI Audit.  As such, he was required to perform an objective review of significant auditing, 
accounting, and financial reporting matters and to conclude, based on all the relevant facts and 
circumstances of which he had knowledge, that no matters had come to his attention that would 
cause him to believe that CSKI’s financial statements were not in conformity with GAAP in all 
                                                                                            6
material respects or that the audit was not performed in accordance with PCAOB Standards.     

       35.    Sherb did not perform the required review.  Sherb did not participate in any 
meetings or discussions with Valleau or the engagement team about the identification and audit of 
high-risk transactions and account balances.  Even though Sherb signed off on two concurring 
review checklists, he did not note the extremely inadequate planning and risk assessment 

                                                 
6
 See Interim Quality Control Standards, AICPA SEC Practice Section (“SECPS”) § 1000.08(f) and Appendix E of 
SECPS § 1000.39.  These standards were adopted by the PCAOB in April 2003.  Sherb LLP was a member of the 
AICPA SEC Practice Section.  Therefore, these standards were applicable at the time of the relevant conduct.    

                                                 9  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

 
process, and did not raise concerns about the quality and documentation of the process.  As a 
result, Sherb failed to review or obtain sufficient information necessary for him to perform a 
meaningful concurring partner review.   

       Valleau, Epstein and Sherb LLP Failed to Prepare and Retain Adequate Audit 
       Work Papers 

       36.    Under PCAOB Standard No. 3 (Audit Documentation), “[a]udit documentation 
must contain sufficient information to enable an experienced auditor, having no previous 
connection with the engagement:  (a) to understand the nature, timing, extent, and results of the 
procedures performed, evidence obtained, and conclusions reached, and (b) to determine who 
performed the work and the date such work was completed as well as the person who reviewed the 
work and the date of such review.” 

       37.    Valleau, Epstein and Sherb LLP failed to ensure that the audit team documented the 
work they performed in a manner consistent with PCAOB Standard No. 3.  For example, Valleau 
and Epstein repeatedly claimed they had performed planning and risk assessment procedures for 
the 2007 CSKI Audit, but no audit documentation regarding their claimed work exists in the work 
papers of Sherb LLP.  They were also unable to explain or understand certain evidence and 
conclusions documented by the contract auditor and her staff.  

       Sherb LLP Failed to Issue an Accurate Audit Report 

       38.    PCAOB Standards require that the auditor’s report contain an opinion on the 
financial statements taken as a whole and contain a clear indication of the character of the auditor’s 
work.  Under PCAOB Standard AU Section 508 (Reports on Audited Financial Statements), the 
auditor can determine that he is able to issue an audit report containing an unqualified opinion only 
if he has conducted his audit in accordance with PCAOB Standards.  

       39.    As the engagement partner with final responsibility for the CSKI audit, Valleau 
approved the issuance of the unqualified audit report that falsely stated that the auditors conducted 
their audit in accordance with PCAOB Standards, when in reality they had not.   

       Valleau and Sherb LLP Failed to Communicate with CSKI’s Predecessor Auditors 

       40.    Under PCAOB Standard AU Section 315 (Communications Between Predecessor 
and Successor Auditors), an auditor should not accept an engagement until certain communications 
have been evaluated.  Those communications include inquiries of the predecessor auditors about the 
integrity of management, disagreements with management regarding accounting principles or 
auditing procedures, communications with the audit committee regarding client fraud or illegal acts, 
and the reason for the change of auditors.  
        
       41.    Valleau and Sherb LLP failed to timely undertake this “necessary procedure”.  They 
did not communicate with CSKI’s former auditors before agreeing to the audit engagement with 
CSKI.  Only after Sherb LLP accepted CSKI as a client did the firm send inquiry letters to the  

                                               10   
---------------------Page 11---------------------

 
        
former auditors.  Moreover, Valleau did not properly follow up with their inquiries.  One of the 
former auditors responded to the inquiries on March 24, 2008, and the other responded on March 
31, 2008 - the same day CSKI filed its Form 10-K. 

                 2010 AUDIT OF CHINA EDUCATION ALLIANCE, INC. 

       BACKGROUND     

       42.    China Eduation Alliance, Inc. (“CEU”) is a North Carolina corporation with 
headquarters and operations in Harbin, China.  CEU claims that it provides educational products 
and tutoring services to primary school students online and through training centers located in 
China. CEU has never had any business operations in the United States.  CEU’s common stock is 
registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act.  The company’s 
stock was traded on the New York Stock Exchange from January 27, 2010 through December 28, 
2011, and currently trades on the OTC market.  

       43.    Sherb LLP issued an unqualified audit report for CEU’s 2010 financial statements 
that were included in CEU’s 2010 Form 10-K filed on April 15, 2011.   

       44.    Mycio served as the engagement partner and supervised and conducted Sherb 
LLP’s audit of CEU’s 2010 financial statements (hereinafter, the “2010 CEU Audit”).  As the 
engagement partner, Mycio was responsible for the issuance of Sherb LLP’s unqualified audit 
report for CEU’s 2010 financial statements, and was responsible for ensuring that the audit was 
conducted in accordance with PCAOB Standards. 

       45.    Epstein, in his capacity as a Sherb LLP senior audit manager, performed key 
services in connection with the audit of CEU’s 2010 year-end financial statements.  

       46.    Valleau served as the engagement quality review partner for the 2010 CEU Audit.  

       CEU   AUDIT  FACTS  

       Mycio and Sherb LLP Failed to Adequately Plan and Supervise the Audit 

       47.      Under PCAOB Standard AU Section 311 (Planning and Supervision), an auditor 
must adequately plan and supervise the audit.  This standard provides guidance on the 
considerations and procedures applicable to planning and supervision, including preparing an audit 
program, obtaining knowledge of the entity’s business, and dealing with differences of opinion 
among firm personnel.   

       48.    Mycio failed to conduct any formal audit planning meetings or to formulate an 
audit plan before commencing work on the 2010 CEU Audit.  Mycio also failed to conduct 
sufficient inquiry into CEU’s business developments and public filings both prior to and during the 
2010 CEU Audit.  Further, although Sherb LLP engaged a Hong Kong-based contract auditor to 

                                              11   
---------------------Page 12---------------------

 
perform much of the audit fieldwork, Mycio failed to provide adequate instructions to the contract 
auditor prior to the commencement of her fieldwork.   

       49.    Mycio also failed to adequately supervise the Sherb LLP staff auditors working on 
the 2010 CEU Audit.  In particular, Mycio did not provide these staff auditors with specific 
guidance on the performance of audit procedures to be conducted to verify CEU’s bank account 
balances and revenue.  Mycio also failed to adequately review the work performed by his staff.  
For example, Mycio assigned Epstein to perform certain procedures for the verification of CEU’s 
fixed assets, but never communicated with him to confirm that those procedures had been 
performed.  In fact, Epstein did not perform the assigned asset verification. 

       50.    PCAOB Standard AU Section 316 (Consideration of Fraud in a Financial 
Statement Audit) provide that an auditor is required to plan an audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether caused by error 
or fraud.  (AU § 316.01.) 

       51.    Mycio failed to conduct an adequate assessment of audit risks prior to the 2010 
CEU Audit fieldwork.  Mycio photocopied a fraud risk assessment memorandum from a prior 
audit of CEU in which he had not been involved, changed several dates, crossed out the name of 
the prior engagement partner, and inserted his own name.  In that memorandum, Mycio purported 
that he conducted audit risk interviews with members of CEU’s management, a member of CEU’s 
audit committee, and a CEU employee.  In fact, Mycio did not conduct any audit risk interviews.  
Mycio also failed to complete a risk assessment summary form, which is intended to document 
specific audit risks and planned responses.  The 2010 CEU Audit work papers contained a risk 
assessment summary form that Mycio had initialed but otherwise left blank. 

       Mycio, Epstein, and Sherb LLP Failed to Obtain Sufficient Evidential Matter 

       52.    Under PCAOB Standard AU Section 326 (Evidential Matter at .01), an auditor is 
required to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter through inspection, observation, inquiries, 
and confirmations to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the financial statements 
under audit.  Under PCAOB Standard AU Section 330 (The Confirmation Process at .28), an 
auditor performing confirmation procedures should establish direct communication between the 
intended recipient and the auditor to minimize the possibility that the results will be biased because 
of interception and alteration of the confirmation requests or responses.     

       53.    Mycio and the engagement team failed to obtain sufficient competent evidence 
through confirmation of CEU’s bank account balances.  CEU reported that a vast majority of its 
assets at year-end 2010 were held as cash deposits at a number of banks.  CEU also purported that 
it conducted a significant amount of business activities in cash throughout the year.  These factors 
posed significant audit risks and required specific audit procedures to address those risks.  
Moreover, by early 2011, Mycio and Epstein had become aware of information that warranted 
heightened audit scrutiny of CEU’s bank account cash balances, including media reports of fraud 
involving China-based issuers and specific public allegations of fraud at CEU.  

                                               12   
---------------------Page 13---------------------

 
       54.    On several occasions in connection with the 2010 CEU Audit, Mycio, Epstein and 
the audit team failed to obtain adequate verification of CEU’s bank account balances.   During a 
field visit to Harbin in early March 2011, a Sherb LLP staff auditor attempted unsuccessfully to 
obtain bank statements directly from the banks where CEU claimed that it held its accounts.   At 
one bank, a bank employee told the staff auditor that the bank could not print out CEU’s bank 
statements, even though the staff auditor had called that same bank anonymously beforehand and 
had been told that statements could be printed for a small fee.  In late March 2011, another team 
under Mycio’s supervision attempted to obtain bank statements directly from the banks.  The banks 
refused to provide bank statements to this team as well. 

       55.    In April 2011, days before Sherb LLP issued an unqualified report for CEU’s 2010 
financial statements, Epstein, at Mycio’s direction, visited Harbin to make a third and final attempt 
to obtain bank statements directly from the banks.  Prior to his visit, Epstein specifically requested 
CEU management that he personally obtain CEU’s bank statements from branch managers at the 
banks.  Despite these instructions, a CEU employee went to the first bank prior to Epstein’s arrival 
and purportedly obtained the bank statements from the bank.  The CEU employee then gave the 
purported bank statements to Epstein in the lobby of the bank when he arrived.  Epstein was unable 
to meet with any bank official at that bank nor did he witness the procurement of the bank 
statements.  At the second bank, Epstein was given a set of bank statements by a purported bank 
teller who refused to provide her name.  A purported manager at that bank refused to give Epstein 
her business card and declined to authenticate the bank statements.  Despite his inability to obtain 
the account statements directly from the banks as called for by the planned audit procedures, 
Epstein drafted a memorandum for the audit engagement team expressing the conclusion that the 
bank statements he obtained were authentic.  Thus, despite multiple field visits to Harbin in March 
and April 2011, Mycio, Epstein and the audit team failed to complete audit procedures and obtain 
sufficient competent evidence for the verification of CEU’s bank account balances. 

       56.    Mycio and the engagement team also failed to obtain sufficient competent evidence 
to confirm CEU’s reported training center revenue.   In March 2011, Sherb LLP staff auditors 
under Mycio’s supervision attempted to visit various training centers operated by CEU, and to 
review student records at those training centers.  The Sherb LLP staff auditors allowed CEU 
management to select the training center locations they would visit, and kept no records of the 
training centers that they visited.  When the audit team asked the staff at one of the training centers 
to allow them to review student application records, the CEU manager accompanying the audit 
team asserted that those records were confidential and the audit team was not allowed to review 
them. Moreover, at one training center purportedly operated by CEU, the center’s staff demanded 
to know the identities of the CEU managers and the Sherb LLP auditors and the purpose of their 
visit.  According to the Sherb LLP staff auditor, the CEU managers then hastily exited from that 
training center with the Sherb LLP staff auditors, who concluded based on the unusual encounter 
that the training center did not belong to CEU.  Despite receiving a report from a staff auditor 
expressing concern regarding these irregularities, Mycio did not undertake any further procedures 
to obtain the necessary information or to address the concerns raised by the suspicious encounters 
at the training centers.  During his visit to Harbin in April 2011, Epstein visited certain purported 
CEU training centers.  Epstein, however, did not select which training centers he was taken to and 

                                                13   
---------------------Page 14---------------------

 
then only walked through the training centers, but did not perform any substantive audit procedures 
regarding CEU’s reported training center revenue. 

       57.    Mycio and the engagement team also failed to obtain sufficient competent evidence 
regarding CEU’s fixed assets.  CEU reported a 51% increase in its fixed assets at year-end 2010 
from the prior year.  Despite this, Mycio did not conduct any physical inspection of fixed assets or 
undertake any analytical procedures to evaluate whether the quantity and type of those fixed assets 
were reasonable for the nature and scale of CEU’s purported business operations.  In April 2011, 
Mycio directed Epstein to perform certain limited procedures to verify CEU’s fixed assets during 
Epstein’s visit to Harbin.  However, Epstein accepted questionable explanations from CEU and did 
not perform those limited procedures.  Finally, Mycio failed to communicate with Epstein about 
whether the limited procedures were appropriately completed and the results of those procedures. 

       Mycio, Epstein, and Sherb LLP Failed to Exercise Due Professional Care 

       58.    Under PCAOB Standard AU Section 230 (Due Professional Care in the 
Performance of Work), auditors are required to exercise due professional care throughout the audit.  
Due professional care requires that the auditor exercise professional skepticism.  Under this 
standard, professional skepticism is an attitude that includes a questioning mind and a critical 
assessment of audit evidence.  (AU § 230, at .01-.02, .07-.08.) Mycio failed to exercise due 
professional care when planning and supervising the audit; Mycio and Epstein failed to exercise 
due professional care when verifying CEU’s bank account balances and when performing 
procedures on training center revenue and fixed assets. 

       Sherb LLP and Mycio Failed to Investigate and Report a Potentially Illegal Act 

       59.    In March 2011, at the end of a field visit during which Sherb LLP staff auditors 
under Mycio’s supervision had been unable to obtain bank statements and had been taken to a 
training center that apparently did not belong to CEU, a Sherb LLP staff auditor reported to Mycio 
that a CEU manager offered him an apparent bribe in an attempt to influence the 2010 CEU Audit.  
Mycio failed to investigate this reported bribe, and he did not address the reported bribe with any 
member of CEU’s management or board of directors. 

       Mycio, Epstein, and Sherb LLP Failed to Prepare and Retain Adequate Audit Work 
       Papers 

       60.    Under PCAOB Standard No. 3 (Audit Documentation at .6), audit documentation 
must contain sufficient information to enable an experienced auditor, having no previous 
connection with the engagement to (a) understand the nature, timing, extent, and results of the 
procedures performed, evidence obtained, and conclusions reached; and (b) determine who 
performed the work and the date such work was completed as well as the person who reviewed the 
work and the date of such review.  The audit documentation also must include information the 
auditor has identified relating to significant findings or issues that is inconsistent with or 
contradicts the auditor's final conclusions.  (AS No.3 at .8.) 

                                               14   
---------------------Page 15---------------------

 
       61.    Mycio and Epstein failed to prepare and retain adequate audit 
documentation.  Mycio signed audit work papers that were left completely blank or that were 
photocopied from the prior year’s audit work papers and purported to reflect audit work that was 
not actually performed during the 2010 CEU Audit.  Moreover, the audit work papers did not 
contain any information other than the memorandum prepared by Epstein about the failed attempt 
to perform bank statement verification procedures in late March 2011, the irregularities 
encountered during the audit team’s attempts to visit training center locations in March 2011, or 
the attempted bribe reported by a staff auditor.   

       Mycio and Sherb LLP Were Responsible for the Issuance of an Inaccurate Audit 
       Report 
                                                 
       62.    PCAOB Standard AU Section 508 (Reports on Audited Financial Statements at .04 
and .07) requires that the auditor’s report contain an opinion on the financial statements taken as a 
whole and contain a clear indication of the character of the auditor’s work.  The auditor can 
determine that he is able to issue an audit report containing an unqualified opinion only if he has 
conducted his audit in accordance with PCAOB Standards.  

       63.    As the engagement partner with final responsibility for the CEU audit, Mycio 
approved the issuance of the unqualified audit report that falsely stated that the audit was 
conducted in accordance with PCAOB Standards.   

       Valleau Was Disqualified to Serve As the Engagement Quality Reviewer 

       64.    PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 7 (Engagement Quality Review at .8) provides that 
the person who served as the engagement partner during either of the two audits preceding the 
audit subject to the engagement quality review may not be the engagement quality reviewer.     

       65.    Valleau served as the engagement partner for Sherb LLP’s audit of CEU’s 2008 
financial statements.  Valleau thus was disqualified from serving as the engagement quality 
reviewer for the 2010 Audit because he had served as the engagement partner during one of the 
two preceding audits.  Sherb LLP assigned Valleau as the engagement quality reviewer even 
though he was disqualified from serving in that role. 

       Valleau Failed to Conduct an Adequate Engagement Quality Review 

       66.    PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 7 (at .10-.11) provides that an engagement quality 
reviewer should evaluate the engagement team’s significant judgments and related conclusions, 
including its assessment of and responses to significant risks, and, for the documentation reviewed 
by the engagement quality reviewer when performing the engagement quality review, that the 
documentation indicates that the engagement team responded appropriately to significant risks, and 
supports the conclusions reached by the engagement team with respect to the matters reviewed.   

       67.    Prior to and during the audit, Valleau became aware of information that indicated a 
need for heightened audit scrutiny, including media reports of fraud involving China-based issuers  

                                               15   
---------------------Page 16---------------------

 
and specific public allegations of fraud at CEU.  Valleau also became aware that the audit 
engagement team had failed repeatedly to perform procedures sufficient to verify CEU’s bank 
account balances, and that the engagement team had encountered irregularities and red flags when 
attempting to verify CEU’s training center revenue.  Valleau further became aware of a staff 
auditor’s report that a CEU manager had attempted to bribe him.  

       68.    Despite this, Valleau failed to properly evaluate the audit team’s significant 
judgments and its responses to significant risks.  Specifically, Valleau failed to perform his own 
evaluation of the audit engagement team’s conclusions with respect to the auditing of CEU’s bank 
account balances and training center revenue.  Valleau also failed to conduct a reasonable and 
appropriate evaluation and follow-up of the field auditor’s allegation of an attempted bribe.  

       69.    Valleau also failed to assess the engagement team’s audit documentation that he 
reviewed when performing the engagement quality review.  Even though he was aware of 
numerous red flags and troubling irregularities encountered by the engagement team, Valleau did 
not ensure that the audit work papers documented those red flags and how they were addressed by 
the audit team.  Valleau also signed off on forms and checklists, including a Fraud Risk 
Information Form and Risk Assessment Summary Form, which were left blank or were copied 
from a prior audit.     

                                   WOWJOINT AUDITS 

       B ACKGROUND     

       70.    Wowjoint is a Cayman Islands company with headquarters and operations in and 
around Beijing, China.  Wowjoint claims that its operating subsidiary, Beijing Wowjoint, designs, 
engineers, and manufactures large, customized industrial equipment used in construction of 
Chinese transportation infrastructure, including roads, railroads, subways, bridges, and viaducts.  
Wowjoint’s ordinary shares, warrants, and units are registered with the Commission pursuant to 
Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act.  The company’s securities (symbols “BWOWF” and 
“BWOWU”) were traded on Nasdaq in 2010, but were delisted in 2011, and currently trade on the 
OTC market. 

       71.    Sherb LLP issued audit reports for Wowjoint’s financial statements for the years 
ended August 31, 2008 and 2009, a four-month transition period ended December 31, 2009, and 
the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011 that were included in Wowjoint’s Forms 20-F filed 
on November 12, 2010, June 30, 2011 and April 30, 2012, respectively, and a registration 
statement on Form F-1 first filed on May 3, 2010, with ten subsequent amendments filed through 
December 12, 2011. 

       W OWJOINT   A UDITS  FACTS  

       Valleau and Epstein Failed to Adequately Plan and Supervise the Audits 

       72.    PCAOB Standards require an auditor to adequately plan the audit and properly 
supervise assistants.  AU Section 150.02 (Generally Accepted Auditing Standards) and AU 
                                               16   
---------------------Page 17---------------------

 
Section  311.01 (Planning and Supervision).  PCAOB Standard AU 311 at .06  requires that the 
auditor obtain a level of knowledge of the entity’s business that will enable him to plan and 
perform his audit in accordance with PCAOB Standards.  Valleau failed to properly plan the 
audit and properly supervise his assistants, and failed to obtain sufficient knowledge about 
Wowjoint’s business, including its accounting policies and procedures and its internal controls.  
Although Valleau was the engagement partner for the 2008-2010 audits, he had minimal 
involvement, if any, in these audits. Valleau was not even copied on most email communications 
concerning audit issues. Valleau also did not charge any time to this client until May 2011. 
Valleau’s lack of involvement left Epstein to provide most, if not all, of the day to day 
supervision and management of the audits.  Epstein reviewed the work papers prepared by the 
audit team, including those of other audit managers. Epstein dealt directly with Wowjoint senior 
management and Wowjoint’s SEC counsel. Epstein also primarily communicated Sherb LLP’s 
consents and approvals to Wowjoint’s SEC counsel. Valleau’s supervision of the audit and his 
review of the audit work papers were grossly deficient. 

       73.    PCAOB Quality Control Standards require that “[Audit firms should] have in place 
internal quality-control procedures to ensure that services are competently delivered and 
adequately supervised.”  (QC § 20.02)  They also require that audit firms establish policies and 
procedures “to provide the firm with reasonable assurance that…work is assigned to personnel 
having the degree of technical training and proficiency required in the circumstances.” (QC § 
40.02) Wowjoint’s use of the Percentage of Completion (“POC”) accounting method to compute 
its contract revenue for U.S. reporting purposes, and its specialized heavy equipment 
manufacturing business, requires an auditor with sufficient knowledge of that accounting method 
and industry, respectively.  Sherb LLP, and its managing partner Sherb, in particular, failed to 
assign staff with the requisite technical training and proficiency necessary to perform the audits as 
required under QC § 20.13(b).  Prior to the Wowjoint engagement, Epstein had never worked on 
an audit of a heavy machinery manufacturer that used the POC method to calculate revenue to be 
recognized, and had an inadequate understanding of the POC method.  Although Sherb LLP 
assigned one staff member with experience with the POC accounting method used in Taiwan for 
the audits of the periods ended August 31, 2008 and 2009, he had no experience in the audit of the 
POC accounting method used in the U.S.  In planning for the 2008-2010 audits, Epstein claimed 
he researched and studied the POC accounting method to determine revenue for contracts, but he 
                                                                      7
could neither explain the fundamentals of the POC accounting method,    nor how Sherb LLP 
performed its testing of Wowjoint’s revenue computation.    

       74.    PCAOB Standard AU Section 342 (Auditing Accounting Estimates at .04) states,  
“The auditor is responsible for evaluating the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by 
management in the context of the financial statements taken as a whole.” It also requires the 
auditor to use one or a combination of the following approaches to evaluate the reasonableness 
of management’s accounting estimates: (a) review and test the process used by management to 

                                                 
7
 While there may be complexities in determining the costs incurred to date, total estimated costs and total estimated 
project revenue, the simple arithmetic for the percentage of completion for a project is total cost incurred divided by 
total estimated costs for that project. 

                                                17   
---------------------Page 18---------------------

 
develop the estimate; (b) develop an independent expectation of the estimate to corroborate the 
reasonableness of management’s estimate; (c) review subsequent events or transactions 
occurring prior to the date of the auditor’s report. (AU § 342.10.)  Sherb LLP failed to plan and 
design adequate audit procedures to test the reasonableness of Wowjoint’s estimates of revenue 
under each contract.  Valleau and Epstein failed to plan adequate procedures to test two critical 
components used in the POC computation, the total estimated costs for each project and the total 
costs already incurred on that project.  This planning failure is especially problematic in light of 
Sherb LLP’s assessment during the client acceptance process that Wowjoint’s financial reporting 
system appeared to be “insufficient to provide evidence to support that transactions have occurred 
and that all the transactions that should be recorded are, in fact, recorded.”  Sherb LLP’s failure to 
properly test those two components allowed Wowjoint’s omission of certain costs to go undetected 
for the first two financial periods that Sherb LLP audited.   

       75.    Valleau and Epstein also failed to recognize and adequately address the audit and 
accounting issues related to certain contracts with unusual payment structures involving a third 
party (“Wowjoint’s contract co-party”).  Wowjoint’s contract co-party was a co-party with 
Wowjoint on several of Wowjoint’s machinery contracts whereby Wowjoint’s customers are 
required to make payments to Wowjoint’s contract co-party instead of Wowjoint.  Wowjoint’s 
contract co-party collected the payments for those contracts, and was supposed to reimburse 
Wowjoint promptly after deductions for commissions and other fees.  Wowjoint’s contract co-
party, however, withheld a significant amount of such funds, leaving Wowjoint with a large 
accounts receivable balance.  As of December 31, 2009, the largest outstanding receivable was due 
from Wowjoint’s contract co-party, which constituted 43% of all outstanding accounts receivable. 
Sherb LLP failed to evaluate the reasonableness of this unusual business arrangement, the related 
accounting disclosure requirements, and how it ultimately affected the collectability of its 
receivables.  

       The Audit Team Failed to Test Wowjoint’s Revenue Computations 

       76.    Valleau and Epstein’s lack of proper audit planning, failure to design and perform 
adequate audit procedures to test the critical components of the POC formula, lack of knowledge 
of common Chinese business practices and accounting, and Epstein’s inadequate understanding of 
the POC method, resulted in their failure to verify that Wowjoint correctly computed and recorded 
its contract-based revenue.  Due to the lack of adequate audit procedures, Valleau and Epstein 
failed to detect Wowjoint’s errors in converting from cash basis accounting, a common Chinese 
GAAP practice, to accrual accounting for U.S. reporting purposes. 

       77.    U.S. GAAP requires an accrual basis of accounting. The revenue computed by 
Wowjoint was purported to be based on a POC method, which generally calculates revenue to be 
recognized by dividing the costs incurred as of the measurement date on an individual project into 
the projected total costs for the completed project.  Costs incurred but not recorded must be 
accrued under U.S. GAAP.  Projected total costs for a project also requires periodic updating to 
reflect changes in costs and quantity of materials, inflation, and other unforeseen costs.  The 
quotient of costs incurred into projected total costs is factored against the projected revenue for a 
project to determine the revenue to be recognized during that fiscal period (after subtracting 

                                                18   
---------------------Page 19---------------------

 
revenue already recognized in prior periods) for that project.  Accordingly, the numerator and 
denominator in that formula are integral to revenue recognition and should have been subject to 
audit procedures.  The evidence gathered from the work papers prepared by the audit team and 
reviewed by Valleau and Epstein, however, suggests that the projected total costs (the denominator 
in the POC formula) for the individual projects, and their updates, were not subject to audit 
procedures.  Valleau and Epstein simply accepted Wowjoint’s estimates at face value.  Valleau and 
Epstein also failed to adequately test the completeness and existence of costs allegedly incurred by 
Wowjoint for each project (the numerator in the POC formula), and to adequately test the proper 
allocation of costs amongst the various projects and financial periods.  

       78.    Valleau’s and Epstein’s failure to perform adequate audit procedures to test contract 
costs resulted in Sherb LLP taking the numbers at face value from Wowjoint.  Wowjoint, 
meanwhile, did not properly compute and update its projected total costs and failed to properly 
accrue and allocate costs incurred, including the cost of goods sold (“COGS”), to the correct 
periods for the fiscal years ended August 31, 2008 and August 31, 2009.  Valleau’s and Epstein’s 
failure enabled Wowjoint to incorrectly report that its net income increased rapidly from $3.9 
million in 2008 to $9.8 million in 2009. 

       Epstein and Sherb LLP Failed to Conduct Sufficient Inquiry and Procedures 
       Following Wowjoint’s Admission of Cash Basis Accounting 

       79.    Under PCAOB Standard AU Section 561 (Subsequent Discovery of Facts Existing 
at the Date of the Auditor’s Report at .04-.08), when an auditor becomes aware of information 
which relates to financial statements previously reported on by him, but which was not known to 
him at the date of his report and which is of such a nature and from such a source that he would 
have investigated it had it come to his attention during the course of the audit, he is required, as 
soon as practicable, to undertake to determine whether the information is reliable and whether the 
facts existed at the date of his report.  If the information is found to be reliable and would have 
affected his report, he is required to take certain actions, including actions to prevent future 
reliance on his report. 

       80.    After the two fiscal years ended August 31, 2008 and August 31, 2009, Wowjoint 
filed a Form F-1, which included the comparative financial statements and consent from Sherb 
LLP to include its audit reports for those two fiscal years.  After filing the Form F-1, Wowjoint 
changed its fiscal year end to December 31 and prepared to file financial statements for that four- 
month transition period on Form 20-F, and also to include in an amendment to its Form F-1.  
Wowjoint engaged Sherb LLP to audit the transition period financial statements.  Wowjoint’s 
financial statements for the transition period ended December 31, 2009 disclosed a dramatic swing 
from profitability to a historic $6 million loss in just that four-month transition period.  The swing 
in profitability stemmed from a large topside journal entry.  The entry recorded approximately 
RMB 43 million in costs that were incurred in prior periods into COGS during the transition 
period, which Epstein has acknowledged was a material amount.  As part of his review of audit 
work papers prepared by the audit team, Epstein sent an email to Wowjoint’s controller at the time, 
raising concerns about the journal entry:   

                                                19   
---------------------Page 20---------------------

 
       This is an interesting situation. We have costs for contracts that have been fully completed 
       in prior period included in COGS for the 4 months ended December 31, 2009. Are these 
       costs for equipment that needed additional expenses after they were completed? Perhaps 
       there were problems in these equipment order, filled in the previous years, which need 
       fixing that was not to be offset by future revenue. Or is it costs on old contracts that were 
       not known at the time the contracts concluded and came about in the four months ended 
       December 31, 2009. Please advise. [Sics omitted.] 
        
Wowjoint’s controller responded in an email which was copied to Epstein and Sherb: 
        
       Prior to December 2009, the company’s accounting book is in cash basis.  They never 
       accrue liabilities for those inventories received or expenses incurred, but not paid.  Despite 
       we finished equipment and we delivered to our customers, certain amount of raw materials 
       expenses are omitted to be recorded because we did not pay to suppliers.  Even though 
       those raw materials are used already, their costs did not go to cost of sales because of cash 
       basis.  As a result, underestimate of liabilities lead to understatement of cost of sales and 
       then overstatement of profit.  [Emphasis added; sics omitted.] 
        
       81.    Wowjoint’s controller plainly informed Epstein and Sherb that the company had 
been using the cash basis method of accounting for its revenue, which fails to comply with U.S. 
GAAP.  Moreover, Wowjoint’s controller disclosed that the use of the cash basis method, and 
incorrect recordation of COGS, caused misstatements of prior financial statements.  Nevertheless, 
Epstein and Sherb LLP simply wrote in their work papers that “the production cost is reasonable” 
without any testing or further inquiry. 

       82.    Wowjoint’s controller’s email should have triggered immediate alarm bells for 
Epstein, Sherb, and Sherb LLP.  Wowjoint’s controller’s statement to Epstein and Sherb was a 
clear admission that the company’s prior period financial statements were not in accordance with 
U.S. GAAP and that the December 31, 2009 numbers would also be incorrect.  Therefore, Epstein, 
Sherb, and Sherb LLP were on notice that not only the financial statements for the transition period 
were inaccurate, but that the financial statements for the two prior fiscal years, for which Sherb 
LLP had already issued unqualified audit reports, were also inaccurate.  Despite this information 
having been provided to Epstein and Sherb, and subsequently brought to the attention of Valleau, 
Sherb LLP performed no further audit procedures to analyze and verify these allegedly omitted 
prior period costs or to determine the proper reallocation of these costs to the correct periods, made 
no assessment of the materiality of these costs to the prior period financial statements, and did not 
appear to have assessed the need to withdraw its audit reports for the prior periods.  Instead, Sherb 
LLP issued another unqualified audit report for the December 31, 2009 transition period.  Those 
financial statements were then used in Wowjoint’s Form 20-F for the transition period and in an 
amended Form F-1, with Sherb LLP’s consent. 

        

                                                20   
---------------------Page 21---------------------

 
       Epstein and the Sherb LLP Audit Team Failed to Perform Adequate Auditing 
       Procedures to Determine Collectability of Wowjoint’s Large and Long-Outstanding 
       Accounts Receivable Balance 
                                                     
       83.      Under PCAOB Standard AU Section 326 (Evidential Matter at .01), an auditor is 
required to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter through inspection, observation, inquiries, 
and confirmations to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the financial statements 
under audit.   

       84.    Accounts receivable comprised the majority of Wowjoint’s current assets listed on 
its balance sheets as of August 31, 2008, August 31, 2009, and December 31, 2009.  A substantial 
portion of those accounts receivable were greater than one year delinquent, raising concerns about 
collectability of those purported assets.  Epstein inquired about the large, outstanding receivables 
for contracts finished several years earlier and asked whether Wowjoint’s allowance for 
uncollectible debt was adequate.  Wowjoint informed Epstein that historical records of payment 
from its customers, though delayed, were sufficient to support collectability.  Wowjoint also 
explained that because most of its clients were Chinese government owned entities, payment was 
likely, despite their slow remuneration.  From these representations, Epstein accepted Wowjoint’s 
conclusory rationale and representations concerning the collectability of all the receivables.  This is 
despite Epstein and Sherb LLP’s knowledge that Wowjoint’s largest receivable was not, in fact, 
from a Chinese government owned entity. 

       85.    A private entity that was a co-party with Wowjoint on several contracts with 
unusual payment structures held the largest outstanding accounts receivable for the first three fiscal 
periods audited by Sherb LLP, and most of those balances stretched back several years.  The 
unusual relationship between Wowjoint’s contract co-party and Wowjoint was apparent based 
upon a cursory review of contracts for each of the contracts involving Wowjoint’s contract co-
party.  Wowjoint’s contract co-party was a co-party on most of Wowjoint’s early contracts, not an 
end-user customer.  Instead, Wowjoint would produce the equipment and deliver it to the end-user 
customers, and those customers would pay Wowjoint’s contract co-party, rather than Wowjoint.  
According to agreements between Wowjoint and Wowjoint’s contract co-party, the payment for 
the equipment would be promptly forwarded by Wowjoint’s contract co-party to Wowjoint, with 
Wowjoint’s contract co-party collecting a service fee from that payment. Because the arrangement 
was unlike that of an ordinary customer and manufacturer relationship, and that Wowjoint allowed 
the co-party to fail to make timely payments as required by their arrangements, it warranted further 
procedures to determine whether the accounts receivable recordation and classification by 
Wowjoint was appropriate. 

       86.    After some prodding by Epstein for evidence that Wowjoint’s contract co-party 
would pay its long outstanding bills, Wowjoint provided Epstein with Wowjoint’s contract co-
party’s balance sheet showing its asset levels.  Wowjoint asserted this as sufficient proof of 
Wowjoint’s contract co-party’s ability to pay.  Wowjoint also provided a bank statement for 
Wowjoint’s contract co-party, showing its cash balance at that particular time, again asserted as 
evidence that Wowjoint’s contract co-party was capable of paying Wowjoint.  At most, these  

                                               21   
---------------------Page 22---------------------

 
documents proved only Wowjoint’s contract co-party’s financial position, not its inclination to pay.  
Furthermore, the validity of the cash balance shown on the bank statement was questionable 
because it had been recently substantially increased by a large cash deposit just days before the 
date of the statement.  Prior to that date, the cash balance had been significantly lower.   

       87.    PCAOB Standard AU Section 230 (Due Professional Care in the Performance of 
Work at .01-.02, .07-.08) requires auditors to exercise due professional care and professional 
skepticism throughout the audit. Epstein and Sherb LLP failed to evaluate the unusual 
arrangements between Wowjoint and its contract co-party that should have heightened their 
sensitivity regarding Wowjoint’s contract co-party’s inclination to pay its debts.  Additional audit 
procedures should have, accordingly, been planned to test whether the transactions between 
Wowjoint’s contract co-party and Wowjoint were at arm’s length and whether there were unusual 
payment terms that would affect the collectability and valuation of this receivable.   

       88.    An audit procedure commonly used to assess collectability of accounts receivable is 
to monitor subsequent collection following the fiscal period being audited.  The audit team claimed 
to have reviewed subsequent collections as a basis for measuring the adequacy of collectability and 
allowance for bad debt for accounts receivable.  Sherb LLP’s audit work papers, however, did not 
reflect any such review of the subsequent collections.  In the work papers for accounts receivable, 
Sherb LLP had created two columns to document their subsequent collection testing.  These two 
columns were left blank.  Nevertheless, the audit staff claimed it was done and wrote, 
“[s]ubsequent collection test. Auditor’s field work till January 2010, and auditor check all the 
subsequent collection to supporting document.”[sic omitted]  Both Epstein and Valleau affixed 
their initials to that work paper, indicating their review.  

       Valleau, Epstein and Sherb LLP Failed to Retain Adequate Audit Documentation 

       89.    Under PCAOB Standard No. 3 (Audit Documentation at .6), “[a]udit documentation 
must contain sufficient information to enable an experienced auditor, having no previous 
connection with the engagement:  (a) to understand the nature, timing, extent, and results of the 
procedures performed, evidence obtained, and conclusions reached, and (b) to determine who 
performed the work and the date such work was completed as well as the person who reviewed the 
work and the date of such review.” 

       90.    The audit documentation retained by Valleau, Epstein and Sherb LLP is deficient.  
To begin with, it cannot be determined from the work papers who comprised the engagement 
teams for the August 31, 2008, August 31, 2009, and December 31, 2009 Wowjoint audits.  The 
finalized work papers include only illegible initialing by various staff members and partners.  
Many work papers do not reflect the name of the preparer nor the date they were prepared. 

       91.    The revenue section for the December 31, 2009 transition period audit provides an 
example of Valleau, Epstein and Sherb LLP’s deficient audit documentation. The revenue work 
papers provide only conclusory findings with no documented support for those findings.  Epstein 
was unable to identify what procedures were performed to verify the profit and loss figures 

                                               22   
---------------------Page 23---------------------

 
provided by Wowjoint even when he was given the opportunity to review the work papers that he 
approved. 

       92.    The audit documentation also must include information the auditor has identified 
relating to significant findings or issues that is inconsistent with or contradicts the auditor's final 
conclusions. (AS No.3 at .8.)  The auditor must also document significant findings or issues, 
actions taken to address them (including additional evidence obtained), and the basis for 
conclusions reached in connection with each engagement.  (AS No. 3 at .12)  Sherb LLP’s work 
papers failed to document the audit issues raised by the discovery of the omitted prior period costs 
during the transition period audit and how Sherb LLP resolved that issue, as required by PCAOB 
Auditing Standard No. 3. 

       Valleau’s and Epstein’s Reviews of the Work Papers were Inadequate 

       93.    PCAOB Standards AU Section 150 (Generally Accepted Auditing Standards) and 
AU Section 311 (Planning and Supervision) require an auditor to properly supervise assistants.   
PCAOB Standard AU Section 230 (Due Professional Care in the Performance of Work at .01-.02, 
and .07-.08) also requires auditors to exercise due professional care and professional skepticism 
throughout the audit.  The reviews by Valleau and Epstein, for Wowjoint’s fiscal periods ended 
August 31, 2008, August 31, 2009, and December 31, 2009, were inadequate.  Valleau and Epstein 
aggregately initialed most pages of the work papers, indicating that they had reviewed them to 
ensure their accuracy and sufficiency.  Many of the pages are, however, written in full or in part in 
Chinese.  Neither Valleau nor Epstein speak or read Chinese. Epstein could not identify a single 
line in Chinese that he understood and was unable to distinguish between Wowjoint’s different 
customers in the revenue section.  Epstein also signed off on work papers that reflected audit 
procedures that were not completed, as well as many work papers that contained obvious errors, 
demonstrating his lack of due professional care in his review of work papers. 

       The 2010 Wowjoint Audit was Deficient 

       94.    PCAOB Standards AU Section 150 (Generally Accepted Auditing Standards) and 
AU Section 311 (Planning and Supervision) require an auditor to properly supervise assistants.    
PCAOB Standard AU Section 230 (Due Professional Care in the Performance of Work at .01-.02, 
.07-.08) also requires auditors to exercise due professional care and professional skepticism 
throughout the audit.  Despite their knowledge of the earlier deficient audits and Wowjoint’s 
failure to record costs incurred in the proper periods, Valleau and Epstein failed to implement 
additional audit procedures or exercise due professional care in the 2010 audit (the “2010 
Wowjoint Audit”) to ensure that these mistakes did not occur again.  Despite their knowledge of 
Wowjoint’s failure to accurately estimate and update the total costs for its projects, Valleau and 
Epstein did not object to the continued incorrect application of the POC method to compute its 
revenue.  The 2010 Wowjoint Audit performed by Sherb LLP was recklessly managed, supervised, 
and performed. 

       95.    Mycio was initially assigned to be the engagement partner for this audit.  He visited 
Wowjoint in China for one week to get familiar with the client, and allegedly performed some 

                                               23   
---------------------Page 24---------------------

 
audit planning and answered some technical questions.  However, Mycio inexplicably and 
recklessly failed to continue his supervision of the 2010 Wowjoint Audit after he returned to the 
U.S., without first transferring his responsibilities to another audit partner.  He did not even follow 
up to ascertain whether the audit was completed and whether any other audit partner was ever 
assigned to the audit.  Mycio failed to exercise due professional care and properly supervise 
assistants as required by PCAOB Standards AU Section 230 and AU Section 311.  The audit work 
papers do not reflect any work performed by Mycio. 

       96.    PCAOB Interim Quality Control Standards Section 20, System of Quality Control 
for a CPA Firm’s Accounting and Auditing Practice at .02 requires that “[Audit firms should] 
have in place internal quality-control procedures to ensure that services are competently delivered 
and adequately supervised.”  PCAOB Interim Quality Control Standards Section 40, The 
Personnel Management Element of a Firm’s System of Quality Control-Competencies Required 
by a Practitioner-in-Charge of an Attest Engagement at .02 requires that audit firms establish 
policies and procedures “to provide the firm with reasonable assurance that…work is assigned to 
personnel having the degree of technical training and proficiency required in the circumstances.”  
Sherb LLP failed to ensure that the assigned personnel properly performed their duties.  It is 
unclear when Valleau took over this audit.  Valleau signed the audit completion form and dated his 
signature in March 2011.  Sherb also signed off as engagement quality reviewer and dated his 
initials in March 2011.  However, the audit work papers reflect that the audit was still in progress 
in May 2011.  While Valleau’s initials appear on some work papers, they were all dated May 2011.  
Alarmingly, many key audit work papers did not reflect the identity of the preparer as required 
under PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 3 at .06.  They only reflected Epstein’s initials. 

       97.    Valleau stated that he had no recollection of being assigned to be the engagement 
partner for the 2010 Wowjoint Audit, and stated that he was only asked by Epstein to help out on a 
few work papers in May 2011.  However, Valleau was not able to explain an audit completion 
form bearing his signature dated March 2011.  At a minimum, this indicated the audit was 
recklessly supervised and managed.  Nevertheless, an unqualified audit report was issued by Sherb 
LLP, signed by Epstein, who for all practical purposes, was functioning as if he was the audit 
partner.  The approval to file was communicated to Wowjoint’s outside counsel by Epstein. 

       98.    The audit work papers, similar to prior periods, contained many errors and forms 
that were incomplete.  They also reflected that Wowjoint continued to record during this audit year 
costs for projects that were allegedly completed in prior periods. One work paper which 
purportedly demonstrated that Sherb LLP had performed audit procedures to test costs of service 
revenue was evidently just copied from a prior audit, as it reflected costs identical to a prior period 
that had no relationship to service revenue earned in 2010.  It was nevertheless reviewed and 
approved by Epstein. 

       The 2011 Wowjoint Audit was Deficient 

       99.    PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 9 Audit Planning at .4-.5 requires an auditor to 
properly plan an audit and to develop an audit plan which includes planned risk assessment 
procedures and planned responses to the risks of material misstatement.  PCAOB Auditing 

                                               24   
---------------------Page 25---------------------

 
Standard AU Section 230 (Due Professional Care in the Performance of Work at .01-.02, .07-.08) 
also requires auditors to exercise due professional care and professional skepticism throughout the 
audit.  Mycio returned as the engagement partner for the 2011 audit.  As with the earlier audits, this 
audit failed to test the key components for Wowjoint’s revenue computation. Sherb LLP again 
accepted Wowjoint’s numbers and computation at face value.  Sherb LLP failed to notice obvious 
errors in Wowjoint’s revenue computation worksheet, such as one project incorrectly computed as 
50% complete when it should have been only 40% complete.  Sherb LLP also raised no objection 
where Wowjoint apparently accelerated its revenue recognition on a number of projects simply by 
accruing for costs that had not yet been incurred.  This allowed Wowjoint to recognize 100% of the 
revenue on those projects even though the underlying machines had not been completed.  This is 
not in accordance with U.S. GAAP.  Sherb LLP also failed to properly test the actual costs 
allegedly incurred.  

       100.   Under PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 15 (Audit Evidence at .4), an auditor is 
required to plan and perform audit procedures to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to 
provide a reasonable basis for his or her opinion.  To be appropriate, audit evidence must be both 
relevant and reliable.  (AS No. 15.6)  Mycio violated this standard by accepting Wowjoint’s 
numbers for the total estimated costs and total costs incurred for each project at face value, 
without performing procedures to verify that the cost estimates calculated by Wowjoint were 
reliable.   

       101.   Under PCAOB Standard AU Section 230 (Due Professional Care in the 
Performance of Work at .01-.02, .07 and .08), auditors are required to exercise due professional 
care throughout the audit.  Due professional care requires that the auditor exercise professional 
skepticism.  Under this standard, professional skepticism is an attitude that includes a 
questioning mind and a critical assessment of audit evidence.  Mycio failed to design adequate 
audit procedures to verify the costs estimated and recorded for each project, and failed to notice 
that Wowjoint had accelerated revenue recognition on certain projects by accruing for costs that 
had not been incurred. 

       102.   Under PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 3 (Audit Documentation at .6), audit 
documentation must contain sufficient information to enable an experienced auditor, having no 
previous connection with the engagement to (a) understand the nature, timing, extent, and results 
of the procedures performed, evidence obtained, and conclusions reached; and (b) determine who 
performed the work and the date such work was completed as well as the person who reviewed 
the work and the date of such review.  Mycio failed to prepare and retain adequate audit 
documentation, as many key audit work papers did not identify the names of the preparers and the 
dates the relevant work was completed.   The audit documentation also did not accurately reflect 
the date the engagement quality review was purportedly performed, and any work papers reviewed 
by the engagement quality reviewer.    

                                               25   
---------------------Page 26---------------------

 
       Sherb Failed to Perform Adequate Concurring Partner and Engagement Quality 
       Reviews 

       103.   Sherb was the concurring partner for the first three audits under the superseded 
standards (SECPS § 1000.08(f) and Appendix E of SECPS § 1000.39) and was the engagement 
quality reviewer for the last two audits pursuant to the current standard (Auditing Standard  No. 
7).  Given the audit team’s clearly inadequate planning, failure to properly identify and audit 
high-risk transactions and account balances, and the many obvious errors in the audit work 
papers, Sherb’s concurring and engagement quality reviews were obviously deficient.  

       104.   As concurring partner and engagement quality reviewer for the five audits, Sherb 
failed to properly document what significant audit issues he had discussed with the audit team, 
what audit work papers he had reviewed, and his evaluation of the audit team’s judgment and 
resolution on significant audit issues as required under Paras. b and c of Appendix E of SECPS § 
1000.39 and AS No. 7.19.  The only documentation of Sherb’s concurring partner review and 
engagement quality review were a few generic checklists where he simply checked off each item 
and placed his initials at the end.  He did not provide any reference to audit work papers he 
reviewed as the checklists requested.  He signed his engagement quality review approval two 
months before the completion of the 2010 audit.   

       105.   There is no evidence that Sherb actually reviewed any audit planning work papers 
for the initial audits.  Had he done so, he would have realized that the initial client acceptance 
form clearly indicated the audit team’s assessment that Wowjoint’s financial reporting system 
appeared to be “insufficient to provide evidence to support that transactions have occurred and 
that all the transactions that should be recorded are, in fact, recorded.”  This is an alarming 
deficiency that an auditor needs to compensate and address through properly designed 
substantive audit procedures.  Instead, the audit planning documents did not reflect any audit 
procedures designed to address this risk.  Sherb LLP did not even obtain and properly document 
its understanding of Wowjoint’s internal control system.  During the transition period audit, 
Sherb was copied on the email exchanges between Epstein and Wowjoint’s controller regarding 
the posting of material costs omitted from prior periods into the transition period.  Sherb was 
instrumental in convincing Valleau to allow Wowjoint to do so.  Sherb should have ensured that 
the audit work papers reflected how the audit team evaluated this important audit issue, how it 
resolved the issue, and the basis of the audit team’s determination.  Sherb failed to do so. 
        
       Sherb’s Overall Responsibility for Quality Control 
 
       106.   Sherb is the sole equity partner and managing partner of Sherb LLP and as such 
has overall and ultimate responsibilities for the firm-wide quality control policies and practices 
required by PCAOB Interim Quality Control Standards Section 20 and Section 40.  The 
deficiencies noted above clearly demonstrated that there is a complete failure in the firm’s 
quality control policies and system in actual practice. These failures include Sherb’s failures to 
assign competent staff to each audit, to properly perform each audit, to properly take corrective 
actions when errors were brought to his attention, to modify Sherb LLP audit approaches when 
they learned of their own audit deficiencies, to ensure each engagement was clearly assigned to a 

                                               26   
---------------------Page 27---------------------

 
particular partner, and the quality control deficiency which allowed the issuance of an audit 
report by Epstein with partner approvals granted two months prior to the completion of the 2010 
audit. 
        
       Valleau and Mycio Failed to Issue Accurate Audit Reports 

       107.   PCAOB Standard AU Section 508 (Reports on Audited Financial Statements at 
.04) requires that the auditor’s report contain an opinion on the financial statements taken as a 
whole and a clear indication of the character of the auditor’s work.  The auditor can determine that 
he is able to issue an audit report containing an unqualified opinion only if he has conducted his 
audit in accordance with PCAOB Standards (at .07).  Here, the audit reports for which Valleau and 
Mycio were responsible falsely stated that they conducted their audits in accordance with PCAOB 
Standards. 

D.     VIOLATIONS 

       108.   Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iv) of the Commission’s Rules 
of Practice define improper professional conduct with respect to persons licensed to practice as 
accountants.  Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice provide that improper professional conduct includes “[r]epeated instances of 
unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards, that 
indicate a lack of competence to practice before the Commission.” 

       109.   As a result of the conduct described above, Sherb LLP engaged in improper 
professional conduct within the meaning of Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 
102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  Sherb LLP’s unreasonable conduct 
included the failures of Sherb, Valleau, Mycio, and Epstein with respect to the 2007 CSKI Audit, 
2010 CEU Audit, and the Wowjoint audits.  These repeated instances of unreasonable conduct 
resulted in violations of PCAOB Standards AU Section 150, AU Section 230, AU Section 311, 
AU Section 315, AU Section 316, AU Section 326, AU Section 330, AU Section 342, AU Section 
508, AU Section 561, Auditing Standard No. 3, Auditing Standard No. 7, Auditing Standard No. 9, 
Auditing Standard No. 15, AICPA SECPS § 1000.08(f) and Appendix E of SECPS § 1000.39, 
PCAOB Interim Quality Control Standard Section 20,  and PCAOB Interim Quality Control 
Standard Section 40.   

       110.   As a result of the conduct described above, Sherb engaged in improper 
professional conduct within the meaning of Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 
102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  Sherb repeatedly engaged in 
unreasonable conduct with respect to the 2007 CSKI Audit and the Wowjoint audits, which 
resulted in violation of Interim Quality Control Standards, AICPA SECPS § 1000.08(f) and 
Appendix E of SECPS § 1000.39 and Auditing Standard No. 7, PCAOB Interim Quality Control 
Standard Section 20,  and PCAOB Interim Quality Control Standard Section 40.     

       111.   As a result of the conduct described above, Valleau engaged in improper 
professional conduct within the meaning of Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 

                                              27   
---------------------Page 28---------------------

 
102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  Valleau repeatedly engaged in 
unreasonable conduct with respect to the 2007 CSKI Audit, 2010 CEU Audit and the Wowjoint 
audits, which resulted in violations of PCAOB Standards, AU Section 150, AU Section 230, AU 
Section 311, AU Section 315, AU Section 316, AU Section 326,  AU Section 342, AU Section 
508, AU Section 561, Auditing Standard No. 3, and Auditing Standard No. 7.   

       112.   As a result of the conduct described above, Mycio engaged in improper 
professional conduct within the meaning of Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 
102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  Mycio repeatedly engaged in 
unreasonable conduct with respect to the 2010 CEU Audit and the 2011 Wowjoint audit that 
resulted in violations of PCAOB Standards AU Section 230, AU Section 311, AU Section 316, 
AU Section 326, AU Section 330, AU Section 342, AU Section 508, Auditing Standard No. 3, and 
Auditing Standard No. 9 and Auditing Standard No. 15.   

       113.   As a result of the conduct described above, Epstein engaged in improper 
professional conduct within the meaning of Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 
102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  Epstein repeatedly engaged in 
unreasonable conduct with respect to the 2007 CSKI Audit, 2010 CEU audit, and the 2008 to 2010 
Wowjoint audits that resulted in violations of PCAOB Standards AU Section 230, and AU Section 
311, AU Section 316, AU Section 326, AU Section 330, AU Section 561, and Auditing Standard 
No. 3.   

       114.   Section 10A(b)(1) of the Exchange Act provides that if “the registered public 
accounting firm detects or otherwise becomes aware of information indicating that an illegal act 
(whether or not perceived to have a material effect on the financial statements of the issuer) has or 
may have occurred, the firm shall . . . determine whether it is likely that an illegal act has occurred; 
and . . . if so, determine and consider the possible effect of the illegal act on the financial 
statements of the issuer . . . .and . . . as soon as practicable, inform the appropriate level of the 
management of the issuer and assure that the audit committee of the issuer, or the board of 
directors of the issuer in the absence of such a committee, is adequately informed with respect to 
illegal acts that have been detected . . . .”   

       115.   As a result of the conduct described above, Mycio and Sherb LLP willfully 
violated Section 10A(b)(1) of the Exchange Act.  During the performance of the audit, Mycio 
became aware of a report by a Sherb LLP staff auditor that a CEU senior management official had 
attempted to bribe him in an effort to influence the performance of the audit, in potential violation 
of Rule 13b2-2(b)(1) under the Exchange Act.  Mycio and Sherb LLP failed to undertake an 
appropriate investigation to determine whether it was likely that an illegal act had occurred, failed 
to consider the possible effect of the illegal act on the company’s financial statements, and failed to 
inform the company’s management or board of directors as required under Section 10A(b)(1) of 
the Exchange Act.    

                                               28   
---------------------Page 29---------------------

  
 E.     FINDINGS 

        116.   Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Sherb LLP, Sherb, Valleau, 
 Mycio and Epstein engaged in improper professional conduct pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the 
 Commission’s Rules of Practice. 

        117.   Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Sherb LLP and Mycio violated 
 Section 10A(b)(1) of the Exchange Act. 

                                               IV. 

        In view of the forgoing, the Commission deems it necessary and appropriate to impose the 
 sanctions agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 

        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

        Sherb LLP 

        A.     Sherb LLP shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Section 10A(b)(1) of the Exchange Act. 
         
        B.     Sherb LLP is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission 
 as an accountant. 
         
        C.     Sherb LLP shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money penalty 
 in the amount of $75,000 to the United States Treasury.  If timely payment is not made, additional 
 interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717.  Payment must be made in one of the following 
 ways:   

                       (1) Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                       through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  

                       (2) Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                       States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                       Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
         
                              Enterprise Services Center 
                              Accounts Receivable Branch                               
                              HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                              6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                              Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
                        
        Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
 Sherb LLP as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy 
 of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Yuri B. Zelinsky, Assistant Director, 

                                               29   
---------------------Page 30---------------------

  
 Division of Enforcement,, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, N.E. Washington, 
 DC 20549-5041.  
         
        Sherb 

        A.     Sherb is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
 accountant. 

        B.      After five years from the date of this order, Sherb may request that the Commission 
 consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) 
 to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

                1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Sherb’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
       
                2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
 Commission that: 
       
                       (a)     Sherb, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
 registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with 
 the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
  
                       (b)     Sherb, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
 associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of 
 or potential defects in Sherb’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that the 
 respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
  

                       (c)     Sherb has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has 
 complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
 reinstatement by the Commission); and 
  
                       (d)     Sherb acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Sherb appears or 
 practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all requirements 
 of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to 
 registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
  
        C.      The Commission will consider an application by Sherb to resume appearing or 
 practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
 resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
 if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 

                                                30   
---------------------Page 31---------------------

  
 consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
 of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Sherb’s character, 
 integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
         
        Valleau 
         
        A.     Valleau is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
 an accountant. 

        B.      After five years from the date of this order, Valleau may request that the 
 Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief 
 Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

                1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Valleau’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
       
                2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
 Commission that: 
       
                       (a)     Valleau, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, 
 is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance 
 with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
  
                       (b)     Valleau, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
 associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of 
 or potential defects in Valleau’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that the 
 respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
  

                       (c)     Valleau has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has 
 complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
 reinstatement by the Commission); and 
  
                       (d)     Valleau acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Valleau 
 appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
 requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
 relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
  
        C.      The Commission will consider an application by Valleau to resume appearing or 
 practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
 resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 

                                                31   
---------------------Page 32---------------------

  
 if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
 consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
 of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Valleau’s character, 
 integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
         
        Mycio 
         
        A.      Mycio shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
 future violations of Section 10A(b)(1) of the Exchange Act.     
         
        B.      Mycio is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
 an accountant.  
         
        C.      After five years from the date of this order, Mycio may request that the Commission 
 consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) 
 to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

                1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Mycio’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
       
                2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
 Commission that: 
       
                       (a)     Mycio, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, 
 is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance 
 with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
  
                       (b)     Mycio, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
 associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of 
 or potential defects in Mycio’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that the 
 respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
  

                       (c)     Mycio has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has 
 complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
 reinstatement by the Commission); and 
  
                       (d)     Mycio acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Mycio appears 
 or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
 requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
 relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   

                                                32   
---------------------Page 33---------------------

  
  
        D.      The Commission will consider an application by Mycio to resume appearing or 
 practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
 resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
 if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
 consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
 of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Mycio’s character, 
 integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
         
        Epstein 
         
        A.      Epstein is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
 an accountant. 

        B.      After three years from the date of this order, Epstein may request that the 
 Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief 
 Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

                1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Epstein’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
       
                2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
 Commission that: 
       
                       (a)     Epstein, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, 
 is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance 
 with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
  
                       (b)     Epstein, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
 associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of 
 or potential defects in Epstein’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that the 
 respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
  

                       (c)     Epstein has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has 
 complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
 reinstatement by the Commission); and 
  
                       (d)     Epstein acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Epstein 
 appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 

                                                33   
---------------------Page 34---------------------

 
requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
 
       C.      The Commission will consider an application by Epstein to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Epstein’s character, 
integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
        

       By the Commission. 

        

 
                                                            Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                            Secretary 

                                               34   
