---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                      Before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 74262 / February 11, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3637 / February 11, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15965 
 
                                             
In the Matter of                            ORDER  MAKING FINDINGS  
                                            AND IMPOSING  REMEDIAL 
   CHILD, VAN WAGONER &                     SANCTIONS  PURSUANT TO 
   BRADSHAW, PLLC, RUSSELL                  SECTIONS 4C AND 21C OF THE 
   E. ANDERSON, CPA, and                    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 
   MARTY VAN WAGONER, CPA,                  1934 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                             COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
Respondents.                                           
 
                                                
                                          I.  
 
      On July 8, 2014, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) instituted 
public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings against Child, Van Wagoner & Bradshaw, 
PLLC (“CVB”), Russell E. Anderson, CPA (“Anderson”), and Marty Van Wagoner, CPA (“Van 
Wagoner”) (collectively “Respondents”), pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice and also against CVB and Anderson pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.  Respondents have submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the 
Commission has determined to accept.  
 
                                          II. 
                                            
      Solely for the purpose of settling these proceedings, and any other proceedings brought by 
or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or 
denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject 
matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order 
Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.  
 
                                            
                                            
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                  
                                               III. 
 
                                                                                1
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offer, the Commission finds  that:  
 
SUMMARY 
 
       1.      Between March 2010 and June 2011, CVB, an accounting firm based in Salt Lake 
City, Utah, and Anderson and Van Wagoner, two of its partners, served as the independent 
auditors of Yuhe International, Inc. (“Yuhe”), a China-based company whose stock was 
previously registered with the Commission and traded on Nasdaq.  These proceedings arise from 
Respondents’ failures to comply with Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) 
Auditing Standards (“PCAOB Standards”) in their 2009 and 2010 audits of Yuhe.  Among other 
failures, CVB and Anderson failed to:  (a) properly plan the audits and supervise assistants; (b) 
properly assess audit risk and materiality; (c) properly consider fraud and illegal acts; and (d) act 
with due professional care.  In his role as engagement quality review partner, Van Wagoner failed 
to act with due professional care because he was aware, or should have been aware, of audit 
deficiencies but did not address them.  Additionally, by virtue of his failure to comply with 
professional standards during Yuhe’s 2010 audit, Van Wagoner also violated the engagement 
quality review standard set forth in AS 7. 
 
       2.      The Respondents’ failures in the 2009 audit arose principally because CVB and 
Anderson effectively performed no audit work of their own and instead relied on the audit work 
papers of Yuhe’s prior auditor which had begun the 2009 audit, but then abruptly resigned without 
completing it.  Even though neither CVB nor Anderson planned, performed, or supervised the prior 
firm’s audit work, they took that firm’s work papers, performed at best a cursory review of them, 
and then issued an audit report containing an unqualified opinion on Yuhe’s financial statements—
all within only approximately three weeks of accepting the Yuhe engagement.   
 
       3.      CVB and Anderson also performed a deficient audit of Yuhe’s 2010 financial 
statements.  During planning for the 2010 audit, CVB and Anderson assessed Yuhe as lacking 
effective internal controls such that no controls reliance could be utilized in performing the audit.  
Specifically, they documented within CVB’s planning work papers that “the auditor is concerned 
about the risk of material misstatement” due to Yuhe’s “inability to perform proper procedures 
necessary to produce a reliable financial statement.”  They also noted that Yuhe personnel 
appeared to lack the experience and ability to create financial statements using accounting 
principles generally accepted in the United States (“US GAAP”).  Yet, despite this assessment, 
CVB and Anderson failed to implement auditing procedures that addressed the risks identified.  
They performed an audit based upon the basic audit procedures within their prescribed checklists 
without modification, failed to extend procedures to address the known risk of material 
misstatement, and relied heavily on management representations.  They also failed to provide 
meaningful direction and supervision to the foreign audit staff CVB hired to perform fieldwork in 
China (hereafter, “Foreign Audit Staff”).  Despite these deficiencies, and without the application of 

                                                 
1
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other 
person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
  

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

due professional care in his role as engagement quality reviewer, Van Wagoner provided his 
concurrence on the issuance of the audit report.   
 
RESPONDENTS 
 
       4.      Child, Van Wagoner & Bradshaw, PLLC, located during the pertinent period in 
Salt Lake City, Utah, is a Utah professional limited liability company and public accounting firm 
formerly registered with the PCAOB.  CVB acted as Yuhe’s independent auditor initially from 
March 12, 2008 to December 7, 2009, and then again from March 9, 2010 to June 17, 2011.  CVB 
                                  2
performed public company audits     of, and issued audit reports containing unqualified opinions on, 
the financial statements of Yuhe for Yuhe’s fiscal years ending December 31, 2008, December 31, 
2009, and December 31, 2010.  CVB resigned as Yuhe’s independent auditor on June 17, 2011, 
following public disclosure by Yuhe that a purported business acquisition by Yuhe had, in fact, 
never occurred.  During the time of its Yuhe audits, CVB had four audit partners and two non-audit 
partners.  CVB ceased to do public company audits as of August 1, 2012.  CVB is no longer 
registered with the PCAOB, but remains “active” and in “good standing” in the records of the State 
of Utah Division of Corporations and Commercial Code.   
        
       5.      Russell E. Anderson, age 53, is a Certified Public Accountant (“CPA”) licensed to 
practice in Utah.  Anderson served as CVB’s engagement partner for the 2008, 2009, and 2010 
Yuhe audits and was responsible for making all significant decisions regarding the engagements.  
During 2009 and 2010, Anderson was also CVB’s “quality control partner.”  He is a resident of 
West Valley City, Utah. 
        
       6.      Marty Van Wagoner, age 52, is a CPA licensed to practice in Utah.  Van Wagoner 
served as CVB’s engagement quality review partner for the 2008, 2009 and 2010 audits of Yuhe.  
He is a resident of Eagle Mountain, Utah. 
                
RELEVANT ENTITY 
        
       7.      Yuhe International, Inc. is a Nevada corporation whose principal offices are located 
                                                               3
in Weifang, Shandong Province, People’s Republic of China.         Yuhe sells day-old chicken 
broilers, i.e., chickens that are bred and raised for meat production, and claims to be the largest 
supplier of day-old broilers in China.  All of Yuhe’s operations are carried out in China.  Its 
common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act, 
and was traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market.  On October 20, 2010, Yuhe completed a registered 
public offering in the United States of more than four million shares of its common stock at a price 
of $7 per share, raising approximately $27 million.  On July 21, 2011, Nasdaq suspended trading 
of Yuhe’s common stock, and, on December 16, 2011, Nasdaq filed a Form 25 with the 

                                                 
2
 A public company audit is defined as an engagement to audit the financial statements of an “issuer” as that term is 
defined in Section 3(a)(8) of the Exchange Act. 
 
3
 On October 18, 2013, the Commission filed a civil injunctive action against Yuhe and its Chief Executive Officer 
(“CEO”), alleging violations of the antifraud provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Exchange Act, as well 
as the books and records, internal controls, and reporting provisions of the Exchange Act.  SEC v. Yuhe Int’l, Inc. 
and Gao Zhentao, Civil Action No. 1:13-CV-01598-RCL (D.D.C., filed Oct. 18, 2013). 

                                                  3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

Commission to delist the common stock, which is now quoted on OTC Link.  Yuhe’s fiscal year 
ends on December 31. 
 
FACTS 
 
                                              Background 
 
       8.      CVB audited Yuhe’s financial statements for its fiscal year ending December 31, 
2008, and issued an audit report containing an unqualified opinion.  In order to perform field work 
in China for this audit, CVB contracted with accounting personnel in a Shanghai, China 
independently owned member firm of an international public accounting network firm (hereafter, 
“Shanghai Office”).  In conducting Yuhe’s 2008 audit, CVB did not place any reliance on Yuhe’s 
internal controls due to CVB’s assessment that Yuhe’s internal controls were ineffective.  As a 
result, CVB conducted a fully substantive audit and did not reduce any substantive testing in its 
audit procedures based upon assessment or testing of internal controls. 
 
       9.      CVB continued its engagement as Yuhe’s auditor for Yuhe’s 2009 fiscal year, and 
conducted interim reviews of Yuhe’s financial statements for that fiscal year’s first, second, and 
third quarters.  However, in late 2009 during Yuhe’s fourth fiscal quarter, the Shanghai Office was 
acquired by another international public accounting firm (hereafter, the “Acquiring Firm”). 
 
       10.    Following this acquisition, on December 7, 2009, the Audit Committee of Yuhe’s 
Board of Directors appointed the Acquiring Firm as Yuhe’s independent auditor.  Under the 
engagement agreement, the Acquiring Firm was to perform the 2009 year-end audit and opine on 
the 2009 financial statements.  Thereafter, from December 2009 through February 2010, the 
individuals who were formerly the Shanghai Office personnel working on Yuhe’s audits, but now 
employees of the Acquiring Firm, planned and executed the Yuhe audit under the Acquiring 
Firm’s supervision and in accordance with the Acquiring Firm’s audit approach. 
        
       11.    During its audit procedures and fieldwork, the Acquiring Firm identified in Yuhe’s 
books and records, as of February 2010, ongoing related party transactions which Yuhe had earlier 
asserted in a public filing would be discontinued by December 31, 2009.  In the prior year, Yuhe’s 
management had concluded that the related party transactions constituted violations of Section 402 
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and that a material weakness existed over the lack of review 
and approval of related party loans, due to Yuhe’s management permitting these transactions 
without Board of Director approval.  On March 5, 2010, the Acquiring Firm resigned from the 
engagement, and Yuhe’s Form 8-K filing cited the prohibited related party loan, the material 
weakness over the review and approval of such loans, and a material weakness related to Yuhe’s 
inability to properly close its books as the reasons for the Acquiring Firm’s resignation.  At the 
time of its resignation, the Acquiring Firm’s audit field work for the 2009 audit of Yuhe was 
incomplete. 
 
       12.    Yuhe’s due date for filing its 2009 Form 10-K with the Commission was March 31, 
2010, less than a month after the Acquiring Firm’s resignation.  With such a short time period 
before its filing deadline, Yuhe approached CVB to return as its independent auditor and complete 
the 2009 audit.  Respondents accepted Yuhe’s request and, on March 9, 2010, CVB re-engaged as 

                                                4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

Yuhe’s independent auditor.  Only twenty-one days later, on March 30, 2010, Anderson, with Van 
Wagoner’s concurrence, issued CVB’s audit report containing an unqualified opinion on Yuhe’s 
financial statements for the 2009 fiscal year. 
 
                              CVB and Anderson’s 2009 Audit of Yuhe 
 
       13.     Auditing standards require an auditor to adequately plan and perform an audit and 
                                             4
properly supervise assistants.  AU § 311.01.     Audit planning involves developing an overall 
strategy for the expected conduct and scope of the audit.  The nature, extent, and timing of 
planning vary with the size and complexity of the entity, experience with the entity, and knowledge 
of the entity’s business.  In planning the audit, the auditor should consider, among other matters, 
the entity’s business, accounting policies and procedures, and planned assessed level of control 
risk.  AU § 311.03.  Supervision involves directing the efforts of assistants who are involved in 
accomplishing the objectives of the audit and determining whether those objectives are 
accomplished.  AU § 311.01, .11-.13.  Elements of supervision include, among others, instructing 
assistants, keeping informed of significant problems encountered, and reviewing the work 
performed.  AU § 311.11-.13. 
 
       14.    After reengaging as Yuhe’s auditor for the 2009 audit, CVB and Anderson did not 
perform their own audit of Yuhe.  Instead, CVB and Anderson sought and obtained the audit work 
papers of the Acquiring Firm from its incomplete fieldwork for the short period it was Yuhe’s 
auditor.  Between approximately March 9 and March 30, 2010, CVB’s acting audit manager for 
the 2009 Yuhe audit, a senior associate at CVB who was not a CPA, collected and reviewed the 
incomplete audit work papers of the Acquiring Firm.  The acting audit manager did not request that 
any additional audit procedures be performed, and did not provide review notes for additional 
clarification or documentation to be added to the substantive audit procedures.  In fact, no 
additional meaningful substantive audit procedures were performed for the Yuhe audit by CVB or 
Anderson or anyone acting at their direction.   
 
       15.     As a result of not performing their own audit of Yuhe, neither CVB nor Anderson 
participated in the planning, execution, or supervision of any audit procedures performed for 
Yuhe’s 2009 audit.  Neither CVB nor Anderson formulated a specific audit plan for Yuhe’s 2009 
audit, or conducted formal audit planning meetings.  Moreover, neither CVB nor Anderson made 
sufficient inquiry into Yuhe’s business, recent developments, accounting policies and procedures, 
or control risk.  Additionally, CVB and Anderson did not provide direction or guidance to the 
accounting staff in China who performed the audit field work. 
 
       16.     The auditor should consider audit risk and materiality both in (a) planning the audit 
and designing auditing procedures and (b) evaluating whether the financial statements taken as a 
whole are presented fairly, in all material respects, in conformity with generally accepted 
accounting principles.  The auditor should consider audit risk and materiality in the first 
circumstance to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter on which to properly evaluate the 
financial statements in the second circumstance.  AU § 312.12.   
 
                                                 
4
 References to auditing standards in this Order are to PCAOB Standards in effect at the time the audit work was 
performed. 

                                                  5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       17.     As a result of not performing their own audit of Yuhe, neither CVB nor Anderson 
participated in assessing audit risk or materiality for Yuhe’s 2009 audit.  CVB and Anderson 
simply accepted the assessment of materiality that the Acquiring Firm had documented without 
any consideration of how the amounts were established or if those amounts were appropriate.  As 
part of the work that CVB and Anderson had done for the quarterly reviews, there was no planning 
or assessments documented that correspond to the procedures that were ultimately performed.   
 
       18.    The audit approach used by the Acquiring Firm for Yuhe’s 2009 audit differed 
significantly from that of CVB and Anderson’s audit approach in the 2008 audit of Yuhe.  For the 
2009 audit, the Acquiring Firm’s audit approach contemplated an intended reliance on Yuhe’s 
internal controls which, if effective, would have allowed the Acquiring Firm to reduce its 
substantive testing.  However, for the 2008 audit, CVB and Anderson had assessed Yuhe’s internal 
control over financial reporting as weak to the point of planning to obtain no audit comfort from 
testing them.  Further, the testimony of Anderson shows that he and CVB continued to place no 
reliance on controls for the 2009 audit.  When CVB re-engaged as Yuhe’s auditor, CVB and 
Anderson failed to adjust the audit approach used by the Acquiring Firm, or explain in their work 
papers why reliance on Yuhe’s internal controls was appropriate. 
 
       19.     Auditing standards require an auditor to plan and perform an audit to obtain 
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, 
whether caused by error or fraud.  AU § 316.01.  Among other things, members of the audit team 
should discuss the potential for material misstatement due to fraud.  Discussions should include an 
exchange of ideas or “brainstorming” among the audit team members, including the auditor with 
final responsibility for the audit, about how and where they believe the entity’s financial statements 
might be susceptible to material misstatement due to fraud, how management could perpetrate and 
conceal fraudulent financial reporting, and how assets of the entity could be misappropriated.  AU 
§ 316.14.  Auditing standards require an auditor to make inquiries of management and others 
within the entity to obtain their views about the risks of fraud and how they are addressed.  AU 
§316.14-.27. 
 
       20.     By not planning or performing the 2009 audit of Yuhe, CVB and Anderson did not 
seek to obtain reasonable assurance that Yuhe’s financial statements were free of material 
misstatement, whether by error or fraud.  CVB and Anderson did not consider the risks of material 
misstatement due to fraud at Yuhe, did not meet to discuss the susceptibility of Yuhe’s financial 
statements to material misstatement due to fraud, and did not inquire of Yuhe management or its 
employees about fraud in connection with CVB and Anderson’s issuance of its 2009 audit report. 
        
       21.     AU § 317 notes that audit procedures applied for the purpose of forming an opinion 
on the financial statements may bring possible illegal acts to the auditor’s attention.  Examples of 
these procedures include reading minutes; inquiring of the client’s management and legal counsel 
concerning litigation, claims, and assessments; and performing substantive tests of details of 
transactions or balances.  Auditing standards require an auditor to make inquiries of management 
concerning the client’s compliance with laws and regulations, including, where applicable, the 
client’s policies relative to the prevention of illegal acts.  AU § 317.08.   
        

                                                6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

       22.     There is no documentary evidence suggesting any inquiries by CVB or Anderson of 
Yuhe’s management concerning Yuhe’s policies related to the prevention of illegal acts and 
compliance with laws and regulations.  Here, such inquiries would have been appropriate, given (i) 
the resignation of the prior auditor; (ii) the continued existence of prohibited loans; (iii) the number 
and type of audit adjustments included in the Acquiring Firm’s incomplete audit work papers that 
CVB obtained, which indicated a lack of knowledge within Yuhe of financial reporting practices 
common to the United States; (iv) the weak or non-existent control environment; and (v) the use of 
personal bank accounts for Yuhe payments, which would have indicated higher risk and potentially 
triggered additional procedures and inquiries. 
        
       23.     Auditing standards also require an auditor to consider the risks surrounding related 
party transactions.  AU § 334.  An auditor should obtain an understanding of management 
responsibilities, the relationship of each component to the total entity, the business purpose served 
by the various components of the entity, and the controls over management activities.  AU § 
334.05.  After identifying related party transactions, the auditor should apply the procedures he 
considers necessary to obtain satisfaction concerning the purpose, nature, and extent of these 
transactions and their effect on the financial statements.  The procedures should be directed toward 
obtaining and evaluating sufficient competent evidential matter and should extend beyond inquiry 
of management.  AU § 334.09. 
 
       24.     CVB and Anderson did not consider the risks surrounding related party transactions 
during the 2009 Yuhe audit.  Instead, CVB and Anderson relied upon work performed and 
assessments made by the Acquiring Firm whose work papers were incomplete.  CVB and 
Anderson did not inquire of management independently as part of their audit, nor did they hold any 
discussions with the Audit Committee concerning related party transactions.   
 
       25.     Under auditing standards, the observation of inventories is mandated as a generally 
accepted auditing procedure.  AU § 331.01.  CVB and Anderson did not perform an inventory 
observation during the 2009 audit of Yuhe.  An inventory observation was done by the Acquiring 
Firm.  Moreover, when the Acquiring Firm performed the observation, it only performed limited 
counts because it placed some reliance on Yuhe’s internal controls relating to inventory.   
        
       26.     Auditing standards require auditors to exercise due professional care throughout the 
audit.  AU § 230.  Due professional care requires that the auditor exercise professional skepticism, 
which means a questioning mind and a critical assessment of audit evidence.  Moreover, gathering 
and objectively evaluating audit evidence requires the auditor to consider the competency and 
sufficiency of the evidence.  Since evidence is gathered and evaluated throughout the audit, 
professional skepticism should be exercised throughout the audit process.  By failing to adhere to 
the auditing standards set forth above, CVB and Anderson failed to exercise due professional care 
during the 2009 Yuhe audit.   
 
       27.     Van Wagoner, as engagement quality review partner, also failed to exercise due 
professional care in Yuhe’s 2009 audit.  Van Wagoner had responsibility for reviewing the audit 
work for the 2009 audit.  He was aware that CVB and Anderson had not planned, conducted, or 
supervised an audit of Yuhe and had instead taken, and were relying upon, the work papers of a 
different audit firm.  Despite having this knowledge, Van Wagoner concurred in CVB’s issuance 

                                                7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

of an audit report containing an unqualified opinion on Yuhe’s financial statements for fiscal year 
2009. 
 
       28.     Under the third standard of field work, sufficient competent evidential matter is to 
be obtained through inspection, observation, inquiries, and confirmations to afford a reasonable 
basis for an opinion regarding the financial statements under audit.  AU § 326.01.  CVB and 
Anderson did not contribute or provide supervision in the inspection, observation, inquiry, or 
confirmation processes of the 2009 audit of Yuhe—all of which were done by the Acquiring Firm. 
        
       29.     Audit documentation is the written record of the basis for the auditor’s conclusions 
that provides the support for the auditor’s representations in the auditor’s report.  Audit 
documentation also is the basis for the review of the quality of the work because it provides the 
reviewer with written documentation of the evidence supporting the auditor’s significant 
conclusions.  Among other things, audit documentation includes records of the planning and 
performance of the work, the procedures performed, evidence obtained, and conclusions reached 
by the auditor.  AS 3, ¶ 2. 
 
       30.     CVB and Anderson failed to properly document the 2009 audit.  They failed to 
document how they accepted and utilized the work of another firm, how they were able to 
supervise assistants performing audit procedures before CVB was engaged on the audit, how they 
obtained evidence, and how they reached conclusions. 
        
       31.     Obtaining representations from management is required for audits performed in 
accordance with PCAOB Standards, as outlined in AU § 333.  While such representations are part 
of the evidence obtained by an independent auditor, they cannot substitute for the application of the 
auditing procedures needed to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the financial 
statements under audit.  AU § 333.02.  In the 2009 audit of Yuhe, CVB and Anderson obtained 
written representations without applying auditing procedures which would have been necessary to 
form a basis for their opinion.   
 
                            CVB and Anderson’s 2010 Audit of Yuhe 
 
       32.     Yuhe engaged CVB to conduct an audit of its 2010 financial statements.  CVB and 
Anderson documented that Yuhe presented a significant risk of material misstatement because 
Yuhe lacked the ability to perform the proper procedures necessary to produce reliable financial 
statements, and Yuhe personnel lacked the experience and ability to create financial statements in 
accordance with US GAAP, understand Yuhe’s transactions, and account for them properly.  
Accordingly, citing a weak controls environment, CVB and Anderson planned their audit assuming 
no controls reliance.   
        
       33.     For the 2010 audit, CVB increased the planning materiality threshold to over 230% 
of the prior year’s number, even though CVB and Anderson continued to believe that they could 
not rely on Yuhe’s internal controls and there was not a proportionate increase in net income.  
Additionally, CVB and Anderson did not document their rationale for increasing materiality in 
2010. 
 

                                                8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

       34.     Despite assessing a weak controls environment, CVB and Anderson’s approach to 
the audit consisted mostly of a perfunctory completion of checklists and certain substantive testing 
procedures, along with a review of those checklists by CVB and Anderson and did not include a 
proper consideration of risk and materiality.   
        
       35.     For the 2010 Yuhe audit, CVB and Anderson contracted with personnel in China to 
perform fieldwork on CVB’s behalf.  However, CVB and Anderson did not play a substantive role 
in audit supervision and, instead, sent checklists to the Foreign Audit Staff to use without specific 
instructions, detailed work plans, or appropriate modifications based on identified risks.  CVB and 
Anderson failed to provide the Foreign Audit Staff specific guidance on the procedures to be 
performed, the audit objectives to be accomplished, or the need to maintain proper audit 
documentation in accordance with AU § 311 and AS 3.   
 
       36.      CVB’s audit manager gave the work papers created by the Foreign Audit Staff 
only a cursory review with no follow up or substantive dialogue as to their content or findings.  
Neither CVB nor Anderson questioned the substantive work performed by the Foreign Audit Staff 
or provided any review comments or requests for additional procedures.  CVB and Anderson failed 
to comply with the provisions of AU § 311 as outlined in paragraph 13.    
 
       37.     Whenever the auditor has concluded that there is significant risk of material 
misstatement of the financial statements, the auditor should consider this conclusion in 
determining the nature, timing, or extent of procedures; assigning staff; or requiring appropriate 
levels of supervision.  The knowledge, skill, and ability of personnel assigned significant 
engagement responsibilities should be commensurate with the auditor’s assessment of the level 
of risk for the engagement.  Ordinarily, higher risk requires more experienced personnel or more 
extensive supervision by the auditor with final responsibility for the engagement during both the 
planning and the conduct of the engagement.  Higher risk may cause the auditor to expand the 
extent of procedures applied, apply procedures closer to or as of year end, particularly in critical 
audit areas, or modify the nature of procedures to obtain more persuasive evidence.  AU § 
312.17.   
        
       38.     CVB and Anderson documented during the fraud risk discussion concerns about the 
risk of material misstatement due to Yuhe’s inability to perform proper procedures necessary to 
produce reliable financial statements.  Despite CVB and Anderson having assessed Yuhe’s 
internal controls as ineffective and its personnel as lacking in experience to produce US GAAP 
financial statements, CVB and Anderson failed to properly consider the risk of material 
misstatement and design appropriate audit procedures to address the identified risks.   
        
       39.     CVB and Anderson failed to properly consider the possibility of fraud or modify 
and extend the audit procedures based on such considerations in 2010.  CVB and Anderson also 
identified as a risk the use of personal bank accounts to transact company business and the risk of 
personal funds being intermingled with business funds.  To address the risk identified, CVB and 
Anderson assigned two Hong Kong based individuals on the Foreign Audit Staff to perform 
procedures to address these risks.  However, neither CVB nor Anderson supervised or reviewed 
the procedures carried out by these two individuals.  AU § 312.17 states that higher risk requires 
more experienced personnel or more extensive supervision by the auditor with final 

                                                9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

responsibility for the engagement during both the planning and the conduct of the engagement. 
AU § 316.01 requires an auditor to plan and perform an audit to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether caused by error or 
fraud.  By not properly addressing the risks that were identified, or supervising the staff assigned 
to the task, CVB and Anderson failed to properly consider and address the risk associated with 
fraud on the financial statements.   
        
       40.  Even though CVB and Anderson assessed Yuhe’s internal controls as ineffective and 
its personnel as lacking in experience to produce US GAAP financial statements, CVB and 
Anderson relied on discussions with management by the Foreign Audit Staff and on evidence 
supplied by management throughout their audit as their sole basis for audit evidence in certain 
areas.  CVB and Anderson’s overreliance on management’s representations, especially in light of 
their assessment of management’s abilities, was inappropriate.  While such representations from 
management are part of the evidential matter the independent auditor obtains, they are not a 
substitute for the application of those auditing procedures necessary to afford a reasonable basis for 
an opinion regarding the financial statements under audit.  AU § 333.02.   
 
       41.    In late March 2011, CVB and Anderson completed Yuhe’s 2010 audit and issued 
an audit report containing an unqualified opinion on Yuhe’s financial statements for fiscal year 
2010. 
 
       42.     Under the auditing standard governing engagement quality review which was 
effective for Yuhe’s 2010 audit, the engagement quality reviewer should evaluate the significant 
judgments made by the engagement team and the related conclusions reached in forming the 
overall conclusion on the engagement and in preparing the engagement report.  AS 7, ¶ 9.  The 
engagement quality reviewer should evaluate the significant judgments that relate to engagement 
planning, including the consideration of the auditing firm’s recent engagement experience with the 
company and risks identified in connection with the firm’s client acceptance and retention process, 
the consideration of the company’s business, recent significant activities, and related financial 
reporting issues and risks, and the judgments made about materiality and the effect of those 
judgments on the engagement strategy.  AS 7, ¶ 10.  To evaluate such judgments and conclusions, 
the engagement quality reviewer should, to the extent necessary to satisfy the requirements, hold 
discussions with the engagement partner and other members of the engagement team and review 
documentation.  AS 7, ¶ 9.  In an audit, the firm may grant permission to the client to use the 
engagement report only after the engagement quality reviewer provides concurring approval of 
issuance.  AS 7, ¶ 13. 
 
       43.     Van Wagoner failed to fulfill the requirements of AS 7 for Yuhe’s 2010 audit.  
Specifically, the work papers do not evidence any communications between the audit team and 
Van Wagoner throughout the year or during the audit process.  The emails among team members 
show that the vast majority of Van Wagoner’s communications appear perfunctory and lacking in 
substantive information or commentary.  There is no evidence that he reviewed or evaluated the 
audit planning process, the assessment of materiality, or the consideration and assessment of fraud 
risks in a manner that would fulfill professional responsibilities.   
                                                  
                                                  

                                               10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

                               Yuhe’s Public Offering and Fraud 
        
       44.    On June 2, 2010, Yuhe filed its Form S-3 Registration Statement and Prospectus 
with the Commission, which became effective on June 23, 2010.  On October 19, 2010, Yuhe filed 
its Preliminary Prospectus Supplement, and, on October 20, 2010, it filed its Final Prospectus 
Supplement.  CVB’s audit report containing an unqualified opinion for 2009 was included in those 
filings, as each incorporated Yuhe’s 2009 Form 10-K.  From October 20, 2010 to November 2, 
2010, Yuhe conducted a public offering, selling 4.14 million newly issued shares of common stock 
at a price of $7.00 per share, and receiving net proceeds in excess of $27 million.   
 
       45.    On December 31, 2009, and January 4, 2010, Yuhe filed Forms 8-K announcing 
that on December 24, 2009, it had entered into an agreement with Waifang Dajiang Corporation 
to purchase thirteen breeder farms for an aggregate price of approximately $15.2 million.  Prior 
to the acquisition, Yuhe owned only fourteen breeder farms, which meant the acquisition would 
increase Yuhe’s capacity by 60%.  From January 2010 through June 2011, in press releases and 
filings with the Commission, Yuhe provided numerous updates concerning the status of the 
acquired farms.  However, on June 17, 2011, Yuhe hosted a conference call during which Yuhe 
disclosed for the first time that the acquisition had never been completed and that the funds had, 
instead, been placed in a private account controlled by the CEO.  On the same day shortly after 
the conference call, CVB resigned as Yuhe’s independent auditor, stating that reliance should no 
longer be placed on its previously issued audit report for 2010.  
 
VIOLATIONS 
 
     Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice 
 
       46.    As a result of the conduct described above, Respondents engaged in improper 
professional conduct within the meaning of Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 
102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and 
Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provide, in pertinent part, that the Commission may censure or deny, 
temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission to 
any person who is found by the Commission to have engaged in improper professional conduct. 
Section 4C(b) and Rule 102(e)(1)(iv) define improper professional conduct with respect to 
persons licensed to practice as accountants. 
 
       47.    Under Section 4C(b) and Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B), the term “improper professional 
conduct” means one of two types of negligent conduct: (1) a single instance of highly 
unreasonable conduct in circumstances for which heightened scrutiny is warranted; or (2) 
repeated instances of unreasonable conduct that indicate a lack of competence. 
        
       48.    Respondents’ failures to abide by PCAOB Standards during the 2009 and 2010 
Yuhe audits constitute repeated instances of unreasonable conduct.  Additionally, the actions of 
CVB and Anderson during the 2009 Yuhe audit constitute a single instance of highly unreasonable 
conduct in circumstances in which heightened scrutiny was warranted.  As a result, the 
Respondents have demonstrated a lack of competence to practice before the Commission.   
        

                                              11 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

       49.    As a result of the conduct described above, CVB willfully violated and Anderson 
willfully aided and abetted CVB’s violations of Section 10A(a)(1) and (2) of the Exchange Act 
and Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X within the meaning of Section 4C(a)(3) of the Exchange 
Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  Section 4C(a)(3) of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provide, in 
pertinent part, that the Commission may censure or deny, temporarily or permanently, the 
privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission to any person who is found by the 
Commission to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any 
provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations issued thereunder.     
        
   CVB Violated and Anderson Caused CVB’s Violations of Section 10A(a)(1) and (2) of the 
                      Exchange Act and Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X 
        
       50.    Under Section 21C of the Exchange Act, the Commission may enter a cease and 
desist order against any person who commits a violation or is or was a “cause” of another’s 
primary violation if the person knew or should have known that his act or omission would 
contribute to the primary violation.  Negligence is sufficient to establish “causing” liability under 
Section 21C of the Exchange Act when a person is alleged to have caused a primary violation 
that does not require scienter.  See KPMG LLP v. SEC, 289 F.3d 109, 112 (D.C. Cir. 2002). 
        
       51.    Sections 10A(a)(1) and (2) of the Exchange Act require that each audit of the 
financial statements of an issuer by a registered public accounting firm must include, in accordance 
with generally accepted auditing standards (“GAAS”), procedures designed to detect illegal acts 
and identify related party transactions that are material to the financial statements.  “[R]eferences 
in Commission rules and staff guidance and in the federal securities laws to GAAS or to specific 
standards under GAAS, as they relate to issuers, should be understood to mean the standards of the 
PCAOB plus any applicable rules of the Commission.”  See SEC Release No. 34-49708 (May 14, 
2004).   
        
       52.    As a result of the conduct described above, CVB violated Sections 10A(a)(1) and 
(2) of the Exchange Act by not designing procedures to detect illegal acts and identify related party 
transactions that were material to the financial statements, and Anderson caused CVB’s violations 
of Sections 10A(a)(1) and (2) of the Exchange Act. 
 
       53.    Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X requires an accountant’s report to state 
whether the audit was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.  “Thus, an 
auditor violates Regulation S-X Rule 2-02(b)(1) if it issues a report stating that it had conducted its 
audit in accordance with PCAOB Standards when it had not.”  See In re Andrew Sims, CPA, Rel. 
No.34-59584, AAER No. 2950 (Mar. 17, 2009). 
        
       54.    As a result of the conduct described above, CVB violated Rule 2-02(b)(1) of 
Regulation S-X by issuing an audit report stating that it had conducted its audit in accordance 
with PCAOB Standards when it had not, and Anderson caused CVB’s violation of, Rule 2-
02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X. 
 
                                                 

                                               12 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

FINDINGS  
 
       55.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondents engaged in 
improper professional conduct within the meaning of Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and 
Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
       56.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that CVB willfully violated and 
Anderson willfully aided and abetted CVB’s violations of Sections 10A(a)(1) and (2) of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X within the meaning of Section 4C(a)(3) of 
the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
       57.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that CVB violated Sections 
10A(a)(1) and (2) of the Exchange Act, and Anderson caused CVB’s violations of Sections 
10A(a)(1) and (2) of the Exchange Act. 
 
       58.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that CVB violated Rule 2-02(b)(1) 
of Regulation S-X, and Anderson caused CVB’s violation of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X. 
 
                                              IV. 
        
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanctions agreed to in the Respondents’ Offer.   
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.     CVB shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Sections 10A(a)(1) and (2) of the Exchange Act. 
 
       B.     CVB shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X. 
 
       C.     CVB is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant.  
 
       D.     Anderson shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Sections 10A(a)(1) and (2) of the Exchange Act. 
 
       E.     Anderson shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X. 
 
       F.     Anderson is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant.  After three years from the date of this Order, Anderson may 
request that the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: 
Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as:  
 

                                               13 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Anderson’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
 
                      (a)     Anderson, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 
and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)     Anderson, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB and that inspection did not identify any 
criticisms of or potential defects in Anderson’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
indicate that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
 
                      (c)     Anderson has resolved all disciplinary issues with the PCAOB, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the PCAOB (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Anderson acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Anderson 
appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the PCAOB, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards. 
 
       G.      The Commission will consider an application by Anderson to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, if 
state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an 
application on its other merits. The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition 
to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Anderson’s character, integrity, 
professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
       H.      CVB and Anderson shall pay, jointly and severally, disgorgement of $78,000 and 
prejudgment interest of $12,506.81, and Anderson shall pay a civil money penalty in the amount of 
$40,000, within 60 days of the entry of this Order, to the United States Treasury.  If timely 
payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717.  Payment must 
be made in one of the following ways: 
 
       (1)  Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through the 
       SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or 
 

                                               14 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

       (2)  Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States postal 
       money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and hand-deliver 
       or mail to: 
 
              Enterprise Services Center 
              Accounts Receivable Branch 
              HQ Bldg., Room181, AMZ-341 
              6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
              Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying CVB 
and/or Anderson as Respondents in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a 
copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Edward G. Sullivan, Senior Trial 
Counsel, Division of Enforcement, 950 East Paces Ferry Road, N.E., Suite 900, Atlanta, Georgia 
30326.  
 
       I.     Van Wagoner is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant.  After three years from the date of this Order, Van Wagoner may 
request that the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: 
Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as:  
 
              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Van Wagoner’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
 
                      (a)    Van Wagoner, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 
and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)     Van Wagoner, or the registered public accounting firm with which 
he is associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB and that inspection did not identify any 
criticisms of or potential defects in Van Wagoner’s or the firm’s quality control system that 
would indicate that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
 
                      (c)    Van Wagoner has resolved all disciplinary issues with the PCAOB, 
and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the PCAOB (other 
than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                      (d)    Van Wagoner acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Van 
Wagoner appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply 

                                              15 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

with all requirements of the Commission and the PCAOB, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards. 
 
       J.      The Commission will consider an application by Van Wagoner to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and 
he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  
However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Van Wagoner’s 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
                                                             Brent J. Fields 
                                                             Secretary 

                                                16 
