---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                          Before the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 73421 / October 23, 2014  
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3591 / October 23, 2014 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16210
                                             
                                            :       
                                            :       
                                            :        
       In the Matter of                     :      ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                            :      PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
              Eugene F. Hovanec, CPA,    :       102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                            :      PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
              Respondent.                   :      IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                            :       
____________________________________ :               
                                                    
                                                I. 
   
         The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in 
  the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
  Eugene F. Hovanec (“Respondent” or “Hovanec”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the 
                                  1
  Commission’s Rules of Practice.  
   
                                                II. 
   
          In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an 
  Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for 
  the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
  Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
  findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of 
  these proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, 
                                                   
  1
    Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
   
          The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by order, 
  . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any … accountant . . . who has been by name … permanently 
  enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the 
  Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or 
  of the rules and regulations thereunder.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant 
to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing 
Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                             III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
       1.      Hovanec, age 61, of Westlake Village, California, has been a certified public 
accountant licensed to practice in the State of New York since 1976; the status of his license is 
currently not registered.  Hovanec served as Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial 
Officer at Vitesse from December 1993 through April 2005.  In April 2005, after being promoted 
to Executive Vice President he relinquished his role as CFO.  Hovanec served as Executive Vice 
President until May 17, 2006, when he was terminated by Vitesse’s Board.  Between 1994 and 
2007, Hovanec served on the board of Interlink Electronics, Inc., a U.S. public company.   
        
       2.      Vitesse Semiconductor Corporation (“Vitesse” or the “Company”) is a major 
producer of high-performance integrated circuits for use primarily by systems manufacturers in 
the storage and communications industries.  Vitesse was incorporated in Delaware in 1987, is 
headquartered in Camarillo, California, and maintains a September 30th fiscal year-end.  During 
the relevant period, the Company’s common stock was registered with the Commission 
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and traded on the Nasdaq National Market under 
the symbol VTSS.   
 
       3.      On December 10, 2010, the Commission filed a complaint against Hovanec in 
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Vitesse Semiconductor Corp. et al, No. 10 Civ. 9239 in 
the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York.  On August 8, 2014,   
the court entered an order permanently enjoining Hovanec by consent from future violations of 
Sections 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Sections 10(b), 13(b)(5), and 
16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and Exchange Act Rules 10b-
5, 13a-14, 13b2-1, 13b2-2, and 16a-3, and from aiding and abetting Vitesse’s violations of 
Section 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rules 12b-
20, 13a-1, and 13a-13.  The final judgment also ordered him to pay disgorgement of $781,280, 
which was deemed satisfied by his prior payment and transfer of, respectively, $250,000 and 
458,014 shares of Vitesse stock, to the class action Settlement Fund in Louis Grasso, et.al. v. 
Vitesse Semiconductor, et.al., No. CV 06-02639 R (CTx) (C.D. Cal.), and a $50,000 civil 
penalty. 
        
       4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that starting from 
about September 2001 through April 2006, Hovanec participated in a channel stuffing scheme 
to improperly record revenue on product shipments.   In furtherance of this scheme, Hovanec 
failed to timely record customer credits required by large returns of unwanted product, and he 
directed the misapplication of cash receipts to obscure aged accounts receivables that resulted 
from the failure to timely record credits.  The complaint also alleged, that from 1995 to 2006, 
Hovanec participated in a scheme to backdate stock option grant dates for his personal benefit 

                                               2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

and the benefit of other Vitesse executives and employees.  Hovanec also failed to ensure that 
Vitesse properly recorded compensation expense for backdated stock option grants.  The 
complaint alleges that as a result of these actions, between 1996 and early 2006, Hovanec, 
among other violations: engaged in fraudulent accounting practices that materially misstated the 
Company’s quarterly and annual financial statements, and that Hovanec knowingly 
circumvented or failed to implement Vitesse’s system of internal accounting controls and 
falsified Vitesse’s books, records and accounts; and made material misrepresentations to 
Vitesse’s independent auditor.  The complaint also alleges that as part of his misconduct, 
between June 1996 and February 2005, Hovanec signed registration statements and annual and 
quarterly reports that contained false and misleading financial statements and disclosures.   
 
                                             IV. 
                                                
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest 
to impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Hovanec’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.     Hovanec is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant. 
 
       B.     After ten years (or 120 months) from the date of the Order, Respondent may 
request that the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application 
(attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as: 
        

              1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission. 
Such an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice 
before the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the 
public company for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he 
practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
               
              2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
        

 
                      (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be 
effective;  
                       
                      (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which 
he is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any 

                                              3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that 
would indicate that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
        
                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, 
and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other 
than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
        
                      (d)    Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, 
all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
control standards. 
 
       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current 
and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the  
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or 
qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Brent J. Fields 
                                                    Secretary 

                                              4  
