---------------------Page 1---------------------

                               UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                            Before the 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 79668 / December 22, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3836 / December 22, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17745 
                                                               
                                       
                                      :               ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
In the Matter of                      :               ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-AND- 
                                       :              DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT   
                                       :              TO SECTIONS 4C AND 21C OF THE   
ALOK SARAF, CA                            :              SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
                                                            :  AND RULE 102(e) OF THE         
                                                         :        COMMISSION’S RULES OF       
                                                            :  PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
Respondent.                           :               IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
______________________________ :                      AND A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
                

                                                 I. 
 
        The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Alok 
                                                                     1
Saraf, CA (“Saraf” or “Respondent Saraf”) pursuant to Sections 4C  and 21C of the Exchange 
                                                                    2
Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.     

                                                  
1
       Section 4C(a) provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
               The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the 
               privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is 
               found…(1) not to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others; (2) to be lacking in 
               character or integrity, or to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to 
               have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the 
               securities laws or the rules and regulations issued thereunder. 
 
2
       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
 
                                                 1 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

  
 

                                                       II. 
 
        In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting 
Public Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as 
set forth below.   
                                                         
                                                      III. 
 
                                                                                           3
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds              that : 
                                                         
                                                 SUMMARY 
         
1.      This matter involves issues of auditor independence and improper professional conduct 
related to personal dealings between Alok Saraf, a KPMG India audit employee, and Anup Agarwal 
(“Agarwal”), an accountant for Wipro Limited (“Wipro”).  Beginning in December 2007 and 
                                                                                 4
continuing through October 2009, Saraf accepted money from Agarwal,                who was at that time 
embezzling funds from Wipro       .  During this period, Saraf was responsible for     KPMG India’s audit 
procedures around Agarwal’s work related to Wipro’s foreign exchange and derivatives accounting.      
 
2.      Agarwal hid his embezzlement through fraudulent accounting entries in one of Wipro’s 
                                                    5
Exchange Rate Fluctuation (“ERF”) accounts.   Agarwal disguised his theft as a series of foreign 
currency losses.  During the same time period, two of Agarwal’s supervisors at Wipro also caused 

                                                                                                                                                             
                 The Commission may…deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing 
                 before it…to any person who is found…to have engaged in unethical or improper professional 
                 conduct. 
                  
3
        The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   
 
4
        Saraf accepted money not only from Agarwal, but also from another   Wipro accountant whose job focused on 
matters relating to internal controls.  Saraf also shared an apartment with the latter individual during the relevant time.    
 
5
        Agarwal embezzled   more than $4 million from Wipro from 2006 through  2009.  Saraf maintains that he 
bel ieved the payments from Agarwal were either loans or, in one instance, investment proceeds that Agarwal had 
collected for him.  Saraf paid some money to Agarwal before the embezzlement was uncovered, which Saraf 
characterizes as a loan repayment. 
 

                                                       2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

  
 

other erroneous accounting entries to be made in Wipro’s foreign currency exchange accounts.  
These errors contributed to Wipro’s financial statements being misstated in eleven periodic reports 
that Wipro filed with or furnished to the SEC during fiscal years 2008, 2009, and 2010.     
 
3.      Saraf’s actions compromised his independence from Wipro, and therefore impaired KPMG 
India’s independence from Wipro, its audit client.  As a result, Saraf caused KPMG India to violate 
Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X, 17 C.F.R. § 210.2-02(b)(1), and further caused Wipro’s 
violation of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 thereunder.  Saraf’s work on the 
Wipro engagement also failed to comply with numerous Public Company Accounting Oversight 
Board (“PCAOB”) Auditing Standards, and his conduct, as further described below, constituted 
improper professional conduct within the meaning of Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice and Section 4C of the Exchange Act. 
    
                                        RESPONDENT 
 
                        6
4.     Alok Saraf, CA,    age 32  , is a citizen of the Republic of India.  In 2005, Saraf became a 
member of the I nstitute of C hartered   A ccountants of India (“ICAI”).  Saraf was employed by 
KPMG India from March 2006 through May 2010.  Saraf joined the Wipro engagement team in 
September 2006, began performing audit and review procedures relating to Wipro’s derivatives 
and foreign exchange activities in September 2007, and, in or around December 2008, assumed 
primary responsibility for auditing these accounts.  He became an Audit Manager in October 
2009.  Due to the events described herein, he ceased work on the Wipro engagement in or around 
late December 2009. 
 
                   OTHER RELEVANT INDIVIDUAL AND ENTITIES 
 
5.     KPMG India is an Indian Registered Partnership and a member of the KPMG network 
of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative, a Swiss entity.  
KPMG India audited Wipro’s consolidated financial statements and internal control over 
financial reporting during the time period relevant to this proceeding.  KPMG India is registered 
                 7
with the PCAOB.    
 
6 .    Wipro Limited is an information technology service company incorporated in the 
Republic of India with its principal executive office in Bangalore, India.  Wipro’s American 
Depositary Shares (“ADSs”), each represented by one equity share, are registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act.  Wipro’s ADSs trade on the New 
York Stock Exchange.  As a foreign private issuer, Wipro files annual reports with the 

                                                 
6
       The designation “CA” (Chartered Accountant) is used in India by members of the ICAI. 
 
7
       KPMG India’s PCAOB registration application and the firm’s annual reports filed with the PCAOB list the 
firm’s legal name as “KPMG.”   
 

                                                3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

  
 

Commission on Form 20-F, and furnishes interim financial statements to the Commission on 
Form 6-K.  Through fiscal year 2009, Wipro included in its annual and interim reports financial 
statements denoted as having been prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (“U.S. GAAP”).  Starting in fiscal year 2010, Wipro began providing 
financial statements denoted as having been prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (“IFRS”).   
 
7.     Anup Kumar Agarwal, CA, (1983 – 2009), was a citizen of the Republic of India.  
Agarwal served as an accountant in the company’s Controllership Division from 2006 until April 
2009, where he was responsible for foreign exchange accounting, investment and banking 
operations, and treasury support activities.  Agarwal transferred into Wipro’s mergers and 
acquisitions (“M&A”) group in April 2009.  Agarwal took his own life on or about December 23, 
2009.   
 
                                              FACTS 
 
Saraf Accepted Payments While Working on the Wipro Engagement.    
 
                                                                                               8 
8.      Between December 2007 and October 2009, Agarwal and another Wipro accountant
gave at least 715,000 Indian rupees, or approximately $15,543, to Saraf, who was responsible for 
auditing the company’s derivatives and foreign exchange accounts.  These funds equaled more 
than 5% of Saraf’s annual earnings in fiscal year 2008, nearly 19% of his annual earnings in 
fiscal year 2009, and over 50% of his earnings in fiscal year 2010.   
 
9.      Saraf used the money for expenses associated with his and his brother’s weddings, a 
down payment on his home, and as seed money for his father’s new business.   
 
10.    In the summer of 2009, Saraf asked Agarwal to buy and sell on Saraf’s behalf the 
securities of a publicly traded company operating in the banking sector.     
        
11.    In August 2009, Agarwal deposited 96,000 Indian rupees, or approximately $2,086, into 
a Saraf account as purported trading profits.  In actuality, the funds for the deposit were not 
                                                                               9
trading profits, since Agarwal never executed the trades Saraf had requested.    
  
12.    Agarwal later confessed that he paid Saraf money for the purpose of “maintaining good 
relationship.”   
 

                                                 
8
       Saraf shared an apartment with this individual for a portion of the time that Saraf worked on the Wipro 
engagement.     
 
9
       When Agarwal confessed, he revealed that he had similarly   given embezzled money to eleven Wipro 
employees under the guise of being purported profits from certain investments he had supposedly made for them. 

                                                  4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

  
 

13.     During the relevant time, KPMG India’s risk management policies stated:  “When a 
member of the audit team accepts gifts or hospitality, unless the value is clearly insignificant, the 
threats to independence cannot be reduced to an acceptable level[,]” consequently, “a member of 
the audit team should not accept such gifts or hospitality.”  The policies further provided that 
8,000 Indian rupees, or approximately $174, “represents a notional benchmark as to what could 
be considered to be an insignificant amount.” 
         
14.     Despite knowing that his firm prohibited the payments, Saraf submitted multiple Annual 
Independence and Compliance Confirmations to KPMG India representing, among other things, 
that:  (a) neither he nor any member of his immediate or close family received a gift or had a 
special arrangement with an audit client worth more than 8,000 Indian rupees; and (b) he had 
maintained his independence in accordance with KPMG India policies and the applicable rules 
of external regulators.   
 
15.     Saraf later told KPMG India that he knew that accepting the money was wrong:  
“Whether I have violated firm’s rule – yes I did, I took it very lightly.  …I had…shortage of 
                                   10
cash….  Timing was issue….”     
 
16.     Saraf lacked independence with respect to Wipro as a result of these activities during 
Wipro’s fiscal years 2008, 2009, and 2010.  The Commission promulgated Rule 2-01, 
Qualification of Accountants, codified within 17 C.F.R. Part 210 – Regulation S-X, to implement 
                                                                                                            11
auditor independence requirements established by the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.                   
Rule 2  -01 (b)  states that “[t]he Commission will not recognize an accountant as independent, with 
respect to an audit client, if the accountant is not, or a reasonable investor with knowledge of all 
relevant facts and circumstances would conclude that the accountant is not, capable of exercising 
                                                                        12
objective and impartial judgment….”  17 C.F.R. § 210.2-01(b).               R ule  2 -01(b)   fur ther  states that 
“[in] determining whether an accountant is independent, the Commission will consider all 
relevant circumstances, including all relationships between the accountant and the audit client, 

                                                 
10
        After Agarwal’s confession, Saraf provided banking and other records to KPMG India.  Saraf also repaid 
Wipro the extent of the money that Agarwal claimed he gave Saraf.  Saraf had previously paid some funds to 
Agarwal before the misconduct was uncovered, which Saraf maintains was in repayment of a loan. 
 
11
        The Corporate and Auditing Accountability, Responsibility, and Transparency Act, Pub. L. No. 107-204, 
116 Stat. 745 (2002) (codified in sections of 11, 15, 18, 28, and 29 U.S.C.).  
 
12
        A crucial component of the regulatory reforms enacted in the wake of the stock market crash of 1929 and 
ensuing Great Depression was, and remains, the requirement that all public companies have their financial reports 
audited by independent certified public accountants.  Accordingly, the Congress, the Supreme Court, and the 
Commission have long insisted that auditors must maintain both  independence in fact, and  independence in 
appearance, from the public companies they audit, lest public faith in the reliability of financial statements be 
s haken.  See, e.g., United States v. Arthur Young & Co., 465 U.S. 805, 819 n.15 (1984) (“Public faith in the 
reliability of a corporation’s financial statements depends upon the public perception of the outside auditor as an 
independent professional.”).   
 

                                                       5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

  
 

and not just those relating to reports filed with the Commission.”  Id.  (Emphasis added.)  In 
considering Rule 2-01(b), the Commission looks in the first instance to “whether a relationship 
or the provision of a service…creates a mutual or conflicting interest between the accountant and 
the audit client.”  Preliminary Note to Rule 2-01, ¶ 2.  Saraf’s conduct was inconsistent with the 
standards of Rule 2-01(b).  
 
17.     At all relevant times, KPMG India had policies and quality control procedures in place 
designed to provide reasonable assurance that its professional personnel maintained their 
independence relative to KPMG India’s audit clients, and it represented that it was independent 
in the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (“audit reports”) that it 
provided to Wipro for its fiscal years 2008, 2009, and 2010.  In these audit reports, KPMG India 
stated that it had performed the audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, which, 
                                                                          13
among other things, require an auditor to be independent of its client.       As a result of Saraf’s 
conduct, KPMG India’s audit reports were inaccurate. 
 
18.     Wipro then filed annual reports with the Commission that included KPMG India’s audit 
reports.   
         
Saraf Used an Incomplete Population for Deriving Samples. 
 
19.     Wipro’s auditors did not have access to complete general ledger details for the currency 
fluctuation account that Agarwal used in the embezzlement (the “ERF Account”), which also 
contained other accounting errors and unsubstantiated journal entries not derived from the 
                14
embezzlement.        Agarwal lied  to Saraf  , telling him that it was not possible to extract the 
complete  ERF Account details from Wipro’s general ledger.      
 
20.     Saraf then used an incomplete population to derive samples for testing the ERF Account.  
In conducting the audit of the ERF Account, Saraf requested a download of the SAP general 
ledger data so that he could perform testing procedures on the account balance population.  Upon 
receiving Saraf’s request, Agarwal informed Saraf that it was not possible to provide him with 
the SAP general ledger data for the account.  In response, and at the suggestion of Agarwal, 
Saraf elected to instead use the derivatives contract register, which was a sub-population of the 
                                                 
13
        PCAOB Auditing Standards state that “[i]n all matters relating to the assignment, an independence in 
mental attitude is to be maintained by the auditor or auditors.”  AU § 150.02.  PCAOB Auditing Standards further 
state that independent auditors should “not only be independent in fact” but that they should “avoid situations that 
may lead outsiders to doubt their independence.”  AU § 220.03.     
 
14
        After Agarwal’s embezzlement came to light, Wipro officials learned of other accounting errors and 
unsubstantiated journal entries that did not stem from the embezzlement and that were present in multiple ERF 
accounts as well as certain outstanding liability accounts during a nine quarter period from the fourth quarter of 
fiscal year 2008 through the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010.  In November 2010, Wipro filed its annual report for 
fiscal year 2010, which incorporated disclosures related to its foreign exchange accounting errors, the absolute value 
of which totaled nearly $67 million and impacted eleven periodic reports filed with or furnished to the Commission.   
 

                                                   6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

  
 

total ERF Account, as the population from which to perform his audit testing of the ERF 
Account.  Saraf knew or should have known that the derivatives contract register was not a 
complete population of all ERF Account entries, as evidenced by the fact that he had originally 
requested the correct population from Agarwal and the fact that the sub-population which he 
ultimately used did not reconcile to Wipro’s financial statements.  In addition, Saraf did not 
document in the workpapers Agarwal’s claim regarding the unavailability of the ERF general 
ledger data and KPMG India’s modification to the audit procedures as a result.   
        
21.    Agarwal’s embezzlement and other errors in Wipro’s ERF accounts did not affect the 
register of derivative contracts—the only source of data that Saraf used for audit sampling—and 
                                                                                15
were therefore insulated from possible detection during the sampling process.         
 
                                          VIOLATIONS 
 
22.    Based on his conduct described above, Saraf caused KPMG India to violate Rule 2-
02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X, which requires that an accountant’s report state whether the audit 
was conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards (“GAAS”).  
“[R]eferences in Commission rules and staff guidance and in the federal securities laws to GAAS 
or to specific standards under GAAS, as they relate to issuers, should be understood to mean the 
standards of the PCAOB plus any applicable rules of the Commission.”  SEC Release No. 34-
49708.  Thus, an auditor violates Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X if it issues a report stating 
that it had conducted its audits in accordance with PCAOB standards, which incorporate 
independence requirements, when it had not.  Saraf knew or should have known that his conduct 
would cause KPMG India to violate this rule.      
        
23.    KPMG India’s failure, as a result of Saraf’s conduct, to comply with Rule 2-02(b)(1) of 
Regulation S-X in turn caused Wipro to file annual reports with the Commission on Forms 20-F 
that failed to include financial statements audited by an independent accountant as required by 
Exchange Act Section 13(a) and Rule 13a-1 thereunder.  As a result of his conduct, Saraf caused 
Wipro to violate Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 thereunder on this ground.  
Saraf knew or should have known that his conduct would cause Wipro to violate those 
provisions. 
        
24.    PCAOB Auditing Standards state that “due professional care is to be exercised in the 
planning and performance of the audit and the preparation of the report.”  AU § 230.01, Due 
                                                 16
Professional Care in the Performance of Work.         Due professional care requires the auditor to 
exercise professional skepticism.  AU   §  230.07.  In exercising professional skepticism, the 
auditor “should not be satisfied with less than persuasive evidence because of a belief that 

                                                 
15
       After the discovery of the embezzlement, KPMG India deployed a new audit team to conduct further 
testing procedures for the period from 2008 through 2010 for the general ledger accounts that Saraf had audited.  
 
16
       All references herein to PCAOB Auditing Standards are to those that were in effect at the relevant time. 

                                                  7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

  
 

management is honest.”  AU § 230.09.  PCAOB Auditing Standards also require that auditors 
obtain sufficient competent evidential matter concerning the assertions in an issuer’s financial 
statements, see AU §§ 326.01 and 326.02, and state that an “auditor’s substantive procedures 
must include reconciling the financial statements to the accounting records.”  AU § 326.19, 
Evidential Matter.  When planning a particular sample for a substantive test of details, the 
auditor should consider, among other items, the “characteristics of the population, that is, the 
items comprising the account balance or class of transactions of interest.”  AU § 350.16, Audit 
Sampling.  Additionally, the auditor “should determine that the population from which he draws 
the sample is appropriate for the specific audit objective.”  AU § 350.17.  “Sample items should 
be selected in such a way that the sample can be expected to be representative of the population.  
Therefore, all items in the population should have an opportunity to be selected.”  AU § 350.24.  
To do this, an auditor “should obtain a level of knowledge of the entity’s business that will 
enable him to plan and perform his audit in accordance with [GAAS],” as this “helps the auditor 
in assessing conditions under which accounting data are produced, processed, reviewed, and 
accumulated within the organization.”  AU § 311.06, Planning and Supervision. 
 
25.    In light of Saraf’s conduct set forth above, including his use of an incomplete population 
to derive a testing sample for the ERF Account, Saraf failed to exercise due care and to obtain 
sufficient competent evidential matter in violation of AU §§ 230, 311, 326, and 350. 
 
26.    PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 3, Audit Documentation, establishes general requirements 
for documentation that an auditor should prepare and retain in connection with audits of financial 
statements and reviews of interim financial information.  AS 3.1.  Because it is the written record 
supporting the auditor’s representations in the auditor’s reports, audit documentation should, 
among other things, “[s]upport the basis for the auditor’s conclusions concerning every relevant 
financial statement assertion,” and “[d]emonstrate that the underlying accounting records agreed 
or reconciled with the financial statements.”  AS 3.5.  Additionally, the auditor “must document 
significant findings or issues,” such as “[c]ircumstances that cause significant difficulty in 
applying auditing procedures.”  AS 3.12.   
 
27.    By his conduct discussed above, Saraf did not prepare adequate work paper 
documentation in violation of PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 3. 
        
28.    Finally, as a result of the conduct described above, Saraf engaged in improper 
professional conduct pursuant to Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of 
the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  For accountants, improper professional conduct includes 
“intentional or knowing conduct, including reckless conduct, that results in a violation of 
applicable professional standards.”  Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(A).  In addition, a “single instance of 
highly unreasonable conduct that results in a violation of applicable professional standards in 
circumstances in which an accountant knows, or should know, that heightened scrutiny is 
warranted,” as well as “repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation 
of applicable professional standards,” also constitute improper professional conduct.  Rule 
102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(1)-(2).  Saraf intentionally and knowingly violated KPMG India’s risk 
management policies by taking the payments described above from Wipro employees, and he 
                                                8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

  
 

submitted multiple false Annual Independence and Compliance Confirmations to his firm, all of 
which constituted improper professional conduct under Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(A).  These same 
actions also implicate Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(1), insofar as they were highly unreasonable and 
pertinent to independence requirements, an area of heightened scrutiny.  Further, Saraf’s conduct 
was improper pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) due to his multiple violations of PCAOB 
Auditing Standards governing non-independence-related audit matters. 
                                                 
                                          FINDINGS 
 
29.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Saraf: (i) caused KPMG India to 
violate Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X; (ii) caused Wipro to violate Exchange Act Section 
13(a) and Exchange Act Rule 13a-1; and (iii) engaged in improper professional conduct pursuant 
to Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice. 
 
                                               IV. 
 
30.    In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Saraf’s Offer.    
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
                
       A.      Respondent Saraf shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations 
and any future violations of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X and Section 13(a) of the Exchange 
Act and Rule 13a-1 promulgated thereunder. 
        
       B.      Saraf is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant.   
 
       C.      After three years from the date of this Order, Saraf may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
                      review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with 
                      the Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                      Saraf’s work in his practice before the Commission will be reviewed 
                      either by the independent audit committee of the public company for 
                      which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he 
                      practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
                      Commission that: 
      
                                                9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

  
 

                      (a)     Saraf, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
                              registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley 
                              Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)     Saraf, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
                              associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB and that inspection 
                              did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in Saraf’s or 
                              the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that Saraf will 
                              not receive appropriate supervision; 
 
                      (c)     Saraf has resolved all disciplinary issues with the PCAOB, and has 
                              complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed 
                              by the PCAOB (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Saraf acknowledges his responsibility, as long as he appears or 
                              practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
                              comply with all requirements of the Commission and the PCAOB, 
                              including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to 
                              registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
                              control standards.   
      
       D.      The Commission will consider an application by Saraf to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his chartered accountant license is current and 
he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the ICAI.  However, if licensure is dependent 
on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other 
merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters 
referenced above, any other matters relating to Saraf’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                     Brent J. Fields 
                                                     Secretary 

                                                10 
