---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                         Before the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 75627 / August 6, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3674 / August 6, 2015 
 
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940 
Release No. 4162 / August 6, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-16731 
 
                                                            ORDER INSTITUTING 
In the Matter of                                            ADMINISTRATIVE AND 
                                                            CEASE-AND-DESIST 
       WESLEY N. STARK, CPA  and                            PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT 
       STARKSCHENK EIN, LLP,                                TO SECTION 4C  OF THE 
                                                            SECURITIES EXCHANGE 
Respondent s.                                               ACT OF 1934 , SECTION 
                                                            203(k) OF THE INVESTMENT 
                                                            ADVISERS ACT OF 1940 , 
                                                            AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                            COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                                        
                                                            
                                                            
                                                                               
                                                                     
                                                  
                                             I.  

       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to 
          1
Section 4C  of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), Section 203(k) of the 

                                                 
1
       Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
              The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, 
              to any person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in 
              any way, if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications 
              to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to have 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”), and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s 
                  2
Rules of Practice,  against Wesley   N. Stark, CPA (“Stark”) and StarkSchenkein, LLP 
(“StarkSchenkein”) (collectively, “Respondents”). 

                                                  II. 

        In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondents consent 
to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to 
Section 4C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Section 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act 
of 1940, and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing 
Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.  

                                                  III. 

                                                                                              3
                On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds       that:  

                                              Summary 

                1.      This matter involves violations by Respondents in failing to adequately 
complete requisite surprise examinations pursuant to Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 
206(4)-2 thereunder.  The Planning Group of Scottsdale, LLC (“TPGS”), a former registered 
investment adviser, and its founder, sole owner, president, managing director, and chief 
compliance officer, Reid S. Johnson (“Johnson”), had custody of client funds and securities and 
was required by the Custody Rule to have an independent public accountant conduct annual 
surprise examinations to verify those funds and securities.  For 2010, 2011 and 2012, TPGS 
retained StarkSchenkein LLP to perform the surprise examinations.  Stark and StarkSchenkein 
accepted the TPGS engagements despite lacking the necessary knowledge of, and experience with, 

                                                                                                                                                             
                engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully 
                violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the 
                securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
2
        Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, i n pertinent part, that: 
 
                The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
                appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have 
                engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct.      
 
3
        The findings  herein are made pursuant to Respondents     ’ Offers of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
 

                                                   2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

the Custody Rule.  By failing to complete the 2010 and 2011 surprise examinations adequately, 
and by failing to complete the 2012 surprise examination or withdraw therefrom, Stark and 
StarkSchenkein caused TPGS’s Custody Rule violations and engaged in improper professional 
conduct under Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules 
of Practice. 

                                         Respondents 

              2.     Wesley N. Stark, CPA (“Stark”), age 77, resides in Denver, Colorado.  
Stark is a founding partner and former owner of public accounting firm StarkSchenkein, LLP.  
Although Stark sold his 60% ownership interest effective July 1, 2012, he remained a partner of the 
firm and continued to work part-time.  Stark holds a Series 28 securities license.  Stark has active 
CPA licenses in Colorado and New Mexico and inactive CPA licenses in Washington, Idaho, 
Missouri and New York.  Stark was the engagement partner for the surprise examinations that 
StarkSchenkein performed for TPGS for 2010, 2011, and 2012.   

              3.     StarkSchenkein, LLP (“StarkSchenkein”) is a Colorado limited liability 
partnership headquartered in Denver, Colorado.  StarkSchenkein was a full service public 
accounting firm that provided auditing and accounting, tax, business valuation and legal and 
business consulting services to a variety of clients including broker-dealers and public companies.  
StarkSchenkein had four partners, three of whom were CPAs, and Stark was one of two audit 
partners.  StarkSchenkein registered with the PCAOB in 2003.  StarkSchenkein was engaged to 
perform surprise examinations for TPGS for 2010, 2011 and 2012.   

                                    Other Relevant Entities 

              4.     Reid S. Johnson resides in Scottsdale, Arizona.  Johnson was the founder, 
sole owner, president, and managing director of TPGS, and the president and sole owner of former 
registered broker-dealer Meridian United Capital, LLC (“MUC”).  Johnson also served as TPGS’s 
chief compliance officer in 2010, 2011 (excluding a period of approximately seven months during 
which another employee held this position) and 2012.  Johnson holds Series 7, 24, 63 and 65 
licenses.  In October 2013, Johnson received a 45-day suspension from FINRA in connection with 
a private placement offering for which MUC acted as placement agent, where he was suspended 
for withdrawing $300,000 from escrow before MUC had satisfied the minimum sales contingency 
for the offering. 

              5.     TPGS is an Arizona limited liability company with its principal place of 
business at 8800 North Gainey Center Drive, Suite 176, Scottsdale, Arizona.  It was founded by 
and is 100% owned by Johnson.  TPGS registered with the Commission as an investment adviser 
in July 2006.  In June 2012, Johnson sold TPGS’s investment advisory business with respect to 
individual clients.  TPGS filed a Form ADV-W to withdraw its registration with the Commission 
on March 28, 2013. 

              6.     MUC is an Arizona limited liability company with its principal place of 
business at 8800 North Gainey Center Drive, Suite 176, Scottsdale, Arizona.  MUC registered with 
the Commission as a broker-dealer in July 2002 under a different name; Johnson and a partner 
purchased the broker-dealer in June 2003 and renamed it MUC.  Johnson became the sole owner of 

                                               3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

MUC in December 2011.  MUC withdrew its registration with the Commission effective 
December 15, 2012.  

              7.     Insured Private Equity I, LLC (“IPE”) was founded by Johnson to make 
investments in microcap and start-up companies and to acquire certain single premium immediate 
annuities and life insurance policies.  IPE’s managing member is Oak Canyon Capital, Inc. 
(“Oak Canyon”), which is solely owned by Johnson and operates out of the office at 8800 North 
Gainey Center Drive.  From approximately June 2010 to June 2011, units of IPE were sold by 
MUC in a private placement offering.  Fourteen of the fifteen investors in IPE – 93% – were TPGS 
advisory clients. 

              8.     Eagle Creek Fund, LLC (“Eagle Creek Fund”) was founded by Johnson to 
acquire Series A Preferred Stock in another company located in India.  Eagle Creek Fund’s 
managing member is Eagle Creek Management, LLC (“Eagle Creek Management”), which is 
owned by another entity, Strategic Global Partners, LLC, which is in turn co-owned and co-
controlled by Johnson and one other individual.  Eagle Creek Management operates out of the 
office at 8800 North Gainey Center Drive.  From approximately July 2008 to January 2010, units 
of Eagle Creek Fund were sold by MUC in a private placement offering.  All 97 investors in Eagle 
Creek Fund – 100% – were TPGS advisory clients.   

              9.     The “Guaranteed Income Strategy” or “GIS3 Programs” were created by 
Johnson, and employed an insurance arbitrage strategy involving the purchase of a single premium 
immediate annuity (“SPIA”) and a life insurance policy.  The GIS3 Programs were securitized so 
that investors (besides the insured) could purchase units in an LLC pooled investment vehicle 
holding the SPIA and life insurance policy.  At least twelve of the GIS3 Programs were in turn 
structured so that the LLC did not purchase the SPIA and life insurance policy directly, but 
purchased 100% ownership in a family limited liability limited partnership (LLLP) that held the 
SPIA and life insurance policy.  The GIS3-LLLP Programs had as their managing member either 
Oak Canyon or Meridian Services, LLC (“Meridian Services”), another entity owned solely by 
Johnson that operates out of the office at 8800 North Gainey Center Drive.  At least 118 of the 123 
investors in the GIS3-LLLP Programs – 96% – were TPGS advisory clients.   

              10.    The Investor A Trust dated January 6, 2009 (the “Investor A Trust”) was a 
family trust for a TPGS client.  Johnson served as trustee of the Investor A Trust until at least 
April 4, 2011.  The Investor A Trust invested in Eagle Creek Fund and other pooled investment 
vehicles as well as publicly-traded securities.   

                                          Background 

              11.    TPGS had custody over funds and securities of its advisory clients, IPE, 
Eagle Creek Fund, and the GIS3-LLLP Programs. 

              12.    Paper stock certificates for some securities purchased by IPE were kept in a 
lockbox, which was in turn kept for a time in a locked file cabinet set aside for IPE at the office at 
8800 North Gainey Center Drive.  In or around August 2012, Johnson moved the lockbox to his 
personal residence.  Johnson is the only person with a key to the lockbox. 

                                               4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

              13.    The stock certificates Eagle Creek Fund received for its investments in an 
Indian company were kept in a locked storage facility in Scottsdale, Arizona where office 
documents for TPGS were stored.  Johnson is the only person with a key to the storage facility. 

              14.    The funds raised in each GIS3-LLLP Program were held in an account 
specific to each Program at a bank.  Johnson, in his capacity as owner and manager of Oak Canyon 
or Meridian Services, had authority to obtain possession of the funds in each such account.  These 
funds were used to acquire the ownership interest of family partnership LLLPs that held SPIAs and 
life insurance policies. 

              15.    The Investor A Trust held funds and securities in a brokerage account at a 
third party registered broker-dealer.  The Investor A Trust was an advisory client of TPGS.  
Johnson, in his capacity as trustee for the Investor A Trust, had authority to obtain possession of 
the money and securities in the brokerage account. 

              16.    As the engagement partner and accounting firm retained to perform TPGS’s 
surprise examinations in 2010-2012, Stark and StarkSchenkein caused TPGS’s violations of the 
Custody Rule.  Stark and StarkSchenkein knew or should have known that their conduct would 
contribute to TPGS’s violations of the Custody Rule. 

  Respondent Stark Failed to Complete the 2010, 2011 and 2012 Surprise Examinations in 
                            Accordance with Applicable Standards 

              17.    Stark’s conduct of TPGS’s 2010-2012 surprise examinations violated the 
professional standards for certified public accountants set forth in AICPA’s Attestation Standards 
Section 101 and Compliance Attest Procedures Section 601.   

              18.    Prior to the 2010 surprise examination it performed for TPGS, 
StarkSchenkein had never performed a surprise examination for a registered investment adviser.   

              19.    The engagement team assigned to the 2010 surprise examination had no 
prior experience performing surprise examinations for registered investment advisers, including 
Stark, who served as engagement partner for all three surprise examinations and was responsible 
for supervising the work performed in connection with those engagements.   

              20.    Although the engagement letter for the 2010 surprise examination was dated 
December 30, 2010, StarkSchenkein was not actually retained to perform that examination until 
2011, and work on that surprise examination was performed in 2011 rather than 2010.   

              21.    For both the 2010 and 2011 surprise examinations, StarkSchenkein filed a 
Form ADV-E and Report of Independent Registered Accountant certifying that TPGS was in 
compliance with paragraph (a)(4) of the Custody Rule when in fact it was not.  The Form ADV-E 
for the 2011 surprise examination was filed more than 120 days after the commencement of that 
surprise examination.   

              22.    For the 2012 surprise examination, StarkSchenkein did not complete its 
work and never filed any report or other document relating to that examination; nor did it file a 
Form ADV-E within four business days after termination of work on that surprise examination. 

                                                5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

              23.    Stark deferred to TPGS’s determinations as to what securities it had custody 
over and requested documents and information from TPGS in accordance with those 
determinations.  Neither Stark nor anyone from StarkSchenkein inspected the paper stock 
certificates for the securities held by IPE or Eagle Creek Fund. 

              24.    StarkSchenkein’s engagement letters for the 2010, 2011 and 2012 surprise 
examinations, which were drafted by StarkSchenkein and reviewed and signed by Stark, lacked the 
required language concerning StarkSchenkein’s obligation to file a Certificate on Form ADV-E 
within 120 days of the commencement of the surprise examination, to notify the Commission 
within one business day of any material discrepancies found during the surprise examination, and 
to file a Form ADV-E and statement within four business days after termination of work on the 
surprise examination.  The engagement letters for the 2010 and 2011 surprise examinations also 
improperly disclosed the date that StarkSchenkein intended to commence the surprise examination, 
which the Custody Rule required to be chosen without prior notice or announcement to TPGS.   

              25.    Stark allowed the 2010 surprise examination engagement letter to be dated 
December 30, 2010, and allowed a Form ADV-E to be filed that stated that the 2010 surprise 
examination commenced on December 31, 2010, even though StarkSchenkein was not actually 
retained to perform the examination until 2011 and performed the work on that examination in 
2011 rather than 2010. 

              26.    Although StarkSchenkein’s written quality control procedures required 
engagement quality control review for attest engagements, Stark failed to obtain any engagement 
quality control review for the 2010 and 2011 surprise examinations. 

              27.    Stark failed to obtain sufficient evidence to support the conclusion in the 
surprise examination reports for the 2010 and 2011 surprise examinations that TPGS was in 
compliance with the Custody Rule, because:  (1) StarkSchenkein did not receive any documents 
from sources other than TPGS in connection with the 2010 and 2011 surprise examinations; (2) 
although the reports for the 2010 and 2011 surprise examinations state that confirmation 
procedures were performed, the working papers for these surprise examinations do not include any 
confirmations; (3) the working papers for the 2010 surprise examination indicate that no alternative 
procedures were performed in lieu of confirmations for IPE, Eagle Creek Fund, or three of the 
GIS3-LLLP Programs; (4) although the working papers for the 2010 surprise examination indicate 
that alternative procedures were performed for nine of the GIS3-LLLP Programs, the working 
papers show that these procedures relied exclusively upon bank statements provided by TPGS; and 
(5) while the working papers for the 2011 surprise examination indicate that alternative procedures 
were performed in lieu of confirmations for IPE, Eagle Creek Fund, and all of the GIS3-LLLP 
Programs, the working papers lack documents, such as updated account statements, that would 
have been required for the performance of alternative procedures. 

              28.    Although Stark obtained a signed, written statement from TPGS entitled 
“Management Statement Regarding Compliance With Certain Provisions of the Investment 
Advisers Act of 1940” for both the 2010 and 2011 surprise examinations, these Management 
Statements lacked representations that TPGS had made available all documentation related to 
compliance with the Custody Rule. 

                                               6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

               29.    Stark had no basis to opine that TPGS was in compliance with the Custody 
Rule in the surprise examination reports for the 2010 and 2011 surprise examinations because (1) 
he lacked the necessary knowledge and understanding of, and training and proficiency in, Custody 
Rule compliance requirements; and (2) he failed to obtain sufficient evidence to support that 
conclusion. 

               30.    Stark failed to modify the surprise examination reports for the 2010 and 
2011 surprise examinations, which state that confirmation procedures were performed even though 
the working papers for these surprise examinations do not include any confirmations, and the 
working papers for the 2010 surprise examinations further indicate that no alternative procedures 
were performed in lieu of obtaining confirmations for IPE, Eagle Creek Fund, and at least three of 
the GIS3-LLLP Programs.  Stark also failed to modify the surprise examination reports for the 
2010 and 2011 surprise examinations to reflect TPGS’s noncompliance with the Custody Rule. 

               31.    For the 2010, 2011 and 2012 surprise examinations, Stark violated AICPA 
Attestation Standards §§ 101.19-20 (practitioner must have adequate technical training and 
proficiency), §§ 101.21-22 (practitioner must have adequate knowledge of the subject matter), and 
Compliance Attest Procedure § 601.40 (practitioner should obtain an understanding of specified 
compliance requirements). 

               32.    For the 2010, 2011 and 2012 surprise examinations, Stark violated 
Attestation Standards §§ 101.39-41 (practitioner must exercise due professional care in planning 
and performance, which requires critical review at every level of supervision and judgment, 
including preparation of report) and Compliance Attest Procedures §§ 601.38-39 (practitioner 
should exercise due care in planning, performing, and evaluating the results of his or her 
examination procedures and the proper degree of professional skepticism to achieve reasonable 
assurance that material noncompliance will be detected). 

               33.    For the 2010, 2011 and 2012 surprise examinations, Stark violated 
Attestation Standards §§101.42-50 (practitioner must adequately plan the work and must properly 
supervise any assistants, and should establish an understanding with the client regarding the 
services to be performed for each engagement) and Compliance Attest Procedure §601.41 
(planning an engagement). 

               34.    For the 2010 and 2011 surprise examinations, Stark violated Attestation 
Standards §§101.51-58 (practitioner must obtain sufficient evidence to provide a reasonable basis 
for the conclusion expressed in the report) and Compliance Attest Procedures §§601.48-49 
(practitioner should apply procedures to provide reasonable assurance of detecting material 
noncompliance). 

               35.    For the 2010 and 2011 surprise examinations, Stark violated Attestation 
Standards §§101.59-62 and Compliance Attest Procedure §601.68 (practitioner should obtain from 
the client or other responsible party certain written representations regarding compliance, including 
representation that client has made available all documentation related to compliance with the 
specified requirements). 

                                                7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

               36.    For the 2010 and 2011 surprise examinations, Stark violated Attestation 
Standards §§101.66-67 (practitioner should modify the report if there are material misstatements in 
the same), §§101.71-77 (practitioner must state significant reservations about the engagement, the 
subject matter, and, if applicable, the assertion related thereto in the report), and Compliance Attest 
Procedures §§601.63-67 (practitioner should modify the standard report when examination 
discloses material noncompliance or restriction on the scope of the engagement).  

               37.    For the 2010 and 2011 surprise examinations, Stark violated Attestation 
Standards §§101.100-103 (practitioner should prepare and maintain adequate attest 
documentation). 

               38.    For the 2012 surprise examination, Stark violated Attestation Standard 
§101.64 (practitioner should issue a report or withdraw from the attest engagement). 

      Respondent StarkSchenkein Failed to Complete the 2010, 2011 and 2012 Surprise 
                   Examinations in Accordance with Applicable Standards 

               39.    StarkSchenkein’s conduct of TPGS’s 2010-2012 surprise examinations 
further violated the professional quality control standards set forth in AICPA Quality Control 
                                                                                                4
Standards Sections 10.27, 10.35-36, and 10.38-45 (formerly Sections 10.57, 10.60, 10.80-10.99).   

               40.    From approximately March 2011 to December 2012, StarkSchenkein had in 
place a quality control manual entitled “StarkSchenkein, LLP Quality Control Accounting and 
Auditing Policies and Procedures Manual” (the “Quality Control Manual”).   

               41.    Although StarkSchenkein’s Quality Control Manual had a section entitled 
“Acceptance and Continuance of Clients and Specific Engagements,” this section lacked a specific 
protocol for the firm to assess its competency and capacity for compliance in the context of a 
specific engagement.   

               42.    The Quality Control Manual failed to include any discussion regarding who 
was responsible for determining that the firm was competent to perform an engagement, and 
capable of complying with the relevant legal and ethical requirements; nor did the Quality Control 
Manual include any discussion regarding how those determinations would be made.   

               43.    StarkSchenkein accepted the engagements for TPGS’s surprise 
examinations, even though StarkSchenkein lacked experience with surprise examinations for 
registered investment advisers and Stark lacked the knowledge or understanding of, or training and 
proficiency in, Custody Rule compliance requirements that would have enabled StarkSchenkein to 
competently perform the engagements and comply with the applicable legal requirements.   

               44.    StarkSchenkein’s Quality Control Manual included a subsection entitled 
“Engagement Quality Control Review” that provided that engagement quality control review, also 
described as “a concurring review by an independent partner,” was required on attest engagements, 
                                                 
4
       The AICPA Quality Control Standards (SQCS 7) were revised e       ffective January 1, 2012 
(SQCS 8  ).    The revision changed the numbering of some of the Standards. 

                                                8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

and “must be completed before the report is released.”  This subsection failed to provide any 
mechanism for the assignment of engagement quality control reviewers with suitable experience.   

               45.    The Quality Control Manual also failed to provide for any documentation or 
other mechanism to ensure that engagement quality control review was actually performed and 
completed for an attest engagement before the corresponding report was released. 

               46.    StarkSchenkein failed to obtain engagement quality control review for the 
completed 2010 and 2011 surprise examinations at any time before or after the reports for those 
surprise examinations were issued. 

                                             Violations 

               47.    As a result of the conduct described above, Stark and StarkSchenkein 
caused TPGS’s violation of Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-2 promulgated 
thereunder, which make it a fraudulent, deceptive or manipulative act for any registered investment 
adviser to have custody of clients’ funds or securities unless the adviser:  (1) maintains client funds 
and securities with a qualified custodian; (2) notifies clients of certain information regarding the 
qualified custodian and accounts; (3) has a reasonable basis, after due inquiry, for believing that a 
qualified custodian is providing at least quarterly account statements to clients; and (4) obtains an 
                             5
annual surprise examination.   

               48.    As a result of the conduct described above, Stark and StarkSchenkein 
engaged in improper professional conduct within the meaning of Section 4C of the Exchange Act 
and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 

                                                 IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
 
        Accordingly, pursuant to Section 4C of the Exchange Act, Section 203(k) of the Advisers 
Act, and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, it is hereby ORDERED, 
effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Respondent Stark cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
any future violations Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-2 promulgated thereunder. 
 
       B.     Respondent StarkSchenkein cease and desist from committing or causing any 
violations and any future violations Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-2 
promulgated thereunder. 
        

                                                 
5
       Proof of scienter is not required to establish a violation of Section 206(4) of the 
Advisers   Act and Rule 206(4)-2   thereunder; a showing of negligence is adequate.  See SEC v. 
Steadman, 967 F.2d 636, 647 (D.C. Cir. 1992). 

                                                  9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

       C.     Respondent Stark is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant. 
        
       D.      After three years from the date of this Order, Respondent Stark may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief 
Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as:  
 
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review,  
                      of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the 
                      Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                      Respondent Stark’s work in his practice before the Commission will be 
                      reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
                      for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he 
                      practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or  
        
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the  
                      Commission that: 
 
                      (a)     Respondent Stark, or the public accounting firm with which he is  
                              associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting 
                              Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley 
                              Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
                
                      (b)     Respondent Stark, or the registered public accounting firm with  
                              which he is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that 
                              inspection did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in 
                              his or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that he 
                              will not receive appropriate supervision; 
                
                      (c)     Respondent Stark has resolved all disciplinary issues with the  
                              Board, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any 
                              sanctions imposed by the Board (other than reinstatement by the 
                              Commission); and 
                
                      (d)     Respondent Stark acknowledges his responsibility, as long as he  
                              appears or practices before the Commission as an independent 
                              accountant, to comply with all requirements of the Commission and 
                              the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to 
                              registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
                              control standards. 
 
         E.   The Commission will consider an application by Respondent Stark to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and 
he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  
However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent Stark’s 

                                                10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 
        
       F.      Respondent StarkSchenkein is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing 
before the Commission as an accountant. 
        
       G.      After one year from the date of this Order, Respondent StarkSchenkein may request 
that the Commission consider its reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of 
the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
 
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review,  
                      of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the 
                      Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                      Respondent StarkSchenkein’s work in its practice before the Commission 
                      will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public 
                      company for which it works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as 
                      it practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or   
        
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the  
                      Commission that: 
 
                      (a)     Respondent StarkSchenkein is registered with the Board in  
                              accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such 
                              registration continues to be effective; however, if registration with 
                              the Board is dependent upon reinstatement by the Commission, the 
                              Commission will consider the application on its other merits; 
                
                      (b)     Respondent StarkSchenkein has hired an independent CPA 
                              consultant (“consultant”), who is not unacceptable to the staff of 
                              the Commission and is affiliated with a public accounting firm 
                              registered with the Board, that has conducted a review of 
                              StarkSchenkein’s quality control system and submitted to the staff 
                              of the Commission a report that describes the review conducted 
                              and procedures performed, and represents that the review did not 
                              identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the firm’s quality 
                              control system.  StarkSchenkein agrees to require the consultant, if 
                              and when retained, to enter into an agreement that provides that for 
                              the period of review and for a period of two years from completion 
                              of the review, the consultant shall not enter into any employment, 
                              consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional 
                              relationship with StarkSchenkein, or any of its present or former 
                              affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their 
                              capacity.  The agreement will also provide that the consultant will 
                              require that any firm with which he/she is affiliated or of which 
                              he/she is a member, and any person engaged to assist the 
                              consultant in performance of his/her duties under this Order shall 

                                                11 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

                              not, without prior written consent of the staff, enter into any 
                              employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other 
                              professional relationship with StarkSchenkein, or any of its present 
                              or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting 
                              in their capacity as such for the period of the review and for a 
                              period of two years after the review; 
                
                      (c)     Respondent StarkSchenkein has resolved all disciplinary issues with  
                              the Board, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any 
                              sanctions imposed by the Board (other than reinstatement by the 
                              Commission); and 
                
                      (d)     Respondent StarkSchenkein acknowledges its responsibility, as long  
                              as it appears or practices before the Commission as an independent 
                              accountant, to comply with all requirements of the Commission and 
                              the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to 
                              registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
                              control standards. 
 
       H.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent StarkSchenkein to 
resume appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that its state CPA license is 
current and it has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the 
Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may 
include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to 
Respondent StarkSchenkein’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear 
or practice before the Commission. 
                                        
       I.      Respondent Stark shall pay a civil money penalty in the amount of $15,000 to the 
Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States 
Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  Payment shall be made in the following 
installments:  (1) $3,000 within 10 days of entry of the Order; (2) $3,000 within 90 days of entry of 
the Order; (3) $3,000 within 180 days of entry of the Order; (4) $3,000 within 270 days of entry of 
the Order; and (5) $3,000 within 360 days of entry of the Order.  If any payment is not made by the 
date the payment is required by this Order, the entire outstanding balance of civil penalties, plus 
any additional interest accrued pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, shall be due and payable immediately, 
without further application.  Payment must be made in one of the following ways:   
 
               (1)    Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                      will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
                
               (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
                

                                                12 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

              (3)     Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
              Enterprise Services Center 
              Accounts Receivable Branch 
              HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
              6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
              Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Stark as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the 
cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Victoria Levin, Assistant Regional Director, 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, Los Angeles Regional Office, 444 South 
Flower St., Suite 900, Los Angeles, CA  90071. 
 
       J.     Respondent StarkSchenkein shall pay disgorgement of $12,750, which represents 
profits gained as a result of the conduct described herein, prejudgment interest of $1,353 and 
civil penalties of $15,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general 
fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  Payment shall be 
made in the following installments:  (1) $5,820.60 within 10 days of entry of the Order; (2) 
$5,820.60 within 90 days of entry of the Order; (3) $5,820.60 within 180 days of entry of the 
Order; (4) $5,820.60 within 270 days of entry of the Order; and (5) $5,820.60 within 360 days of 
entry of the Order.  If any payment is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order, 
the entire outstanding balance of disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and civil penalties, plus any 
additional interest accrued pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600 or pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, 
shall be due and payable immediately, without further application.  Payment must be made in one 
of the following ways:   
 
              (1)     Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                      will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
               
              (2)     Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
               
              (3)    Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
              Enterprise Services Center 
              Accounts Receivable Branch 
              HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
              6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
              Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 

                                               13 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
StarkSchenkein as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a 
copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Victoria Levin, Assistant 
Regional Director, Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, Los Angeles Regional 
Office, 444 South Flower St., Suite 900, Los Angeles, CA 90071. 
        
                                                V. 

       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by 
Respondent Stark, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or 
other amounts due by Respondent Stark under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent 
order, decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the 
violation by Respondent Stark of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under 
such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 

 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                     Brent J. Fields 
                                                     Secretary 
        

                                                14 
