---------------------Page 1---------------------

 

 

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                        Before the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
  Release No. 78896 / September 21, 2016 
   
  ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
  Release No. 3804 / September 21, 2016 
   
  ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
  File No. 3-17561 
 
 
   
  In the Matter of                             ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
                                               DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
          PARK NATIONAL                        SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
          CORPORATION,                    EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING 
                                               FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE-
  Respondent.                                  AND-DESIST ORDER AND CIVIL 
                                               PENALTIES 
 
 
 
 

                                            I. 
 
        The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
  and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section  21C of the Securities 
  Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Park National Corporation (“PRK,” 
  “Respondent” or the “Company”). 
 
                                            II. 
 
        In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, PRK has submitted an Offer of 
  Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose 
  of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
  which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as 
  to the Commission’s jurisdiction over PRK and the subject matter of these proceedings, which 
  are admitted, PRK consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings 
  Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making 

 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 

 Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order  and Civil Penalties (“Order”), as set forth 
 below. 
 
                                                 III. 
 
                                                                            1 
         On the basis of this Order and PRK’s Offer, the Commission finds    that:  
 
                                           Summary 
 

         This matter involves PRK’s improper accounting for its Allowance for Loan Losses 
 (“ALLL”) relating to certain impaired loans—the largest of which were construction real estate 
 land and development loans—at its Vision Bank (“Vision”) subsidiary in 2010 and 2011.  During 
 2010 and the first three quarters of 2011, PRK understated its reported ALLL by improperly 
 incorporating into its impairment analyses of problem loans certain cash flows anticipated from 
 guarantors.  The anticipated cash flows were incorporated into the impairment calculations even 
 though PRK was in active litigation with most of the guarantors and did not expect to collect 
 amounts due based on the contractually scheduled terms.  In addition, PRK’s ALLL was also 
 understated as a result of PRK’s use of improper collateral valuations provided by an outside 
 contractor.  The outside contractor, who was not an appraiser, calculated values that were in most 
 instances materially higher than those obtained from professional appraisers.  PRK did not know 
 what factors or methodology the contractor used to arrive at the valuations and there was no 
 documentation to support the valuations.  PRK’s use of the anticipated guarantor cash flows from 
 litigation and the unsubstantiated collateral valuations was not in accordance with generally 
 accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).  On February 28, 2012, PRK filed restatements to 
 correct the reported ALLL for fiscal year 2010 and the first three quarters of 2011.  The 
 restatements reflected an increase of more than $22 million to PRK’s provision for loan losses and 
 ALLL and a 25% decrease in income before taxes for fiscal year 2010, with additional 
 adjustments to the relevant 2011quarters. 
 
         Accordingly, PRK violated the reporting, books and records and internal accounting 
 controls  provisions of the Exchange Act. 
 
                                Respondent and Related Entity 
 
       1.      Park National Corporation (NYSE Amex LLC symbol “PRK” or the “Company”) is a 
bank holding company.  As of March 9, 2016, its market capitalization was $1.35 billion.  During the 
relevant period, PRK primarily operated through two wholly-owned subsidiaries.  The recording of 
ALLL at PRK’s Vision subsidiary formed the basis of the violations cited in this Order.  
        
       2.      Vision Bank was a PRK subsidiary, and a Florida state-chartered bank with its main 
office in Panama City, Florida.  Vision was a large construction real estate land and development 
(“L&D”) lender that experienced unprecedented growth in its troubled loan portfolio during the recent 

                                                           
1
        The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other 
person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
                                                  2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 

banking financial crisis.  PRK completed a sale of substantially all of Vision’s performing assets on 
February 16, 2012.  Subsequently, PRK moved Vision’s troubled assets to a non-bank subsidiary. 

        
                                              Facts 
 
       A.     Accounting for the Impairment of Specifically Identified Loans 
        
       3.      Banks identify certain loans to be assessed for individual loan impairment.  Often, 
these are large loans with heightened risk profiles.  A loan is impaired when, “based on current 
information and events, it is probable that a creditor will be unable to collect all amounts due 
according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement.”  Accounting Standards Codification 
(“ASC”) 310-10-35-16.  When a loan is impaired, the ALLL is increased through a provision for 
loan losses that is charged to earnings.   GAAP further provides that “a creditor shall measure 
impairment based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s 
effective interest rate, except that as a practical expedient, a creditor may measure impairment 
based on a loan’s observable market price, or the fair value of the collateral if the loan is a 
collateral-dependent loan.”  ASC 310-10-35-22.  “If a creditor bases its measure of loan 
impairment on a present value calculation, the estimates of expected future cash flows shall be the 
creditor’s best estimate based on reasonable and supportable assumptions and projections”.  ASC 
310-10-35-26.  Pursuant to ASC 310-10-35-22, PRK used a present value approach, therefore was 
not availing itself of the practical expedient that allows the creditor to measure loan impairment 
based on the fair value of collateral. 
 
       4.     In performing this calculation PRK looked to the value of the underlying collateral 
and to expected future cash flows from guarantors.  To assess the “fair value” of the collateral, 
PRK was required to assess “the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a 
liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.” ASC 820-
10-35-2.  The market approach to determining fair value uses prices and other relevant 
information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable assets.  ASC 820-
10-55-3A.  In commercial real estate, recent appraisals performed by an independent and certified 
real estate appraiser are widely recognized as persuasive evidence (absent actual sale) of fair 
value. PRK added the anticipated guarantor cash receipts to improper collateral valuations to 
arrive at the total expected cash flows to be utilized in the present value calculations. 

       B.     Background to Rapid Growth in PRK’s Impaired Loans 

       5.     Prior  to  PRK’s  March  9,  2007  acquisition  of  Vision’s  Florida  and  Alabama 
branches, all of PRK’s banking operations were in Ohio and surrounding regions.  Historically, the 
Ohio banking operations had produced very low loan losses.  However, PRK’s 2007 acquisition of 
Vision introduced a large number of L&D loans to the Company’s loan portfolio.  These loans 
were riskier than the type of loans that were predominant in PRK’s Ohio-based portfolio, and 
deteriorated significantly by 2009, partly in response to the banking and financial crisis in the U.S.    
For the period ended March 31, 2007—the period in which PRK acquired Vision—PRK reported 
an ALLL of $79.8 million.  By the end of 2007, PRK reported an ALLL of $87.1 million, of 
which $20.1 million was attributed to Vision loans.  PRK’s ALLL continued to climb in 2008 to 
$100 million and in 2009 to $117 million, as the problem loans at Vision continued to deteriorate. 
                                                3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 

       C.      PRK Use of Anticipated Guarantor Cash Flows in Impairment Calculations 

       6.      On April 28, 2009, PRK retained the services of an outside contractor (“Outside 
Contractor”) to evaluate Vision’s distressed properties collateralizing past due loans and to 
execute a plan of action to recover value on the properties, including through litigation with 
guarantors.  During the next several years, Outside Contractor functioned as a special assets 
department for Vision’s troubled loan portfolio, including assisting PRK in realizing value from 
the distressed properties and the guarantors.  Information collected and developed by Outside 
Contractor regarding guarantor assets and liabilities and collateral valuations was created by 
Outside Contractor to support decisions related to litigation and collection efforts, but was not 
intended by Outside Contractor for use in impairment calculations. 

       7.      However, by the end of 2009, PRK had begun to limit impairments on several 
problem Vision L&D loans by including cash flows PRK thought it could collect from the loan 
guarantors through litigation.  PRK referred to this use of anticipated cash flows from guarantors 
as “guarantor support.”  By year end 2010, PRK’s use of guarantor support in impairment 
calculations for Vision problem loans had grown significantly.  Whereas PRK had relied on close 
to $7 million in guarantor support to limit impairments at year end 2009, the number grew to over 
$21.5 million by year end 2010.   

       8.      PRK misapplied GAAP by including cash flows from future possible litigation 
settlements relating to the guarantee agreements that were subject to litigation.  Any expected cash 
flows associated with litigation should not have been included in the impairment measurement for 
the loan.  Regardless, PRK’s assumptions that it would prevail in litigation and that collections 
would be forthcoming within two years were not reasonable or supportable at the time given a 
variety of factors.  Some of the guarantors were actively defending their claims including by filing 
cross-suits and drawing the litigation out with various tactics.  In many cases, the lawsuits were 
only recently filed and the litigants were still in discovery, and in at least one instance, the planned 
law suit had not yet been filed.  Further, PRK did not consistently have attorney letters or other 
reasonable basis on which to support the assumption of litigation success.   Because of these 
uncertainties associated with the litigation, guarantor support did not warrant reduction to the 
provision for loan losses. 

       9.      Furthermore, even if a positive judgment for PRK were reached, its ability to 
collect the funds from the guarantor was not reasonable or supportable.  The dollar amount of the 
anticipated cash flows was set, in part, in reliance on outdated personal financial statements 
(“PFS”) of the guarantors that were often two or more  years old.  Because the PFS were outdated, 
and guarantors were no longer cooperating with PRK, there was no way to validate reported 
liquidity in the PFS.  For similar reasons, it was impossible to gauge the full extent of guarantors’ 
liabilities.  Further, attempts to cross-check or validate guarantors’ self-reported property 
valuations and encumbrances using available public information was not consistently reliable.  At 
the time of its February 2012 restatement, PRK had made recoveries of less than $10 million on 
six of the 22 guarantor support loans (representing less than half of the over $22 million in 
guarantor support it used in impairment calculations at the end of 2010).  

       D.      PRK begins to Use Outside Contractor Valuations in Impairment Calculations 

                                                4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 

       10.    In addition, during 2009, PRK also began to substitute Outside Contractor 
valuations of the property collateral associated with the problem loans for the valuations indicated 
by current and previous appraisals.  PRK began this practice because it disagreed with the 
valuations arrived at by the professional appraisals.   PRK, however, did not know how Outside 
Contractor determined collateral valuations or what factors or methodology it used. Outside 
Contractor valuations were provided to PRK orally, without supporting documentation.  In fact, 
PRK was aware that there were not comparables to support Outside Contractor’s collateral 
valuations.  In many instances the orally provided valuations were higher than the valuations from 
professional appraisers on record.  Not surprisingly, the collateral valuations provided orally by 
Outside Contractor turned out in most instances to be materially larger than the actual collateral 
values.  

       11.  PRK’s use of Outside Contractor’s unsupported and undocumented collateral 
valuations was contrary to GAAP and PRK’s disclosed fair value practice, and was inconsistent 
with PRK’s existing internal policies.  PRK was required to determine the fair value of the 
underlying collateral in its impairment analysis.  Consistent with GAAP, PRK disclosed in its 
2010 annual report that it followed a policy that required it “to maximize the use of observable 
inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.”  The disclosure 
further defined fair value as “the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a 
liability between market participants at the balance sheet date,” expressing a preference firstly for 
pricing derived from active and observable markets and secondly from observable market data for 
similar assets in the case of markets that are not active.  Because PRK did not know how the 
Outside Contractor arrived at its valuations and because PRK was aware that Outside Contractor’s 
valuations was often unsupported by available comparables, PRK had no reasonable basis to 
conclude that Outside Contractor’s valuations reflected the pricing that would be determined by 
orderly transactions between market participants.  In addition, while PRK’s internal policies 
related to loan origination required that “[a]ll loans greater than $250,000 secured by real estate in 
whole or in part must be appraised by an appraiser acceptable to the corporation and be 
appropriately certified under current federal and state approved requirements,”   when it came to 
PRK’s use of Outside Contractor’s unsupported and undocumented collateral valuations, PRK 
lacked corresponding internal policy.  

       12.    At the 2010 year end audit of PRK, PRK’s outside auditor requested documentation 
for Outside Contractor valuations used by PRK in impairment calculations.  PRK did not have the 
requested documentation and Outside Contractor ultimately proved incapable of producing 
documentation adequate to support the orally provided collateral valuations.  As a result, PRK’s 
outside auditor proposed an uncorrected audit adjustment to the Company, and identified a 
significant deficiency in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting related to the 
measurement of the impairment of loans and the establishment of the carrying amount of other 
real estate owned.  Over the next several months, PRK underwent a process of obtaining updated 
professional appraisals to replace the collateral valuations provided orally by PRK’s Outside 
Contractor.  The updated appraisals ultimately were $8.1 million less than the valuations provided 
by Outside Contractor, and caused PRK’s outside auditor to revise the previously identified 
significant deficiency at 2010 year end to a material weakness.  The effect of using the inflated 
collateral value was to reduce the amount of impairment of the problem loans and ultimately to 
reduce any required provision to ALLL in the relevant period and to reduce the ALLL in 

                                                5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 

prospective periods.    

       E.     Guarantor Support Questioned 

       13.    In May 2011,Vision’s primary bank regulator questioned guarantor support.  These 
questions  prompted  Vision  to  re-examine  its  reliance  on  guarantor  support  to  reduce  the 
impairment associated with certain of its loans in accordance with ASC 310.  By the end of 2010,  
PRK’s carrying value related to guarantor support was close to $22 million and involved at least 
22 L&D loans—the $22 million represented a third of the nearly $65 million in carrying value of 
the 22 Vision L&D loans. 

       F.     PRK’s Restatement 
 
       14.    On February 12, 2012 PRK restated its financial statements for the year ended 
2010, and the quarters ended March 31, June 30, and September 30, 2011.  The restatements 
reflected $22.2 million more impairment than originally reported for the fiscal year ended 
December 31, 2010 with corresponding decreases in net income before taxes of $24.8  million  
($99.5 million vs. $74.7 million)  representing a 25% decrease.  Restatements for the first three 
quarters of 2011 reflected corresponding increases in ALLL of 17%, 9 % and 7%, respectively for 
each period.   
        
                                           Violations 

 
       15.    As a result of the conduct described above, PRK violated Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder, which require every issuer of 
securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act to file with the Commission 
accurate periodic reports, including annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 
10-Q, and mandate that the required reports must contain any further material information 
necessary to make the required statements made in the reports not misleading. 
 
       16.    As a result of the conduct described above, PRK violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of 
the Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to make and keep books, records, and 
accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their transactions and 
dispositions of their assets. 
        
       17.    As a result of the conduct described above, PRK violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of 
the Exchange Act, which requires issuers of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the 
Exchange Act to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to  provide 
reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial 
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 

                                               IV. 
 
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
 agreed to in the Offer. 
 

                                                6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 

        Accordingly, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
        A.     PRK cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future 
 violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 
 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder. 
 
        B.     PRK shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money penalty in 
 the amount of $500,000 (Five Hundred Thousand Dollars) to the Securities and Exchange 
 Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange 
 Act Section 21F(g)(3).  If timely payment is not  made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 
 31 U.S.C. § 3717.   Payment must be made in one of the following ways: 
 
               (1) PRK may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will 
               provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request; 
 
               (2) PRK may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through the 
               SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or 
 
               (3) PRK may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States postal 
               money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and hand- 
               delivered or mailed to: 
 
                       Enterprise Services Center 
                       Accounts Receivable Branch 
                       HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-
                       341 
                       6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                       Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
        C.     Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter 
 identifying Park National Corporation as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number 
 of these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to  Scott 
 Friestad, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE, 
 Washington, DC 20549-5010. 
 

                                               7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 

 D.             Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be 
 treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To 
 preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, PRK agrees that in any Related Investor Action, 
 it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any award of 
 compensatory damages by the amount of any part of PRK’s payment of a civil penalty in this 
 action (“Penalty Offset”).  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, 
 PRK agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, 
 notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the 
 Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil 
 penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty imposed in this 
 proceeding.   For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a private damages 
 action brought against PRK by or on behalf of one or more investors based on substantially the 
 same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this proceeding. 
 
        By the Commission. 
 
 
                                                      Brent J. Fields 
                                                      Secretary 

                                                 8 
