---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                          
 
                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 71261 / January 9, 2014 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3525 / January 9, 2014 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15673 
 
                                            ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE -AND-
In the Matter of                            DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
                                            SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
      ALCOA INC .,                          EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING 
                                            FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE -
Respondent.                                 AND-DESIST ORDER  
 
                                                
 
 
                                           I.  
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Alcoa Inc. (“Alcoa” or “Respondent”).   
                                             
                                           II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent consents to the Commission’s 
jurisdiction over the Respondent and the subject matter of these proceedings,  and to the entry of 
this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set 
forth below.   
 
 
 

                                             
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
 
 
                                               III. 
 
                                                                                1
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that:  
 
                                           Summary 
        
       1.     These proceedings arise from violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 
1977 (the “FCPA”) [15 U.S.C. § 78dd] by Respondent Alcoa Inc. (“Alcoa”) concerning alumina 
sales to Aluminium Bahrain B.S.C. (“Alba”), an aluminum manufacturer owned primarily by the 
Kingdom of Bahrain. 

       2.     Between 1989 and 2009, Alcoa of Australia (“AofA”) and Alcoa World Alumina 
LLC (“AWA”) (collectively, the “AWAC Subsidiaries”) retained a consultant to act as their 
middleman in connection with sales of alumina to Alba and knew or consciously disregarded the 
fact that the relationship with the consultant was designed to generate funds that facilitated 
corrupt payments to Bahraini officials.  The consultant was paid a commission on sales where he 
acted as an agent and received a markup on sales where he acted as a purported distributor. On 
sales where the consultant acted as a purported distributor, no legitimate services were provided 
to justify the role of the consultant as a distributor.   The consultant used these funds to enrich 
himself and pay bribes to senior government officials of Bahrain.   

       3.     The commission payments to the consultant and the alumina sales to the 
consultant made pursuant to the distribution agreements were improperly recorded in Alcoa’s 
books and records as legitimate commissions or sales to a distributor and did not accurately 
reflect the transactions.  The false entries were initially recorded by the AWAC Subsidiaries 
which were then consolidated into Alcoa’s books and records.  During the relevant period, Alcoa 
also lacked sufficient internal controls to prevent and detect the improper payments.   

                                          Respondent 
                                                  
       4.     Alcoa is a corporation organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania.  Until 2006, Alcoa’s principal place of business was in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
in the Western District of Pennsylvania.  In 2006, Alcoa moved its principal place of business to 
New York, New York.  Alcoa issues and maintains a class of publicly traded securities registered 
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which are traded on the New 
York Stock Exchange.   

       5.     Alcoa is a global provider of primary aluminum and fabricated aluminum.  Alcoa 
is also a global provider of smelter grade alumina, the raw material that is supplied to smelters to 

                                                 
1
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   
 
                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

produce aluminum.  Alcoa refines alumina from bauxite it extracts from its global mining 
operations.  Alcoa operates worldwide through subsidiaries and affiliated entities in North 
America, Asia, Australia, Europe, South America, Africa and the Caribbean.     

                            Other Relevant Entities and Persons 

       6.     Alcoa World Alumina and Chemicals (“AWAC”) is an unincorporated global 
bauxite mining and alumina refining enterprise formed in 1995 between Alcoa and Alumina 
Limited (“Alumina”), the majority and minority owners of AWAC, respectively.  AWAC 
operates through a number of affiliated enterprise companies, including AofA and AWA, with 
each enterprise company being owned by Alcoa and Alumina in proportion to their respective 
ownership interests in the AWAC enterprise.  In matters of strategy and policy, the AWAC 
enterprise companies receive direction and counsel from a “Strategic Council” that is chaired by 
Alcoa.  Alcoa controls the Strategic Council and as such the operations and personnel of AWAC 
report to Alcoa personnel in New York.     

       7.     Alcoa of Australia Limited (“AofA”) is the AWAC enterprise company that 
owns and operates AWAC’s bauxite mining and alumina refining assets in Australia.  AofA’s 
principal place of business was located in Melbourne, in the state of Victoria, Australia, until 
1996, and is now located in Perth, in the state of Western Australia.  AofA owns and operates 
mines in Western Australia that extract bauxite, which AofA then processes into smelter grade 
alumina in refineries it owns and operates.  AofA sells the smelter grade alumina to aluminum 
smelters it owns in the state of Victoria as well as to customers and alumina traders around the 
world.  AofA maintains bank accounts in the United States.  AofA’s books, records, and 
accounts are consolidated into Alcoa’s books and records and reported by Alcoa in its financial 
statements.  

       8.     Alcoa World Alumina LLC (“AWA”) is a Limited Liability Company formed 
under Delaware law, which maintains its principal place of business in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
in the Western District of Pennsylvania.  AWA owns and operates (either directly or indirectly) 
bauxite mining and alumina refining assets in North America, Europe, South America, and the 
Caribbean.  AWA is an AWAC enterprise company.  Beginning in or around 2000, executives at 
AWA’s offices in Pittsburgh and Knoxville, Tennessee, assumed primary responsibility for all of 
AWAC’s relationships with global alumina customers, including Alba.  AWA personnel 
responsible for these functions reported to Alcoa personnel in New York. 

       9.     Consultant A is an international middleman who resides in London and is a 
citizen of Canada, Jordan, and the United Kingdom.  Consultant A had close contacts with 
certain members of Bahrain’s Royal Family, some of whom were senior officials in the 
Government of Bahrain.  Consultant A met with Alcoa executives to discuss matters relating to 
the relationship with Alba. Consultant A operates through many shell companies, including 
Alumet Ltd (“Alumet”) and AA Alumina and Chemicals Ltd (“AAAC”). 

       10.    Aluminium Bahrain B.S.C. (“Alba”) is an aluminum smelter operating in 
Bahrain.  At the relevant times, the state holding company of the Kingdom of Bahrain, the 
Mumtalakat, which was controlled by the Bahrain Ministry of Finance, held 77 percent of the 

                                              3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

shares of Alba.   The Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (“SABIC”), which is majority-owned 
and controlled by the government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, held a twenty percent 
minority stake in Alba, and three percent of Alba’s shares were held by a German investment 
group. The majority of profits earned by Alba belonged to the Mumtalakat, though part of the 
profit was permitted to be used by Alba for its operations.  The Bahrain Ministry of Finance had 
to approve any change in Alba’s capital structure and had to be consulted on any major capital 
projects or contracts material to Alba’s operations.  Members of the Royal Family of Bahrain and 
representatives of the government sat on the Board of Directors of Alba, controlled its Board, 
and had primary authority in selecting its chief executive officer and chief financial officer.   

                                             Facts 

       11.    Alcoa’s global bauxite and alumina refining business (the “Alumina Segment”) is 
part of the Global Primary Products group, one of Alcoa’s three business lines.  The Alumina 
Segment operationally consists of multiple subsidiaries.  During the relevant time period, the 
Alumina Segment reported to the global head of the Global Primary Products group, who was an 
executive of Alcoa and reported directly to Alcoa’s CEO.   

       12.    Alcoa exercised control over the Alumina Segment, including the AWAC 
Subsidiaries.  Alcoa appointed the majority of seats on the AWAC Strategic Council, and the 
head of Global Primary Products served as its chair.  Alcoa and AofA transferred personnel 
between them, including alumina sales staff; Alcoa set the business and financial goals for 
AWAC and coordinated the legal, audit, and compliance functions of AWAC; and the AWAC 
Subsidiaries’ employees managing the Alba alumina business reported functionally to the global 
head of the Alumina Segment.  Alba was a significant alumina customer for Alcoa’s Alumina 
Segment and during the relevant period, members of Alcoa senior management met both with 
Alba officials and Consultant A to discuss matters related to the Alba relationship, including a 
proposed joint venture between Alcoa and Alba.  During this time, Alcoa was aware that 
Consultant A was an agent and distributor with respect to AofA’s sales of alumina to Alba and 
that terms of related contracts were reviewed and approved by senior managers of Alcoa’s 
Alumina Segment in the United States. 

       13.    From at least 1989 to 2009, AofA supplied alumina to Alba through a series of 
multi-year contracts.  During this period, Alba was one of Alcoa’s largest alumina customers 
purchasing a total of nearly 19 million metric tons beginning with an annual volume of 300,000 
metric tons increasing to 1.6 million metric tons.  

       14.    Beginning in approximately 1989, AofA retained Consultant A to assist in long-
term contract negotiations with Alba and Bahraini government officials, including the 
negotiation and execution of a new long-term alumina supply agreement in 1990 (the “1990 
Supply Agreement.”)   

       15.    By 1996, Consultant A was playing a significant role in the relationship between 
the AWAC Subsidiaries and Alba. Around this time, Alba complained to the AWAC 
Subsidiaries that it was paying an above-market price for alumina.  AofA learned that Alba was 
seeking to increase its alumina supply requirements from 600,000 metric tons a year up to 

                                               4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

970,000 metric tons a year, and that other major global suppliers of alumina were seeking to 
capture these additional requirements.  The AWAC Subsidiaries’ sales team decided that, to 
“comply with business norms in the Middle East[,]” the AWAC Subsidiaries would propose 
supplying some of Alba’s alumina through Alumet, which was one of Consultant A’s shell 
companies, which would pay the “required commission.”  An AofA manager proposed using 
Consultant A as the intermediary because Consultant A was “well versed in the normal ways of 
Middle East business” and “will keep the various stakeholders in the Alba smelter happy….”   

       16.    Despite the red flags inherent in this arrangement, AofA’s in-house counsel 
approved the arrangement without conducting any due diligence or otherwise determining 
whether there was a legitimate business purpose for the use of a third party intermediary.  

       17.    The AWAC Subsidiaries’ sales managers traveled to London in August 1996 to 
meet with Consultant A to discuss this proposal to route some of AofA’s alumina through 
Consultant A’s company for resale to Alba.  Upon their return to Australia, an AWA manager 
told other members of the AWAC Subsidiaries sales team that: 

       It feels like we subsidise the Sheiks and end up with a 5 year outcome that is about 
       $10-15/t lower than the average of the rest of our business. 

       18.    In September 1996, the AWAC Subsidiaries’ sales managers traveled to London 
to meet with Alba and Consultant A and agreed to an addendum to the 1990 Supply Agreement 
(“1996 Addendum”).  Under the 1990 Agreement, AofA was supplying 600,000 metric tons per 
year to Alba under a formula pricing structure (as opposed to a “market”-based price).   Under 
the 1996 Addendum, AofA agreed to supply Alba with an additional 285,000 metric tons per 
year through one of Consultant A’s shell companies using a “market”-based price that resulted in 
pricing that was, at times, actually below market and allowed Consultant A to mark up his sales 
of alumina to Alba. 

       19.    Employees at AWA and AofA either knew or were willfully blind to the high 
probability that Consultant A would use his commissions and markup to pay bribes. For 
example, in an internal document memorializing the negotiations surrounding the 1996 
Addendum, a member of AofA’s alumina sales staff wrote: 

       The methodology of business in the Middle East is a complex web of interactions 
       that are necessarily difficult to understand to disguise the payment of commissions.  
       We have in the past maintained a position of paying our agent a 1% commission on 
       the basis of the agent work that he has done for us.  We have also, however, been 
       asked by Alba to supply some cargoes through other intermediaries, including our 
       agent, on various occasions and we can only assume at the purpose this 
       serves….Given that we want to supply the full tonnage going into the future we 
       need to fix on the best methodology for us given the commission requirements and 
       the contract structure. 

       20.    The sales staff was concerned that the monies paid to Consultant A come from 
Consultant A’s markup on sales to Alba, rather than through increased commission payments.  

                                               5  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

An AWA manager was concerned that the monies paid to Consultant A not come at AofA’s 
expense and that the sales to Consultant A “protect our position.”  

       21.      In 2001, with the coming expiration of the 1990 Supply Agreement and 1996 
Addendum, AWA approached Alba to extend and expand the alumina supply relationship.  Alba 
agreed to extend the existing supply relationship (“2001 Extension”).  Following the 2001 
Extension, AofA stopped selling alumina directly to Alba; all AofA alumina destined for Alba 
was instead routed through AAAC, which was one of Consultant A’s shell companies.  

       22.     In 2004, AofA entered into another distribution agreement with Consultant A that 
involved the sale of up to 1.6 million metric tons of alumina to Alba every year through AAAC, 
which was a shell company of Consultant A.  This arrangement lasted until approximately 
December 31, 2009. 

       23.    The 2001 Extension and 2004 purported distributorship agreements facilitated the 
corrupt payments by allowing Consultant A to impose an inflated markup on his purported sales 
of alumina to Alba and used the markup from those sales to enrich himself and pay bribes to 
senior government officials of Bahrain.   

       24.    From 2002 to 2004, AWA caused Consultant A and AAAC, one of his shell 
companies to receive in excess of $79 million in markups on alumina sales to Alba.  Consultant 
A also received a commission under the terms of the 2001 Extension.  The 2001 Extension 
provided for a commission of 0.125 percent of all payments made by Consultant A to AofA for 
alumina.  From 2002 to 2004, AofA paid Consultant A “commissions” of $493,509. 

       25.    In 2002, Alcoa was attempting to negotiate a joint venture with Alba, in which 
Alcoa would supply Alba with alumina from the AWAC system’s refineries, and, in exchange, 
Alba would supply Alcoa with aluminum.  Alcoa retained Consultant A to act as a consultant 
and to privately lobby a Bahraini government official on behalf of Alcoa, and Alcoa entered a 
consulting agreement with Consultant A pursuant to which Consultant A would receive an $8 
million “success fee” based on limited specified negotiation “advice and assistance to Alcoa” if 
the joint venture were successful.   

       26.    As part of the negotiations, Alcoa proposed a joint venture structure that 
contemplated supplying alumina to Alba through a distributor.  On or about March 26, 2003, an 
in-house attorney in Alcoa’s legal department raised questions about the deal, and requested an 
explanation for the role of the distributor.  On or about March 27, 2003, AWA sales executive 
responded that “[t]he Distributorship rol[e] is something the Bahrain Government wants” and 
that Alcoa “shouldn’t get too involved with how the Distributor and the Government interact.  
We are currently selling the alumina we supply to Alba through a Distributor.”    

       27.    On September 15, 2003, Alcoa and Alba agreed to a Memorandum of 
Understanding (“MOU”) outlining an equity investment by Alcoa in Alba and providing for 
alumina to be sold to the Government of Bahrain, as majority shareholder of Alba, “directly or 
through an associated company of Alcoa satisfactory to GoB [Government of Bahrain] and 
Alcoa.”  The MOU was approved by the same Bahraini government official on behalf of Alba 

                                              6  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

that Consultant A had been hired to lobby.   Subsequently, the joint venture negotiations fell 
through, and Consultant A was never paid the $8 million success fee. 

       28.     By the summer of 2004, AofA was supplying approximately one million metric 
tons of alumina annually to Alba, but Consultant A’s companies were invoicing Alba for the 
shipments.  Unlike a true distributorship, Consultant A’s companies never took possession of the 
alumina, assisted with the shipping arrangements, or otherwise performed any legitimate services 
for either the AWAC Subsidiaries or Alba.  The only function the shell companies provided was 
to invoice Alba for the shipments at a significant markup.   

       29.    Alba’s obligations under pre-existing supply arrangements with AofA were set to 
expire at the end of 2004.  In the summer of 2004, AWA sought to secure a new long term 
alumina supply agreement with Alba.  On or around August 5, 2004, Alcoa management was 
advised by a former senior Alcoa executive who had a relationship with Consultant A that if they 
attempted to negotiate a direct contractual relationship between AofA and Alba, rather than 
negotiate a supply arrangement through Consultant A and one of his companies, some or all of 
Alba’s business could be lost to another alumina supplier. 

       30.    On or about August 19, 2004, AWA management met with Consultant A at 
Consultant A’s London Office to discuss using Consultant A’s companies “as Alcoa’s exclusive 
distributor in the region.” On or about August 22, 2004, an AWA executive negotiating with 
Consultant A sent an email documenting with more specificity certain items that were discussed 
at the meeting.  Among them, the executive noted that “[w]e agreed to supply [Consultant A] 
with pricing indications for supply to [AAAC, one of Consultant A’s shell companies] by 8/24 so 
he can have these for his meeting with [a Bahraini official].  We mentioned pricing close to 
14%.”  The email also noted that “[a Bahraini official] is holding on to publishing [Alba’s] 
alumina tender [to the market] until he has further discussions with [Consultant A] on 8/29.”  
The pricing terms per metric ton of alumina that the AWA executive quoted to Consultant A at 
the meeting in London were less than the pricing terms for Alba that an AWA sales executive 
had quoted to a Bahraini official approximately one month earlier. 

       31.    On or around September 29, 2004, AWA facilitated Consultant A’s tendering a 
bid to supply Alba up to 1.6 million metric tons of alumina for ten years commencing in 2005. 
On or about October 8, 2004, the in-house attorney responsible for supporting the alumina 
business suggested terminating the consulting agreement that Alcoa had entered with Consultant 
A in connection with the proposed joint venture, as “the terms of [Consultant A’s] current 
engagement created a lot of anxiety in the organization.”  However, an AWA executive decided 
that the consultancy agreement should not be terminated until AofA had secured a new long-term 
alumina supply agreement with Alba. 

       32.    On or about November 1, 2004, a Bahraini official caused Alba to accept 
Consultant A’s tender offer for a ten-year supply of alumina. On or about December 31, 2004, 
AofA entered a sham ten-year distributorship agreement with AAAC, one of Consultant A’s 
shell companies to purportedly supply annually up to 1.78 million metric tons of alumina for sale 
to Alba from 2005 to 2014 (the “2005 Alba Supply Agreement”).   It was actually AofA that 
would continue shipping the alumina directly from its refineries in Western Australia to Alba. 

                                               7  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

       33.    On or about March 4, 2005, a representative of Consultant A sent another 
Bahraini government official a final, unexecuted contract for the purported supply agreement 
between Consultant A and Alba.  On or about June 8, 2005, the final agreement negotiated 
between Consultant A and Alba was signed by that government official on behalf of Alba.  The 
agreement’s effective date was January 1, 2005, and its term was through December 31, 2014.  
The agreement provided that Consultant A would supply Alba with 1.508 million metric tons of 
alumina in 2005 and 1.6 million metric tons of alumina thereafter for each remaining contract 
year.  Alba was required to bear the cost of shipping and insurance.  

       34.    For sales of alumina to Alba, Consultant A did not receive payment until after 
Consultant A was bound to pay AofA.  Given the discrepancy in the timing of payment, 
Consultant A sought a line of credit from Alcoa to cover the cost of alumina shipments to Alba 
until Alba remitted payment to Consultant A. Alcoa’s policies and procedures required its 
customers to submit financial statements for an extension of credit.  Consultant A, however, 
refused to provide financial statements to Alcoa’s credit department.  Nevertheless, in or around 
December 2004, senior management of AWA invoked an override procedure that resulted in an 
Alcoa executive approving a $23 million line of credit to Consultant A’s companies. 

       35.    Thereafter, in each of contract years 2005 through 2009, Alcoa continued to grant 
overrides to extend increasing credit lines to Consultant A’s purported distributorships.  By 
2007, Alcoa was extending a credit line of $58 million.  During this period, Alcoa granted 
Consultant A credit lines that were significantly greater than those granted by Alcoa to any other 
third party.  By facilitating the extension of credit to Consultant A, AWA enabled the purported 
distributorship scheme by allowing Consultant A to defer paying AofA for the multi-million 
dollar shipments of alumina to Alba until Consultant A received payment from Alba.  

       36.    From 2005 through 2009, AWA caused Consultant A to receive in excess of $188 
million on the markup of alumina sales to Alba.  This money was transferred from the initial 
accounts in which payment from Alba was received through various bank accounts controlled by 
Consultant A, including accounts in the name of shell companies. 

       37.    The AWAC Subsidiaries knew or consciously disregarded the fact that Consultant 
A was inserted into the Alba sales supply chain to generate funds to pay bribes to Bahraini 
officials.  Ultimately, these funds facilitated at least $110 million in corrupt payments to Bahraini 
officials.  The vast majority of those funds were generated from the markup between the price 
Consultant A sold to Alba and the price that AofA sold to Consultant A.  Those funds were also 
generated from the commissions that AofA paid to Consultant A. 

       38.    The recipients of the corrupt payments included a senior Bahraini official, 
members of the board of directors of Alba, and senior management of Alba.  Examples of the 
corrupt payments include: 

     In August 2003, Consultant A’s shell companies made 2 payments totaling $7 million to 
       accounts for the benefit of a Bahraini government official who Consultant A had been 
       retained to lobby. Two weeks later, Alcoa and Alba signed an agreement in principle to 
       have Alcoa participate in Alba’s plant expansion. 

                                               8  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

     In October 2004, Consultant A’s shell company paid $1 million to an account for the 
       benefit of that same government official.  Shortly thereafter, Alba agreed in principle to 
       Alcoa’s offer for the 2005 Alba Supply Agreement. 

     In or around the time of the execution of the final 2005 Alba Supply Agreement, 
       Consultant A-controlled companies paid another Bahraini government official and/or his 
       beneficiaries $41 million in three payments. 

 
                                Legal Standards and Violations 

       C.     Under Section 21C(a) of the Exchange Act, the Commission may impose a cease-
and-desist order upon any person who is violating, has violated, or is about to violate any 
provision of the Exchange Act or any rule or regulation thereunder, and upon any other person 
that is, was, or would be a cause of the violation, due to an act of omission the person knew or 
should have known would contribute to such violation. 
        

                                        FCPA Violations 

       D.     Under Section 30A(a) of the Exchange Act it is unlawful for any issuer, officer, 
director, employee, or agent of such issuer or any stockholder thereof acting on behalf of the 
issuer, to make use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly 
in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay, or authorization of the payment of any 
money, or offer, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any 
foreign official  or any person, while knowing that all or a portion of such money or thing of 
value will be offered, given, or promised, directly or indirectly, to any foreign official for the 
purposes of (i) influencing any act or decision of such foreign official in his official capacity, (ii) 
inducing such foreign official to do or omit to do any act in violation of the lawful duty of such 
official, or (iii) securing any improper advantage in order to assist such issuer in obtaining or 
retaining business for or with, or directing business to, any person.  [15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1]. 

       E.     Additionally, under Section 30A(g) of the Exchange Act it is unlawful for any 
issuer organized under the laws of the United States, or a State, territory, possession, or 
commonwealth of the United States or for any United States person that is an officer, director, 
employee, or agent of such issuer or a stockholder thereof acting on behalf of such issuer, to 
corruptly do any act outside the United States in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to 
pay, or authorization of the payment of any money, or offer, gift, promise to give, or 
authorization of the giving of anything of value to any of the persons or entities set forth in 
paragraphs (i), (ii), and (iii) of subsection (a) of this section for the purposes set forth therein, 
irrespective of whether such issuer or such officer, director, employee, agent, or stockholder 
makes use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce in furtherance of 
such offer, gift, payment, promise, or authorization. 

                                                9  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

       F.     This Order contains no findings that an officer, director or employee of Alcoa 
knowingly engaged in the bribe scheme.  As described above, Alcoa violated Section 30A of the 
Exchange Act by reason of its agents, including subsidiaries AWA and AofA, indirectly paying 
bribes to foreign officials in Bahrain in order to obtain or retain business.  AWA, AofA, and their 
employees all acted as “agents” of Alcoa during the relevant time, and were acting within the 
scope of their authority when participating in the bribe scheme.  As described above, Alcoa 
exercised control over the Alumina Segment, including the AWAC Subsidiaries.  Alcoa 
appointed the majority of seats on the AWAC Strategic Council, and the head of the Global 
Primary Products group served as its chair.  Alcoa and AofA transferred personnel between 
them, including alumina sales staff; Alcoa set the business and financial goals for AWAC and 
coordinated the legal, audit, and compliance functions of AWAC; and the AWAC Subsidiaries’ 
employees managing the Alba alumina business reported functionally to the global head of the 
Alumina Segment.  Alba was a significant alumina customer for Alcoa’s Alumina Segment and 
during the relevant period, members of Alcoa senior management met both with Alba officials 
and Consultant A to discuss matters related to the Alba relationship, including a proposed joint 
venture between Alcoa and Alba.  During this time, Alcoa was aware that Consultant A was an 
agent and distributor with respect to AofA’s sales of alumina to Alba and that terms of related 
contracts were reviewed and approved by senior managers of Alcoa’s Alumina Segment in the 
United States. 

       G.     Under Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act issuers are required to make and 
keep books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and disposition of the assets of the issuer.  [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)]. 

       H.     Under Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act issuers are required to devise and 
maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that 
(i) transactions are executed in accordance with management’s general or specific authorization; 
(ii) transactions are recorded as necessary (I) to permit preparation of financial statements in 
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such 
statements, and (II) to maintain accountability for assets; (iii) access to assets is permitted only in 
accordance with management’s general or specific authorization; and (iv) the recorded 
accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and 
appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.  [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B)]. 

       I.      As described above, Alcoa violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act by 
improperly recording the payments, to Consultant A, as agent commissions when the true 
purpose of these payments was to make corrupt payments to Bahraini officials.  Alcoa violated 
Section 13(b)(2)(A) when Alcoa recorded the sales to Consultant A as a distributor.  The false 
entries were initially recorded by the AWAC Subsidiaries which were then consolidated and 
reported by Alcoa in its consolidated financial statements.  Alcoa also violated Section 
13(b)(2)(B) by failing to devise and maintain sufficient accounting controls to detect and prevent 
the making of improper payments to foreign officials. 
        

                                               10   
---------------------Page 11---------------------

                                   Alcoa’s Remedial Efforts 

       J.      Alcoa made an initial voluntary disclosure of certain of these issues to the 
Commission and Department of Justice in February 2008, and thereafter Alcoa’s Board of 
Directors appointed a Special Committee of the Board of Directors to oversee an internal 
investigation by independent counsel.  Alcoa’s counsel regularly reported on the results of the 
investigation and fully cooperated with the staff of the Commission.   

       K.     Alcoa also undertook extensive remedial actions including:  a comprehensive 
compliance review of anti-corruption policies and procedures, including its relationship with 
intermediaries; enhancing its internal controls and compliance functions; developing and 
implementing enhanced FCPA compliance procedures, including the development and 
implementation of policies and procedures such as the due diligence and contracting procedure 
for intermediaries; and conducting comprehensive anti-corruption training throughout the 
organization. 
 
                                       Criminal Plea Agreement  
                                                     
       Respondent’s subsidiary AWA has agreed, with the United States Department of Justice, 
Criminal Division, Fraud Section, to plead guilty for criminal conduct relating to certain of the 
findings in the Order. 
        
                                               IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Alcoa’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.      Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent Alcoa cease and desist 
from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 30A, 13(b)(2)(A) 
and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act;   
 
       B.      Respondent shall pay disgorgement of $175,000,000.  A portion of Respondent’s 
disgorgement obligation in the amount of $14,000,000 shall be deemed satisfied by Respondent’s 
payment of $14,000,000 in forfeiture as part of Respondent’s resolution with the United States 
Department of Justice (“DOJ”) filed in the Western District of Pennsylvania.  In the event that 
Respondent’s resolution with DOJ requires a forfeiture payment less than $14,000,000, the 
Respondent acknowledges that its disgorgement obligation will be credited up to the amount of the 
payment required by Respondent’s resolution with DOJ, with the remaining balance due and 
payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission within 14 days of payment pursuant to 
Respondent’s resolution with DOJ.  In light of the impact of the disgorgement payment upon 
Respondent’s financial condition and its potential to substantially jeopardize Alcoa’s ability to 
fund its sustaining and improving capital expenditures, its ability to invest in research and 
development, its ability to fund its pension obligations, and its ability to maintain necessary cash 

                                               11   
---------------------Page 12---------------------

reserves to fund its operations and meet its liabilities, Respondent shall pay the disgorgement in 
five equal payments  based upon the following schedule: 
        
                     Amount                        Date Due 
                     $32,200,000                   January 9, 2014 
                     $32,200,000                   January 9, 2015 
                     $32,200,000                   January 9, 2016 
                     $32,200,000                   January 9, 2017 
                     $32,200,000                   January 9, 2018 
                              
If timely payment of disgorgement is not made within 14 days of when due, additional interest 
shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600.  Payment must be made in one of the following 
ways:   
 
       (1) Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will 
       provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
       (2) Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through the 
       SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
       (3) Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States postal 
       money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and hand-
       delivered or mailed to:  
 
                             Enterprise Services Center 
                             Accounts Receivable Branch 
                             HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                             6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                             Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a  cover letter identifying 
Alcoa Inc. as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy  
of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Charles Cain, Deputy Unit Chief, 
FCPA  Unit,  Division  of  Enforcement,  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission,  100  F  St.,  NE, 
Washington, DC 20549.   
 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
 
                                                   Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                   Secretary 

                                              12   
