---------------------Page 1---------------------

 

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                        Before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
  Release No. 78558 / August 11, 2016 
 
  ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
  Release No. 3794 / August 11, 2016 
   
  ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
  File No. 3-17379 
 
   

                                              ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND- 
   In the Matter of                          DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
                                             SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
          KEY E NERGY                        EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING 
          SERVICES , INC.,                     FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE-
                                              AND-DESIST ORDER 
   Respondent. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                            I. 

         The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
  cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the 
  Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Key Energy Services, Inc. (“Key 
  Energy” or “Respondent”). 

                                            II. 

         In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Key Energy has submitted an 
  Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.    Solely for 
  the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
  Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
  findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of 
  these proceedings, which are admitted, Key Energy consents to the entry of this Order 
  Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange 
  Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth 
  below.

                                           1 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 

                                                III. 

                                                                                   1
           On the basis of this Order and Key Energy’s Offer, the Commission finds   that:  

                                            Summary 

        1.     These proceedings arise from violations of the books and records and internal 
 control provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (the “FCPA”) [15 U.S.C. § 
 78m(b)(2)] by Respondent Key Energy.  From August 2010 through at least April 2013, Key 
 Energy’s Mexican subsidiary (“Key Mexico”) made improper payments to a contract 
 employee at Petróleos Mexicanos (“Pemex”), the Mexican state-owned oil company, to 
 induce him to provide Pemex inside information as well as advice and assistance on 
 contracts with Pemex and amplifications or amendments to those contracts.  These funds 
 were transferred to the Pemex employee via an entity that provided purported consulting 
 services to Key Mexico (the “Consulting Firm”) despite the absence of appropriate 
 authorization of the relationship with the Consulting Firm and lack of supporting 
 documentation regarding the purported consulting work performed. 

        2.     Key Mexico improperly recorded the transfers to the Consulting Firm as 
 legitimate business expenses in Key Mexico’s books and records.  Key Mexico’s books and 
 records were consolidated into Key Energy’s books and records.  During the relevant 
 period, Key Energy failed to implement and maintain sufficient internal controls including 
 within Key Mexico relating to interactions with Pemex officials and failed to respond to 
 indicia of risk relating to Key Mexico’s improper use of consultants. 

                                Respondent and Related Entities 

        3.     Key Energy is a Maryland corporation with its headquarters in Houston, TX.  
 The company’s common stock is registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and listed on 
 the New York Stock Exchange (ticker:  KEG).    Key Energy and its various  subsidiaries provide 
 rig-based well-services.  On September 4, 2015, Key Energy announced that for 30 consecutive 
 trading days the price for Key's common shares was below the minimum $1.00 per share 
 requirement for continued listing on the NYSE.  Key Energy’s common shares have continued to 
 trade below $1.00 since that time.  Between December 2014 and October 2015, Moody’s 
 downgraded Key Energy’s bonds three times and changed its outlook to “negative.” 

        4.     Key Mexico consists of two legal entities:  an operating company, Key Energy 
 Services de Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V., and a service payroll company, Recursos Omega S. de 
 R.L. de C.V., which is the legal employer of Key Energy’s employees in Mexico.  Both are 
 Mexican entities and indirectly wholly-owned subsidiaries of Key Energy.  Key Mexico was 
 formed to service wells owned by Pemex.  It currently has one remaining contract with Pemex, 
 which expires in October 2016.  Throughout the relevant time period, Key Mexico’s financial 
 results were included in the consolidated financial statements that Key Energy filed with the 
 Commission.  Key Mexico provides rig-based services such as maintenance, workover, and 
                                                            
1
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other  person 
or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 

 recompletion of existing wells, completion of newly-drilled wells, and plugging and 
 abandonment of wells at the end of their useful lives.   

                                             Facts 

        Key Energy’s Business in Mexico  

        5.      In 2004, Key Energy began taking steps to enter the Mexican market.  In 2007, 
 Pemex awarded Key Mexico its first contract in Mexico, and subsequently awarded the 
 company additional contracts and contract extensions.  Both Key Energy and Key Mexico 
 officers and employees were involved in Key Mexico’s obtaining of Pemex business.  From 
 2010 through 2013, Mexico accounted for 3.5%-10% of Key Energy’s annual consolidated 
 revenue.  In April 2015, Key Energy announced that it was winding down its international 
 business outside of North America, and intends to exit Mexico once its current contractual 
 obligations to Pemex are complete. 

        Contact between Key Mexico and the Consulting Firm 

        6.      In 2008, Pemex announced a call for bids on a public tender for Contract 
 Number 424048861 (“Contract No. 8861”), through which Pemex sought field production 
 solutions and well workover services in its North Region.  Key Mexico competed against three 
 other bidders as part of a public tender and was awarded Contract No. 8861.  Contract No. 8861 
 was signed on September 26, 2008.  The initial contract was for a 24-month term and provided 
 for Key Mexico to be paid $65 million.  The contract term and amount were subsequently 
 increased through a series of amendments or “amplifications.” 

        7.      In or around August 2010, Key Mexico hired the Consulting Firm to “provide 
 expert advice on contracts with . . . Pemex,” including Contract No. 8861.  The hiring of the 
 Consulting Firm was arranged and approved by the Key Mexico country manager.  Although 
 the country manager knew that the Consulting Firm had ties to the Pemex employee and that 
 payments to the Consulting Firm were used to funnel Key Mexico funds to the Pemex employee 
 in exchange for his assistance with obtaining Pemex business, the country manager never 
 disclosed the nature of this relationship to Key Energy. 

        8.      The Pemex employee was employed in the department that negotiated and 
 approved Key Mexico’s contracts with Pemex.  Over a period of three years, the Key Mexico 
 country manager approved payments to the Consulting Firm with ties to the Pemex employee in 
 exchange for the employee providing assistance to Key Mexico in bidding for and obtaining 
 amendments to contracts with Pemex, including providing Key Mexico with non-public 
 information about upcoming Pemex tenders and lobbying internally at Pemex for lucrative 
 amendments to Key Mexico contracts with Pemex.  Some of the communications were sent 
 from the Pemex employee’s official Pemex email account and some from a personal email 
 account.  From 2010 through at least 2013, Key Mexico paid the Consulting Firm tied to the 
 Pemex employee at least $229,000 for purported consulting services.                             

                                              3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 

        9.      While Key Energy personnel eventually became aware at least as early as 2011 
 that Key Mexico was doing business with the Consulting Firm, Key Energy allowed Key 
 Mexico to continue using the vendor even though Key Mexico did not enter into a written 
 agreement or contract with the Consulting Firm until 2013.  Moreover, Key Energy and Key 
 Mexico failed to conduct due diligence on the Consulting Firm, despite Key Energy policies 
 requiring that such due diligence be performed.  As a result, Key Energy did not uncover the 
 Consulting Firm’s relationship to the Pemex employee until 2014, when Key Energy began an 
 investigation into other allegations concerning the country manager. 

         The Amendment to Contract No. 8861 

        10.     In 2011, Key Mexico continued performing under Contract No. 8861.  On 
 February 15, 2011, the Pemex employee, from his official Pemex email account, forwarded the 
 Key Mexico country manager an internal chain of emails among Pemex officials writing “I am 
 sending you this for your information and so we are ready.”  The attachments to the email string 
 included Pemex internal memoranda concerning certain new contracts that Pemex intended to 
 put out for tender. 

        11.     At that time, Pemex’s plan to put out the tenders on the new contracts had not 
 yet been publicly announced.  However, it is clear that Key Energy and Key Mexico had already 
 learned of the forthcoming tenders.  Upon receiving the email from the Pemex employee, Key 
 Mexico’s country manager forwarded it to Houston, to Key Energy employees including a 
 senior vice president, writing “The tenders are coming now.”  It was clear from the e-mail that it 
 contained detail of internal Pemex deliberations, but the recipients at Key Energy apparently did 
 not question how or why the country manager was in possession of and sharing such 
 communications.  Rather, after discussing the potential new contracts that had been flagged by 
 the Pemex  employee, the senior vice president wrote, “Why don’t we convince them to add 90 
 million to the current package?”  The “current package” was the existing contract, Contract No. 
 8861.  The country manager suggested scheduling a conference call with the senior vice 
 president to discuss the matter further. 

        12.     One week later, on February 23, the Pemex employee, again from his Pemex  
 e-mail account, forwarded the Key Mexico country manager an unexecuted internal Pemex 
 memo, under which Pemex personnel recommended an increase of $60 million to the funds 
 available to pay Key Mexico under Contract No. 8861.  The Pemex employee wrote in the cover 
 e-mail to the country manager: “I am sending this to you so you can see I am working.” 

        13.     On March 24, 2011, a little more than a month later, Key Mexico and Pemex 
 executed an amendment to Contract No. 8861 increasing the contract amount by approximately 
 an additional $60 million. 

        14.     The Pemex employee, through the Consulting Firm, continued to provide Key 
 Mexico with assistance and information in connection with Contract No. 8861 and with bids for 
 and execution of other contracts with Pemex through at least 2013.                             

                                              4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 

         The Payments to the Pemex Employee and the Consulting Firm 

        15.     Starting in August 2010, Key Mexico paid the Consulting Firm a monthly 
 consulting fee of approximately $4,500.  This amount was increased to approximately $8,000 a 
 month in July 2011, after Key Mexico obtained an additional contract with Pemex.  Between 
 August 16, 2010 and May 7, 2014, Key Mexico made 58 payments to the Consulting Firm 
 totaling approximately $561,000.  Of that amount, at least $229,000 were payments made 
 through April 2013 in connection with consulting services that were described in Key Mexico’s 
 accounting system as “Expert advice on contracts with the new regulations of 
 Pemex/Preparation of technical and economic proposals/Contract Execution.”  In addition, the 
 Pemex official received four wire transfers directly to his personal bank accounts from the 
 personal bank account of Key Mexico’s country manager totaling approximately $6,400. 

        16.     There is no record that the Pemex employee or the Consulting Firm provided 
 any legitimate consulting services for Key Mexico.  Instead, the Consulting Firm was used as a 
 conduit through which the Pemex employee received payment from Key Mexico. 

        17.     The country manager resigned from Key Mexico in February 2014. 

         Key Energy’s FCPA Related Policies and Internal Accounting Controls - Lax 
         Internal Controls 

        18.     During the relevant period, Key Energy had various written compliance policies, 
 including a Code of Conduct, an FCPA Compliance Manual (which included an FCPA Policy 
 and an FCPA Procedure), and a Procurement Policy.  But despite having a compliance program 
 on paper, Key Energy failed to implement accounting controls in its Mexico subsidiary 
 sufficient to prevent improper payments to a vendor with ties to a Pemex employee.  At some 
 point during the course of the payments to the Consulting Firm Key Energy’s then legal 
 department became aware of the relationship with the Consulting Firm (but not the Consulting 
 Firm’s connection to the Pemex employee).  Although the consulting arrangement with the 
 Consulting Firm violated Key Energy compliance policies because it had been entered without 
 pre-approval from Key Energy legal, because no due diligence had been conducted on the 
 Consulting Firm and because no written contract had been entered with the firm, Key Energy 
 allowed the relationship and payments to continue, and  Key Mexico allowed payment of the 
 invoices from the Consulting Firm despite a lack of sufficient documentation supporting the 
 purported services and the ties between the Consulting Firm and the Pemex employee. 

        19.     In addition to failing to respond to various indicia of risk concerning the 
 relationship with the Consulting Firm tied to the Pemex employee, Key Energy also failed to 
 devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable 
 assurances that transactions were executed in accordance with management’s general or specific 
 authorization and recorded as necessary to maintain accountability of assets by failing to 
 respond effectively to signs indicating that gifts provided by Key Mexico to Pemex officials 
 were being given as rewards for providing Key Mexico with increased business that year.  
 Specifically, in 2012, Key Energy approved Key Mexico’s contribution of gifts totaling 
 approximately $118,000 to Pemex’s annual Christmas season celebration with the 
 understanding that the gifts were to be intended for a raffle.  However, employees of Key 

                                              5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 

 Mexico did not disclose to Key Energy that Key Mexico planned to give at least $55,000 of 
 these gifts to approximately 130 specific Pemex officials working in the regions in which Key 
 Mexico operated.  In approving the gifts Key Energy ignored that the amount spent on approved 
 gifts was more than nine times what had been spent on purported raffle gifts in 2010 and 
 approximately 26 times what had been spent in 2011.  Key Energy also failed to consider the 
 implications of the explanation by Key Mexico’s country manager that the higher gift amount in 
 2012 was correlated to Key Mexico having done more business with Pemex that year.  Had Key 
 Energy sought more information, it may have learned that Key Mexico was providing gifts to 
 Pemex officials during a period Key Mexico was engaged in ongoing negotiations with Pemex, 
 including negotiations to obtain additional funding for work required under its contracts with 
 Pemex. 

        20.     Key Energy also failed to adequately monitor and supervise the senior 
 executives at Key Mexico to ensure they complied with and enforced anti-corruption policies 
 and kept accurate records concerning payments to consultants and gifts to Mexican government 
 officials.  Key Mexico had no independent compliance staff or internal audit function that had 
 authority to intervene into management decisions and, if appropriate, take remedial actions.  
 Key Energy also failed to enforce its pre-approval processes for consultants in Mexico, instead 
 allowing Key Mexico to engage consultants without the required due diligence, pre-approval, or 
 written contract—even once members of Key Energy’s then legal department became aware 
 that Key Mexico was using the Consulting Firm.  As a result, in many instances, the senior 
 employees of Key Mexico had unsupervised control over the compliance process; these 
 employees in turn abused their privileges, approving suspect arrangements with and payments 
 to consultants and gifts to Mexican government officials at Pemex, and concealing these 
 arrangments and payments from Key Energy. 

                          Internal Investigation and Remedial Efforts 

        21.    In or around January 2014, the staff of the Commission contacted Key Energy 
 with respect to potential FCPA violations by Key Energy.  In April 2014, Key Mexico 
 employees reported to Key Energy information they had received suggesting the recently 
 resigned country manager had promised bribes to one or more Pemex employees during his 
 employment with Key Mexico.  Upon learning of these allegations, Key Energy reported the 
 allegations to the staff of the Commission.  Thereafter, Key Energy undertook a broad internal 
 investigation and risk assessment of Key Energy’s international operations.  To the extent the 
 internal investigation identified additional issues of concern, Key Energy provided updates to 
 the Commission staff. 

        22.    In conjunction with its internal review and investigation, Key Energy promptly 
 and simultaneously undertook significant remedial measures including hiring a new Chief 
 Compliance Officer (“CCO”) who oversaw a renovation and enhancement of Key Energy’s 
 compliance program.  These steps included:  (1) the suspension of payments to all vendors and 
 third parties in Mexico shortly after the independent investigation/internal review began; (2) 
 the engagement of a manual review of over 600 vendors in Mexico for purposes of clearing 
 legitimate payments and assessing whether to move forward with those vendors in current and 
 future operations; (3) reviewing all vendors in use in Russia and Colombia and instituting an 
 enhanced due diligence procedure for all vendors globally; (4) establishing enhanced financial 

                                               6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 

 controls around the procedure-to-pay process in Mexico, Colombia, and Russia including 
 interim employee certifications requirements, revised vendor onboarding requirements, and 
 heightened payment approval requirements; (5) implementing a new business opportunities 
 protocol to help Key Energy legal better understand business risks including the role played by 
 agents, consultants or other vendors/business partners, so as to enable better assessment of 
 corruption-related risks in future business opportunities; (6) installing new controllers in the 
 Colombia and Mexico businesses and more effectively enforcing a solid line reporting 
 relationship to the U.S. Controller and ultimately the CFO; (7) in-person visits to each 
 international location by the CCO and others to, among other things, conduct training of all 
 international employees; and (8) developing and/or reviewing several company policies and 
 procedures including the Code of Business Conduct, the FCPA and Anti-Corruption policy, 
 the Travel and Expense policy, and the New Hire Screening Form; and (9) a coordinated 
 wind-down and exit of all markets outside of North America, and a commitment to exit 
 Mexico by the end of 2016. 

        23.    Throughout the process, Key Energy provided cooperation with the staff.  In 
 addition to reporting to the staff after discovering the FCPA allegations relating to Mexico, 
 Key Energy provided the staff with investigation updates and shared its translations of certain 
 important documents.  These actions assisted the staff in its investigation. 
  

                             Legal Standards and FCPA Violations 

        24.    Under  Section  21C(a)  of  the  Exchange  Act,  the  Commission  may  impose  a 
 cease-and-desist order upon any person who is violating, has violated, or is about to violate  any 
 provision of the Exchange Act or any regulation thereunder, and upon any other person  that is, 
 was, or would be a cause of the violation, due to an act or omission the person knew  or should 
 have known would contribute to such violation. 

        25.    Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires every issuer with a class of 
 securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act to make and keep books, 
 records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions 
 and dispositions of the assets of the issuer.  [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)] 

        26.    Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires such issuers to, among other 
 things,  devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide 
 reasonable assurances that (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management’s 
 general or specific authorization; (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary (I) to permit 
 preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting 
 principles or any other criteria applicable to such statements, and (II) to maintain 
 accountability for assets; (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with 
 management’s general or specific authorization; and (iv) the recorded accountability for 
 assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is 
 taken with respect to any differences. [15 U.S.C § 78m(b)(2)(B)] 

                                                                                                 

                                                                                                 

                                                7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 

        27.    As a result of the conduct described above, Key Energy violated Section 
 13(b)(2)(A) because its books and records did not, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly 
 reflect the purpose of the payments.  These improper payments were falsely recorded as 
 legitimate business expenses in the books and records of the subsidiary which were consolidated 
 into Key Energy’s books and records.  Accordingly, Key Energy violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of 
 the Exchange Act.  As described above, Key Energy also violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the 
 Exchange Act by failing to devise and maintain sufficient accounting controls to prevent and 
 detect these improper payments.  

        Commission Consideration of Key Energy’s Cooperation, Remedial Efforts and 
                                  Current Financial Condition 

        28.    In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered cooperation Key 
 Energy afforded to the Commission staff and the remedial acts undertaken by Key Energy.  In 
 addition, in determining the disgorgement amount and not to impose a penalty, the Commission 
 has considered Key Energy’s current financial condition and its ability to maintain necessary 
 cash reserves to fund its operations and meet its liabilities. 

                                          Undertakings 

         In the event Respondent is or becomes a debtor under Title 11 of the United States 
 Bankruptcy Code (“Bankruptcy Code”), whether voluntarily or involuntarily, Respondent agrees 
 to undertake all reasonable efforts to obtain authorization from the bankruptcy court having 
 jurisdiction over Respondent’s bankruptcy to pay the disgorgement amount ordered in 
 Paragraph IV. B. 

                                               IV. 

         In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the 
  sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 

         Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 

  A.            Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent shall cease and desist 
  from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) 
  and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(b)(2)(A)-(B)]. 

  B.            Respondent shall, within 14 days of entry of this Order, pay disgorgement of 
  $5,000,000.00 (the “Disgorgement Amount”) to the Securities and Exchange Commission for 
  transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 
  21F(g)(3).  If timely payment is not made within 14 days of when due additional interest shall 
  accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600.  If Respondent has become a debtor under the 
  Bankruptcy Code before the Disgorgement Amount is paid to the Commission, then, unless 
  otherwise ordered by the bankruptcy court having jurisdiction over Respondent’s bankruptcy 
  case, Respondent shall pay the Disgorgement Amount to the Commission  within 14 days of the 
  bankruptcy court’s approval of such payment.  If timely payment is not made within 14 days of 
  when due additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600, unless 11 U.S.C. 
  § 502(b)(2) applies.  Payment must be made in one of the following ways: 

                                               8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

 

   

           (1)    Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, 
                  which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon 
                  request; 

           (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                  through the SEC Web site at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; 
                  or 

           (3)    Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                  States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                  Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to: 

                  Enterprise Services Center 
                  Accounts Receivable Branch HQ 
                  Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 

                  6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                  Oklahoma City, OK 73169 

  Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying  Key 
  Energy Services, Inc. as the Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these 
  proceedings.  A copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Kara 
  Brockmeyer, Unit Chief, FCPA Unit, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange 
  Commission, 100 F St., NE, Washington, DC 20549. 

  C.            Respondent acknowledges that the Commission is not imposing a civil penalty 
  based upon its cooperation in a Commission investigation and related enforcement action.  If at 
  any time following the entry of the Order, the Division of Enforcement (“Division”) obtains 
  information indicating that Respondent knowingly provided materially false or misleading 
  information or materials to the Commission, or in a related proceeding, the Division may, at its 
  sole discretion and with prior notice to the Respondent, petition the Commission to reopen this 
  matter and seek an order directing that the Respondent pay a civil money penalty.  Respondent 
  may contest by way of defense in any resulting administrative proceeding brought by the 
  Commission, whether it knowingly provided materially false or misleading information, but 
  may not:  (1) contest the findings in the Order; or (2) assert any defense to liability or remedy, 
  including, but not limited to, any statute of limitations defense. 

        By the Commission. 

         

         

                                                           Brent J. Fields 
                                                           Secretary 

                                               9 
