---------------------Page 1---------------------

 

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 73294 / October 3, 2014 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3589 / October 3, 2014 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16186 
                                              
                                              ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                              ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
In the Matter of                              PURSUANT TO SECTION 4C OF THE 
                                              SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
      PETER A. JENSON, Chartered              AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
      Accountant                            COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE,
                                                                                      
Respondent.                                                             
 
 
 


                                           

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Peter A. Jenson, 
                                                                   1
Chartered Accountant (“Respondent” or “Jenson”) pursuant to Section 4C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
       2
Practice. 

                                                  
1
   Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that: 

          The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to 
          any person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any 
          way, if that person is found . . . (3) to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and 
          abetted the violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and 
          regulations thereunder. 

2
   Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 

          The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
          appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found…to have willfully 

 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 

 
                                                II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Respondent admits 
the facts set forth in Annex A attached hereto, acknowledges that his conduct violated federal 
securities laws, admits the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative 
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 4C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of 
the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below. 

                                               III. 

                                                                                  3
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that: 

A.     RESPONDENT 

       Peter A. Jenson, age 48, was a Managing Director and the Chief Operating Officer of 
Harbinger Capital Partners LLC (“Harbinger”) from April 2009 through July 2011. Jenson is an 
Australian citizen and resides in Winnetka, Illinois. Jenson was at one time licensed as a certified 
public accountant in Maryland, but his license expired in 2007. Jenson has active designation as 
a Chartered Accountant.  Jenson previously was a Member of the Financial Services Institute of 
Australia and previously held a Series 27 license. 

B.     FACTS 

1.      On August 13, 2013, Philip A. Falcone (“Falcone”) and Harbinger entered into a Final 
Consent Judgment to resolve the claims asserted against them in the civil action 12-CV-5028 
(PAC) (the “Action”) pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of 
New York.  As part of the Consent Judgment, Falcone and Harbinger admitted, among other 
things, that on October 14, 2009, without seeking or obtaining investor consent, in connection 
with the purchase, offer or sale of a security, Falcone improperly borrowed $113.2 million from 
the Harbinger Capital Partners Special Situations Fund, L.P. (“SSF”) to pay his state and federal 
taxes.  

2.      Jenson, Harbinger’s Chief Operating Officer, among other things, executed the loan 
agreement and other transaction documents on behalf of the SSF in connection with the loan. 

3.     The loan agreement provided that “[t]he Lender’s counsel shall have provided advice to 
the Lender to the effect that the making of the Loan … would not be inconsistent with the 

                                                                                                                                                             
           violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of any provision of the Federal 
           securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 

3
   The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent    ’s Offer of Settlement and are not 
   binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                                 2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 

Borrower’s fiduciary obligation to the Lender.”  Jenson, however, did not ensure that SSF as 
lender had separate counsel, and did not ensure that the loan was consistent with the Borrower’s 
fiduciary obligation to the Lender. 

4.      Jenson also failed to ensure that Falcone paid an “above market” interest rate on the loan, 
failed to timely disclose the loan to investors, and failed to take actions to cause the SSF to 
accelerate Falcone’s payment on the loan once investors in the SSF were permitted to begin 
redeeming their investments. 

5.      Jenson, with knowledge of Falcone’s and Harbinger’s violations in connection with the 
loan, substantially assisted these violations. 

6.     On October 1, 2014, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York 
entered a final consent judgment against Jenson enjoining him from acting or being an associated 
person of any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, 
transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating organization, as those terms are defined 
in Section 3 of the Exchange Act and Section 202 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 
(“Advisers Act”).  Jenson was further ordered to pay a civil penalty in the amount of $200,000 to 
the Commission.    

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission finds that Jenson willfully aided and abetted 
violations of Section 206 of the Advisers Act and further the Commission deems it appropriate 
pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Jenson’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     Jenson is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission 
as an accountant. 

       B.     After two years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

              1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
                      review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with 
                      the Commission. Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                      Respondent’s work in his practice before the Commission will be 
                      reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
                      for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he 
                      practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 

              2.     an independent accountant. Such an application must satisfy the 
                      Commission that: 

                                                3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 

                      (a)    Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
                             associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting 
                             Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley 
                             Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
                             is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection 
                             did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the 
                             respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
                             indicate that the respondent will not receive appropriate 
                             supervision; 

                      (c)    Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
                             has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions 
                             imposed by the Board (other than reinstatement by the 
                             Commission); and 

                      (d)    Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
                             Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an 
                             independent accountant, to comply with all requirements of the 
                             Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
                             requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring 
                             partner reviews and quality control standards. 

       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that he obtains a state CPA license and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy. However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits. The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 

        

       By the Commission. 
 
                                                    Brent J. Fields 
                                                    Secretary 

                              

                                               4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 

                                          ANNEX A 

       Peter A. Jenson (“Jenson”) admits to the facts set forth below and acknowledges that his 
conduct violated the federal securities laws: 

       1.     On August 13, 2013, Philip A. Falcone (“Falcone”) and Harbinger Capital 
Partners LLC (“Harbinger”) entered into a Final Consent Judgment to resolve the claims asserted 
against them in the civil action 12-CV-5028 (PAC) (the “Action”) pending in the United States 
District Court for the Southern District of New York. As part of the Consent Judgment, Falcone 
and Harbinger admitted, among other things, that on October 14, 2009, without seeking or 
obtaining investor consent, in connection with the purchase, offer or sale of a security, Falcone 
improperly borrowed $113.2 million from the Harbinger Capital Partners Special Situations 
Fund, L.P. (“SSF”) to pay his state and federal taxes. 

       2.     Jenson, Harbinger’s Chief Operating Officer, among other things, executed the 
loan agreement and other transaction documents on behalf of the SSF in connection with the 
loan. 

       3.     The loan agreement provided that “[t]he Lender’s counsel shall have provided 
advice to the Lender to the effect that the making of the Loan … would not be inconsistent with 
the Borrower’s fiduciary obligation to the Lender.” Jenson, however, did not ensure that SSF as 
lender had separate counsel, and did not ensure that the loan was consistent with the Borrower’s 
fiduciary obligation to the Lender. 

       4.     Jenson also failed to ensure that Falcone paid an “above market” interest rate on 
the loan, failed to timely disclose the loan to investors, and failed to take actions to cause the SSF 
to accelerate Falcone’s payment on the loan once investors in the SSF were permitted to begin 
redeeming their investments. 

       5.     Jenson, with knowledge of Falcone’s and Harbinger’s violations in connection 
with the loan, substantially assisted these violations. 

 

                                               5 
