---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                        Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 79256 / November 7, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3822 / November 7, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17670 
 
                                              ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE -AND-
In the Matter of                              DESIST PROCEEDINGS, PURSUANT TO 
                                              SECTION  21C OF THE SECURITIES 
      POWERSECURE                             EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING 
      INTERNATIONAL, INC. ,                   FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE -
                                              AND-DESIST ORDER   
Respondent.  
 
 
 
 
              
 
                                            I.  
       The Securities  and Exchange  Commission  (“Commission”)  deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted  pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange  Act of 1934 (“Exchange  Act”), against  PowerSecure International,  Inc. (“PowerSecure” 
or “Respondent”).    
                                              
                                            II. 
 
      In anticipation  of the institution  of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement  (the “Offer”)  which the Commission  has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission,  or to which  the Commission  is a party, and without  admitting  or denying  the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s  jurisdiction  over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted,  Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting  Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings  Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange  Act of 1934, Making 
Findings,  and Imposing  a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   

 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                 III. 
 
                                                                                  1
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission  finds   that: 
 
                                             Summary 
 
       1.      This is a case of financial  reporting, books and records, and internal  control 
violations  by PowerSecure related to its segment reporting.  From 2012 to 2014, PowerSecure failed 
to accurately identify  and report its segments  as required by Generally  Accepted Accounting 
Principles  (“GAAP”).  Segment disclosures help users of financial  statements better understand the 
public entity's performance, better assess its prospects for future net cash flows, and make more 
informed  judgments  about the public entity as a whole.   
        
       2.      In Accounting  Standards Codification  Topic 280, Segment Reporting (“ASC 280”), 
the method for determining  an entity’s operating segments  is referred to as the management 
approach.  The management  approach is based on the way management  organizes  its business 
components to make operating decisions and assess performance.  Consequently, the segments are 
evident from the structure of the company’s internal  organization.   By not properly applying  the 
management  approach articulated  in ASC 280, PowerSecure failed to disclose segment level 
financial  results at a sufficiently  disaggregated level  of the organization.    
        
       3.      After discussions with the Commission  staff, in its Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 2015, PowerSecure outlined  errors in prior period disclosures  and revised its segment 
reporting  disclosure to reflect information  for the years ended 2012 to 2014 on a basis consistent 
with its 2015 reportable segments.  In its 2015 filing,  PowerSecure also concluded that its disclosure 
controls and procedures for that three year period were not effective  due to a material  weakness in 
its internal  control over financial  reporting that it identified  in 2015 related to its misapplication  of 
GAAP related to segment reporting. 
 
                                            Respondent 
 
       4.      PowerSecure is a Delaware corporation headquartered in Wake Forest, North 
Carolina that provides energy management  and conservation solutions  to electric utilities  and their 
commercial,  institutional,  and industrial  customers.  During  the relevant period, PowerSecure’s 
securities were registered with the Commission  pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and 
were listed on public exchanges.  PowerSecure’s common stock traded on NASDAQ until  August 
2013 when PowerSecure moved its listing  to the New York Stock Exchange  (Ticker: POWR).  On 
May 9, 2016, Atlanta-based energy company Southern Company acquired PowerSecure and it 
became Southern Company’s wholly  owned subsidiary.  PowerSecure’s common  stock ceased to 
trade on the NYSE immediately  before the merger completion.   Southern Company trades on the 
NYSE under the ticker symbol SO.   

                                                 
1
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other 
person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
 
                                                    
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
                                Factual Findings and Conclusions 

          PowerSecure Disclosed its Segment Reporting was Incorrect from 2012-2014 
            
       5.      On March 14, 2016, PowerSecure filed its Form 10-K for the year ended December 
31, 2015.  In that filing,  PowerSecure outlined  prior period errors arising  from a misapplication  of 
GAAP and revised its segment reporting  disclosure to reflect information  for the years ended 2012 
to 2014 on a basis consistent with its 2015 reportable segments.   For that three year period, the 
segment disclosure  in PowerSecure’s Forms 10-K and Forms 10-Q had not been in compliance 
with  ASC 280.     
 
       ASC 280 Provides Authoritative Guidance on Segment Reporting Requirements 
        
       6.      ASC 280 is the authoritative  standard under U.S. GAAP for segment reporting.  As 
stated in ASC 280-10-10-1, the objective of providing  disclosures about segments  is to provide 
information  about the different  types of business activities  in which  a public entity  engages and the 
different  economic environments  in which it operates in order to help users of financial  statements 
better understand the public entity's performance, better assess its prospects for future net cash 
flows, and make more informed  judgments  about the public entity as a whole.   
        
       7.      Whether a particular  component of a public entity  is an operating segment  turns on 
the manner in which  management  makes operating decisions and assesses performance.  ASC 280-
10-05-3 refers to this as the “management  approach” and ASC 280-10-50-1 defines an operating 
segment as a component of a public entity that has all of the following  characteristics: 
        
           a.  It engages in business activities  from which it may earn revenues and incur 
               expenses. 
                
           b.  Its operating results are regularly  reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker 
               (“CODM”) to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and 
               assess its performance. 
                
           c.  Its discrete financial  information  is available. 
        
       8.      As explained in ASC 280, the term CODM refers not to a specific title within  the 
organization  but rather to the function  of allocating  resources to and assessing performance of the 
segments of a public entity.   Further, an operating segment  generally  has a segment manager, who is 
directly accountable to and maintains  regular contact with the CODM to discuss operating  activities, 
financial  results, forecasts, or plans for the segment.  In instances where the CODM uses more than 
one set of operating segment information,  other factors can be used to determine a public entity’s 
operating segments,  including  the nature of the business activities  of each component, the existence 
of management  responsible for them, and information  provided to the board of directors.    
        

                                                   
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

         9.       Per paragraphs 50-10 to 50-12 of ASC 280-10, a public entity  must disclose 
information  about each reportable segment.  A reportable segment consists of each separate 

operating segment  that it identifies  or that results from aggregating  two or more of those segments 
in accordance with specified aggregation  criteria.  However, an entity need not aggregate similar 

segments and it may present segments that fall below the quantitative  thresholds.   
          
                             PowerSecure’s Historical Segment Reporting 

          
         10.     PowerSecure disclosed two reportable segments from 2007 to 2012:  (1) Utility  & 
                                                        2
Energy Technologies  and (2) Energy Services.               The businesses in the Energy Services segment 
were divested in 2011, but      PowerSecure      continued to report      it   as a stand- alone segment  for an 
additional  y ear.  From Q1 2013 to Q1 2014, PowerSecure disclosed only one reportable business 

segment:   the Utility  & Energy  Technologies  segment.  Starting  in Q2 2014,              PowerSecure 
disclosed three    reportable segments that had previously  been reported on a combined basis within 

the Utility  & Energy Technologies  segment.  These three new segments had been described                      in 
PowerSecure’s Form 10-K disclosures, dating back to 2007, as primary  product/service  lines 
within  the Utility  & Energy Technologies  segment and were:  (1) Distributed  Generation, (2) 

Utility  Infrastructure,  and (3) Energy  Efficiency.   In 2015, PowerSecure began reporting a fourth 
segment:   Solar Energy. 

          
PowerSecure Should Have Reported More than One Segment from 2012 to First Quarter 2014 
          

         11.     From 2012 to the first quarter of 2014, PowerSecure incorrectly  presented its 
                                                         3
continuing  operations as one reportable segment            when it should have identified  and reported 

multiple  segments.     During  thi s period, PowerSecure erroneously          determined    it only had one 
operating segment    , because it incorrectly  concluded     :  (1) that   there was no discrete financial 
information  available  below the     Utility  & Energy Technologies         level    and (2) that   the   CO  DM did 

not regularly  review operating results below this level to assess performance and make resource 
allocations.    

 
         12.      PowerSecure misapplied ASC 280 in claiming  the discrete financial  information 
criterion was not met since certain operating expenses were not allocated amongst its business units 

with precision below gross profit.  However, to meet this criterion, a business component need only 
have a measure of profit or loss available and gross profit is sufficient  for this purpose.  Additionally, 

ASC 280 contains no provisions regarding the level of precision at which costs are allocated within  a 
company.   
          

                                                 
2
  The Utility and Energy Technologies segment was referred to as PowerSecure in 2007  and Energy & Smart Grid 
Solutions from 2008  to 2010.   The Energy Services segment was referred to as Natural Gas Measurement Services 
(“Southern Flow”) in 2007  and as Oil and Gas Services in 2012. 
 
3
  All of PowerSecure’s continuing operations from 2012  forward were in its Utility and Energy Technologies 
business.  The Oil and Gas Services segment only represented residual activity in connection with PowerSecure’s 
2011  disposal of its WaterSecure operations.   
                                                             

 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

        13.     PowerSecure also misapplied  ASC 280 by concluding  that its CODM – who was 
determined  to be the Chief  Executive  Officer (“CEO”) - did not regularly  review operating results 
below the consolidated  level  to make decisions  about resource allocations  and to assess 
performance.  This was inconsistent  with  the way in which the CEO regularly  received, reviewed, 
and reported on the results of the business  and how the company was structured.  On a monthly 
basis, the CEO received financial  results that reflected a measure of profitability  on a more 
disaggregated  level  than the consolidated entity.   Further, on a quarterly  basis, the CEO met with 
                           4
each business unit leader    to discuss operational  issues, sales forecasts, and financial  performance.   
In 2012 and 2013, some of the business unit leaders had      business  unit   level budgets and forecasts 
and received ince ntive  compensation  based   ,   at least in part,   upon the results of their business unit.  
Moreover,   each quarter,  the board of directors received discrete financial  information  below the 
consolidated level, which  was presented by the Chief Financial  Officer (“CFO”), along with 
commentary  provided by the CEO. 
         
Division of Corporation Finance Comments on PowerSecure’s Segment Reporting during 2013 
                 and PowerSecure Incurs an Unexpected First Quarter 2014 Loss 
                 
        14.     During  the 2012 Form 10-K review process, the Commission’s  Division  of  
Corporation Finance (“Corporation Finance”)  questioned  PowerSecure’s segment reporting 
disclosures.   In response to Corporation Finance’s  comments,  PowerSecure maintained  it had been 
correct in reporting  only one segment  in 2012.  PowerSecure focused its responses as to whether its 
three primary  product/service lines  (Distributed  Generation,  Utility  Infrastructure,  and Energy 
Efficiency)  should be considered operating segments,  without  addressing whether any other 
business components  met the definition  of an operating segment under GAAP.   
           
        15.     On May 7, 2014, PowerSecure unexpectedly  reported a first quarter 2014 loss of  
$(4.3) million  or $(0.19) per share loss compared to analyst estimates of earnings  of $0.02 per 
share.  The Company disclosed its gross profit margin  declined from 30.6% in the first quarter 
2013 to 20.9% in first quarter 2014 primarily  due to “inefficiencies  in the Utility  Services group,” 
which was a business unit within  the Utility  Infrastructure  product/service line.    
 
        16.     Because PowerSecure only reported one segment in 2012 through  the first quarter 
of 2014, investors  did not have the benefit of reviewing  profitability  metrics for its various 
business units and service lines.   That information  was available  internally  to PowerSecure’s 
management  and to its board of directors.   
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       

                                                 
4
 While PowerSecure did not have a leader, other than the CEO,  for each of what it characterized as its three primary 
product/service lines in 2012-2014,  the Company did have leaders of several business units within those 
product/service lines. 
                                                       
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

    PowerSecure Changes its Segment Reporting in the Second Quarter of 2014 but Fails to 
                  Appropriately Identify its Operating and Reportable Segments 
 
       17.    In its second quarter 2014 Form 10-Q, issued on August  6, 2014, PowerSecure 
changed its segment reporting  disclosure  to include  three segments:  (1) Distributed  Generation,  (2) 
Utility  Infrastructure,  and (3) Energy  Efficiency.   In revising  its reporting segments,  PowerSecure 
indicated in its filing  that its CODM had begun reviewing  results and allocating  resources among 
these three strategic business groupings  and had started budgeting  using  these business segments.   
There did not, however, appear to be any substantive  changes in the reports regularly  received and 
reviewed by PowerSecure’s CEO.  Similarily,  there was no substantive  change to the information 
provided to business unit leaders or PowerSecure’s board of directors.   
 
       18.     Even though  PowerSecure changed its segment  reporting  disclosure  in the second 
quarter of 2014 to disclose three operating  segments,  its  disclosure still  was not in accordance with 
GAAP.  PowerSecure failed to contemporaneously  identify  which  of its business units met the ASC 
280 definition  of an operating segment, which should have resulted in the identification  of seven - 
rather than three - operating segments in 2014:  Distributed  Generation,  Utility  Services, 
PowerServices/Utility  Engineering,  Encari, Energy Efficiency  Services, LED Lighting,  and Solar.  
 
       19.    ASC 280 permits operating segments  to be aggregated into a single  reportable 
segment if aggregation  is consistent with  the objective and basic principles  of the standard, if the 
segments have similar  economic characteristics,  and if the segments are similar  in terms of the 
nature of their  products/services,  production process, customer type, distribution  methods, and 
regulatory  environment.   Even though PowerSecure did not contemporaneously  conclude upon its 
ability  to aggregate segments in 2014, in its revised segment presentation  in the 2015 Form 10-K, it 
concluded that certain of its operating segments met the criteria for aggregation  under ASC 280, 
resulting  in four reportable segments:   Distributed  Generation,  Utility  Infrastructure,  Energy 
Efficiency,  and Solar.   
        
       20.    As a result of PowerSecure’s misapplication  of ASC 280 in the second quarter of 
2014, its segment disclosure  was not in accordance with GAAP.   
 
       Failure to Properly Identify Reporting Units for Purposes of Goodwill Impairment Testing 
        
       21.     The failure  to properly identify  its operating segments was a contributing  factor that 
led PowerSecure to erroneously identify  fewer reporting units for purposes of testing for goodwill 
impairment  than required in ASC Topic 350, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other (“ASC 350”).  Per 
ASC 350-20-35-34, a component of an operating segment is a reporting unit if the component 
constitutes a business for which discrete financial  information  is available,  and segment 
management  regularly  reviews the operating results of that component.  An operating segment shall 
be deemed to be a reporting unit if all of its components are similar,  if none of its components is a 
reporting unit, or if it comprises only a single  component.   
 

                                                   
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

       22.     Under GAAP, at a minimum,  each of PowerSecure’s operating segments should 
have been considered a reporting unit.  Contrary to GAAP, PowerSecure failed to identify  the 
proper reporting units in 2012 through 2014.  As a result, goodwill  impairment  was tested at a 
higher level in the organization  than required by ASC 350, which  could have resulted in 
PowerSecure’s failure  to recognize  a goodwill  impairment  loss. 
        
                         PowerSecure’s Insufficient Internal Accounting Controls  
        
       23.    In each of PowerSecure’s Forms 10-K for the years ended December 31, 2012 
through  2014, PowerSecure disclosed management’s  conclusion  that it had both effective 
disclosure controls and procedures and effective  internal  control over financial  reporting.   As 
subsequently  disclosed in PowerSecure’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, 
management  reassessed its disclosure controls and procedures for that three year period and 
concluded they were not effective  due to a material  weakness in its internal  control over financial 
reporting  that it identified  in 2015 related to its misapplication  of GAAP related to segment 
reporting.   A material weakness is a deficiency,  or a combination  of deficiencies,  in internal  control 
over financial  reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility  that a material  misstatement  of 
the company’s annual or interim  financial  statements will  not be prevented or detected on a timely 
basis.  PowerSecure concluded that it remediated its material  weakness in 2015. 
        
       24.    During  2012, 2013, and 2014, PowerSecure failed to properly interpret and apply 
GAAP requirements  in ASC 280 and paragraphs 35-33 through 35-46 of ASC 350-20.  
PowerSecure lacked sufficient  internal  accounting  controls to adequately monitor  its compliance 
with  the segment reporting requirements  under GAAP.  PowerSecure did not have a segment 
reporting policy, and there was limited  documentation  of its application  of the segment reporting 
requirements.   In Q2 2014, when PowerSecure revised its segment disclosure  to include  the results 
of three segments, a memo was drafted to document the change in segment reporting.  However, 
the analysis  and the memo failed  to adequately assess the segment reporting  requirements  and also 
lacked clarity  with regard to specific  conclusions  reached in the application  of ASC 280.  
Additionally,  PowerSecure failed to properly apply the provisions  of ASC 350 that dealt with the 
identification  of reporting  units for purposes of goodwill  impairment  testing.  In PowerSecure’s 
documentation  of its annual  goodwill  impairment  testing, it did not sufficiently  address and 
document its identification  of reporting units. 
        
                                             Violations  
 
       25.    As a result of the conduct described above, PowerSecure violated  Section 13(a) of 
the Exchange  Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13, and 12b-20 thereunder,  which  require  every issuer  of 
a security  registered  pursuant  to Section 12 of the Exchange  Act file  with the Commission 
information,  documents,  and annual  and quarterly  reports as the Commission  may require,  and 
mandate that periodic  reports contain  such further  material  information  as may be necessary to 
make the required  statements  not misleading. 
        
        
        
                                                   
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

       26.    As a result of the conduct described above, PowerSecure violated   
Section13(b)(2)(A)  of the Exchange  Act, which  requires reporting  companies  to make and keep 
books, records, and accounts which,  in reasonable  detail, accurately  and fairly  reflect their 
transactions  and dispositions  of their  assets. 
        
       27.    As a result of the conduct described above, PowerSecure violated  Section 
13(b)(2)(B)  of the Exchange  Act which  requires all reporting  companies  to devise and maintain  a 
system of internal  accounting  controls  sufficient  to provide reasonable  assurances that 
transactions  are recorded as necessary  to permit  preparation  of financial  statements  in accordance 
with generally  accepted accounting  principles. 

                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing,  the Commission  deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent PowerSecure’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly,  it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.      Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent PowerSecure cease and 
desist from committing  or causing any violations  and any future violations  of Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange  Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13, and 12b-20 thereunder. 
 
       B.      Respondent shall, within  30 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil  money 
penalty in the amount of $470,000 to the Securities  and Exchange  Commission  for transfer to the 
general  fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange  Act Section 21F(g)(3). If timely 
payment is not made, additional  interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717.   
 
Payment must be made in one of the following  ways:   
 
               (1)     Respondent may transmit  payment electronically  to the Commission,  which 
                       will  provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire  instructions  upon request;  
                
               (2)     Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                       through  the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm;  or  
                
               (3)     Respondent may pay by certified  check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                       States postal money order, made payable to the Securities  and Exchange 
                       Commission  and hand-delivered  or mailed  to:  
 
               Enterprise Services Center 
               Accounts Receivable  Branch 
               HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
               6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
               Oklahoma City, OK 73169 

                                                   
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

 
Payments   by   check   or   money   order   must   be   accompanied   by   a   cover   letter   identifying 
PowerSecure  as  a  Respondent  in  these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a 
copy  of  the  cover  letter  and  check  or  money order must be sent to  Stephanie Avakian,  Deputy 
Director,  Division   of   Enforcement,   Securities   and   Exchange   Commission,   100   F   St.,  NE, 
Washington,  DC 20549. 
 
       C.      Amounts  ordered to be paid as civil  money penalties  pursuant to this Order shall be 
treated as penalties  paid to the government  for all purposes, including  all tax purposes.  To 
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil  penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor 
Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled  to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any 
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil 
penalty in this action ("Penalty  Offset").   If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a 
Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within  30 days after entry of a final  order granting 
the Penalty Offset, notify  the Commission's  counsel in this action and pay the amount of the 
Penalty Offset to the Securities  and Exchange  Commission.   Such a payment shall not be deemed 
an additional  civil  penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil  penalty 
imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action"  means a 
private damages action brought against  Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based 
on substantially  the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted  by the Commission  in this 
proceeding. 
 
 
               By the Commission. 
 
 
                                                       Brent J. Fields 
                                                       Secretary 

                                                    
 
