---------------------Page 1---------------------

                               UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                            Before the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 76734 / December 22, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3729 / December 22, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17018 
 
                                                    ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                    ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
In the Matter of                                    PURSUANT TO SECTION 4C OF THE 
                                                    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
       SPICER JEFFRIES LLP,                         AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                    COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
Respondent.                                       
                                                                               
                                                      
                                                 I. 
 
        The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Spicer Jeffries LLP (“Spicer 
                                                  1
Jeffries” or “Respondent”) pursuant to Section 4C  of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
                                                                                2
(“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  
                                                  
                               

                                                 
1
       Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
               The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any 
               person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that 
               person is found . . . (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others . . . 
               (2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to have engaged in unethical or improper 
               professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the 
               violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
        
2
       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
               The  Commission may  censure a person or deny, temporarily or permanently, the 
               privilege of appearing or practicing before it in any way to any person who is found . . . 
               to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct. 
        
                                                  
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                   II. 
 
        In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 4C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and 
Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   
                                                     
                                                   III. 
 
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
A.      SUMMARY 
  
        These proceedings arise out of Spicer Jeffries’ failure to retain audit documentation, as 
required by Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (“GAAS”).  Spicer Jeffries was unable to locate 
audit documentation for six (6) of its audit engagements for the years 2009 through 2013.  Spicer 
Jeffries did not have written policies and procedures outlining the practices followed for retention of 
audit documentation.  The affected clients are registered broker-dealers who were required by 
                                                                                       3
Section 17(e)(1)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules 17a-5(d)(1)(i) and 17a-5(g)(1)         thereunder  to 
file annual financial reports that are audited by an independent public accountant pursuant to 
GAAS.  GAAS required that audit documentation for such annual audits be retained for a period of 
                                                4
at least five years from the report release date.  Spicer Jeffries’ failure to retain audit documentation 

                                                 
3
        The provisions of Exchange Act Rule 17a-5 referred to herein are those in effect during, and 
applicable to, the relevant conduct.  On July 30, 2013, the Commission adopted certain amendments to 
Rule 17a-5.  See Broker-Dealer Reports, SEC Exchange Act Release No. 34-70073 (July 30, 2013), 78 
Fed. Reg. 51910 (Aug. 21, 2013).  Among other things, the amendments to Rule 17a-5 require that audits 
of brokers and dealers be performed in accordance with Public Company Accounting Oversight Board 
standards, effective for audits of fiscal years ending on or after June 1, 2014.   
 
        Prior to the July 30, 2013 amendments, Rule 17a-5 required that audits of brokers or dealers be 
performed in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America, 
established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“AICPA”).  See SEC Exchange 
Act Release No. 34-62991 (Sept. 24, 2010), 75 Fed. Reg. 60616 (Oct. 1, 2010) (clarifying that references 
in Commission rules and staff guidance and in the federal securities laws to GAAS or to specific 
standards under GAAS, as they relate to non-issuer brokers or dealers, should continue to be understood 
to mean auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America, established by the 
AICPA). 
         
4
        See AU-C Section 230.17, Audit Documentation, (effective for audits of financial statements for 
periods ending on or after December 15, 2012); AU Section 339.32, Audit Documentation (effective for 
                                                    2 
                                                     
---------------------Page 3---------------------

in accordance with GAAS for six (6) audits for the years 2009 through 2013 of registered broker-
dealers constitutes improper professional conduct. 
 
B.     RESPONDENT 
 
       Spicer Jeffries LLP is an accounting and auditing firm registered with the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”).  Spicer Jeffries is based in Denver, Colorado 
and recently opened offices in Florida and the Cayman Islands.  During fiscal years 2009 through 
2013 (the “Relevant Period”), Spicer Jeffries had two partners and approximately twenty-nine 
professional staff. 
 
C.     FACTS 
                                                   
       1.      Background 
            
       a.      During the Relevant Period, Spicer Jeffries issued approximately 350 audit reports 
for broker-dealers registered with the Commission.  For the year ended 2013, Spicer Jeffries 
completed 74 audits of broker-dealers. 
        
       b.      During the Relevant Period, broker-dealers were required to annually file with the 
Commission financial reports audited by an independent public accountant in accordance with 
GAAS.  During the Relevant Period, GAAS required that the independent public accountant retain 
audit documentation for a period of at least five years from the report release date. 
        
       c.      Applicable GAAS standards state that an auditor “should adopt reasonable 
procedures to retain and access audit documentation for a period of time sufficient to meet the 
needs of his or her practice and to satisfy any applicable legal or regulatory requirements for 
                  5
records retention.”  
        
       d.      Spicer Jeffries was managed by two partners, a majority partner and a minority 
partner.  The majority partner relied solely on the minority partner to ensure compliance with 
professional standards and other requirements related to audit documentation retention.  The 
minority partner was responsible for overseeing the policies and procedures related to retention of 
audit documentation, but the policies, procedures, and oversight were inadequate to reasonably 
assure compliance with GAAS. 
        
       e.      Spicer Jeffries’ written policy regarding audit documentation retention stated that 
audit documentation was to be retained for a period of six years after the balance sheet date.  Spicer 

                                                                                                                                                             
audits of financial statements for periods ending on or after December 15, 2006 and prior to December 
15, 2012).  PCAOB standards require a seven-year retention period.  See PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 
3, Audit Documentation, paragraph 14. 
 
5
       See AU Section 339.32 Audit Documentation; AU-C Section 230, Appendix A, 
paragraph .A27, Audit Documentation. 
                                                 3 
                                                   
---------------------Page 4---------------------

Jeffries’ administrative staff followed certain practices to retain audit documentation for this 
period.  The firm did not, however, have written procedures outlining these practices.  The firm’s 
management did not regularly review administrative staff’s practices to ensure the administrative 
staff reasonably followed those practices. 
         
        f.      Spicer Jeffries maintained on-site file storage for audit documentation that was less 
than one year old.  Spicer Jeffries allowed all personnel to access the on-site file storage.  The firm 
maintained a system to record the names and dates of individuals who removed audit 
documentation and the names and dates such documentation was returned to the on-site file 
storage.  Although the system was in place, the records were not regularly verified, and certain 
records were incomplete. 
         
        g.      Spicer Jeffries generally archived audit documentation older than one year at an off-
site facility.  During the Relevant Period, Spicer Jeffries maintained a master archive list to 
document the location of archived audit documentation.  The master archive list contained 
inaccuracies during the Relevant Period. 
         
        h.      At the end of 2013, the minority partner retired from Spicer Jeffries, and the 
administrative staff continued to carry out the existing audit documentation retention practices.  
From January 1, 2014 until January 1, 2015, no other partner assumed responsibility of audit 
documentation retention practices, although the firm’s partners were available to the administrative 
staff if they had questions. 
         
                              Failure to Retain Audit Documentation 
         
        i.      In response to requests for documents issued by the Commission, Spicer Jeffries 
was unable to locate audit documentation for six audit engagements of registered broker-dealers 
                            6
during the Relevant Period.   
 
                                          Remedial Efforts 
 
        j.      In 2015, a new partner took over direct responsibility for audit documentation 
retention.  Spicer Jeffries took steps to review and analyze its audit documentation retention 
practices and developed new written policies and procedures regarding audit documentation 
retention.  Spicer Jeffries will hire an independent consultant at its own expense to evaluate its 
audit documentation retention policies and procedures. 
 
                                 

                                                 
6
        Spicer    Jeffries acknowledged during the investigation that out of 113 audit files for which 
information was requested, it failed to retain documentation for six of those audit engagements.       
                                                   4 
                                                     
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       2.      Violations 
 
       a.      Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice allow the Commission to censure a person if it finds that such person has engaged in 
“improper professional conduct.”  Exchange Act § 4C(a)(2); Rule 102(e)(1)(ii).  Section 4C and 
Rule 102(e) define improper professional conduct, in part, as “[r]epeated instances of unreasonable 
conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of 
competence to practice before the Commission.”  Exchange Act § 4C(b)(2)(B); Rule 
102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2).  As a result of the conduct described above, Spicer Jeffries engaged in 
repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable professional 
standards that indicate a lack of competence to practice before the Commission. 

       3.      Findings 

       a.      Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Spicer Jeffries engaged in 
improper professional conduct pursuant to Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 
102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
       4.      Remedial Efforts 
 
       In determining whether to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts 
undertaken by Respondent. 
 
                                          Undertakings 
 
       Respondent undertakes to: 
 
       1.      Retain, within sixty (60) days after the entry of this Order, at its own expense, an 
independent consultant (“Independent Consultant”) not unacceptable to the staff of the 
Commission, to review and evaluate whether Spicer Jeffries’ audit documentation retention 
policies and procedures are designed and implemented in a manner reasonably sufficient under 
PCAOB standards and applicable Commission rules to retain all audit documentation in 
accordance with applicable professional standards.  Spicer Jeffries shall cooperate fully with the 
Independent Consultant and shall provide the Independent Consultant with access to its own files, 
books, records, and personnel as reasonably requested for the review; 
        
       2.      Require that the Independent Consultant issue a report, within sixty (60) days of 
being retained, summarizing the review and recommending additional or revised audit 
documentation retention policies and procedures necessary to provide reasonable assurance of 
compliance with PCAOB standards and applicable Commission rules pertaining to the retention of 
audit documentation. 
        
       3.      Adopt all recommendations in the report of the Independent Consultant; provided, 
however, that within thirty (30) days after the Independent Consultant serves that report, Spicer 
Jeffries shall in writing advise the Independent Consultant and the Commission of any 

                                                5 
                                                  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

recommendations that it considers to be unnecessary, unduly burdensome, impractical, or costly.  
With respect to any recommendation that Spicer Jeffries considers unnecessary, unduly 
burdensome, impractical or costly, Spicer Jeffries need not adopt that recommendation at that time 
but shall propose in writing an alternative policy, procedure, or system designed to achieve the 
same objective or purpose.  As to any recommendation on which Spicer Jeffries and the 
Independent Consultant do not agree, such parties shall attempt in good faith to reach an agreement 
within thirty (30) days after Spicer Jeffries serves the written advice.  In the event Spicer Jeffries 
and the Independent Consultant are unable to agree on an alternative proposal, Spicer Jeffries will 
abide by the determinations of the Independent Consultant; 

       4.     Require the Independent Consultant to enter into an agreement that provides that 
for the period of engagement and for a period of two years from completion of the engagement, 
the Independent Consultant shall not enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, 
auditing or other professional relationship with Spicer Jeffries, or any of its present or former 
affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity. The agreement will 
also provide that the Independent Consultant will require that any firm with which he/she is 
affiliated or of which he/she is a member, and any person engaged to assist the Independent 
Consultant in performance of his/her duties under this Order shall not, without prior written 
consent of the Salt Lake Regional Office, enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, 
auditing or other professional relationship with Spicer Jeffries, or any of its present or former 
affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such for the period 
of the engagement and for a period of two years after the engagement.  
               
       5.     Certify, in writing, compliance with the undertakings set forth above.  The 
certification shall identify the undertakings, provide written evidence of compliance in the form 
of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient to demonstrate compliance.  The 
Commission staff may make reasonable requests for further evidence of compliance, and 
Respondent agrees to provide such evidence.  The certification and supporting material shall be 
submitted to Richard R. Best, Regional Director, Division of Enforcement, U.S. Securities and 
Exchange Commission, 351 So. West Temple, Suite 6.100, Salt Lake City, UT 84101 with a 
copy to the office of Chief Counsel of the Enforcement Division, 100 F Street, N.E., 
Washington, DC 20549-6553, no later than sixty (60) days from the date of the completion of the 
undertakings. 
        
       6.     In determining whether to accept the Offer, the Commission has considered these 
undertakings. 
 
                               

                                                6 
                                                  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Spicer Jeffries’ Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Respondent is censured. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                      Brent J. Fields 
                                                      Secretary 
 

                                                 7 
                                                   
