---------------------Page 1---------------------

                        UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                   Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 72198 / May 20, 2014 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3554 / May 20, 2014 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-15876 
 
                                             ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
In the Matter of                            ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-
                                            AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS 
      JAMES T. ADAMS, CPA,                  PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 4C AND 
                                            21C OF THE SECURITIES 
Respondent.                                 EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND 
                                             RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                             COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                            PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, 
                                            AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL 
                                            SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-AND-
                                            DESIST ORDER  
                                                
 
                                        I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate 
that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted 
against James T. Adams, CPA (“Respondent” or “Adams”), pursuant to Sections  
4C(a)(2)1
         and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 
102(e)(1)(ii)2
             of the Commission’s Rules of Practic e.  

                                                 
1
  Section 4C (a)(2) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the 
privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . 
to have engaged in unethical or improper profes sional conduct. 
 
2
  Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in  relevant part, that: 
 
The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper 
professional conduct. 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                             
                                           II. 
                                             
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted 
an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  
Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on 
behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a  party , and without admitting 
or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and 
the subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the 
entry of this Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant 
to Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                          III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds3
                                                                                that: 
 
       A.     SUMMARY  
 
       This matter involves issues of auditor independence and improper professional 
conduct arising from the repeated acceptance of tens of thousands of dollars in casino 
markers by James T. Adams, CPA    in 2009 from a casino gaming issuer  (“Casino Gaming 
Issuer”).  At the time, Adams was the Chief Risk Officer of Deloitte LLP and a partner of 
Deloitte & Touche LLP (“D&T”).  The Casino Gamin     g Issuer was an attest client of 
D&T, and from January 20, 2009 until January 13, 2010, Adams served as the advisory 
partner on D&T’s audit engagements for that issuer .  During the audit and professional 
engagement period for D&T’s audit of the Casino Gami   ng Issuer’s financial statements 
for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, Adams sought and received casino markers 
from a casino of the Casino Gaming Issuer.  The transactions by which Adams received 
the casino markers were prohibited “loans” under Rule 2-01(c)(1)(ii) of Regulation S-X.  
These loans impaired D&T’s indep endence with regard to its audit client.  Through his 
actions, Adams caused D&T to violat  e Rule 2 -02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X and caused the 
Casino Gaming Issuer to violate Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act  and Rule 13a -1 
promulgated thereunder.   
 
       B.     RESPONDENT 
 
       Adams was the Chief Risk Officer of Deloitte LLP (“Deloitte”) from September 
2005 through May 29, 2010.  Additionally, Adams was a p   artner of D&T, a Deloitte 
subsidiary, from June 1985 through May 29, 2010.  Adams    worked for Deloitte  and/or 
D&T and their predecessor entities from June 1974 until he retired in May 2010.  Adams, 
                                                 
3
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.                                                    
        
 

                                           2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

age 62, resides in California.  He obtained a license as a Certified Public Accountant 
(“CPA”) in Georgia in November 1974 and in California in September 2002.  At the time 
of his actions discussed herein, Adams was a licensed CPA in the States of Georgia and 
California.  His licenses are currently inactive.  
 
       C.     RELEVANT ENTITIES 
 
       1.     Deloitte is a Delaware limited liability partnership.  It is the U.S. member 
firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a U.K. private company limited by guarantee.  
Deloitte has four main subsidiaries – D&T, Deloitte Tax LLP, Deloitte Consulting LLP, 
and Deloitte Financial Advisory Services LLP – that provide audit and enterprise risk 
services, tax, consulting, and financial advisory services, respectively.  Deloitte does not 
provide client services; services are performed by the subsidiaries. 
 
       2.     D&T is a Delaware limited liability partnership.  It is a subsidiary of 
Deloitte that provides audit and other attest services and enterprise risk services to clients.  
D&T is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”).  At 
all relevant times, D&T provided auditing and other services to a variety of casino 
entertainment and hospitality companies, including companies whose securities are 
registered with the Commission and trade on the U.S. markets.   
        
       3.     Casino Gaming Issuer is incorporated in Delaware and is a casino 
entertainment and hospitality provider.  At all times relevant to these proceedings, Casino 
Gaming Issuer was an attest client of D&T.  At the time of Adams’ conduct described 
herein, the common stock of the Casino Gaming Issuer was registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act, and the issuer filed periodic 
reports with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 of the Exchange Act.   
        
       D.     FACTS  
 
       1.      From January 20, 2009 until January 13, 2010, Adams served as the 
advisory partner on D&T’s attest engagements of Casino Gaming Issuer.   He worked on 
the firm’s audits of  the issuer’s financial statements for its fiscal years ended December 31, 
2008 and December 31, 2009.  An advisory partner is a senior partner who is part of the 
audit engagement team.  As the advisory partner on the Casino Gaming Issuer audit 
engagements, Adams primarily served as a liaison between D&T and the issuer’s 
management and audit committee. 
 
       2.     Adams had regular contact with Casino Gaming Issuer’s management and 
the audit committee of its board of directors.  Adams was invited to, and attended, certain 
of the issuer’s audit committee meetings and participated in audit committee conference 
calls and the review of audit committee materials.   
 
       3.     While Adams was serving as the advisory partner on D&T’s 2009 C   asino 
Gaming Issuer audit, he sought and received casino markers from a casino operated by the 
issuer.  He visited the casino at least five times during this period and signed a number of 

                                           3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

casino “markers.”  A casino marker is an instrument utilized by a casino customer to 
receive gaming chips drawn against the customer’s line of credit at the casino.  Adams  had 
opened a line of credit with the casino on June 9, 2004 and increased that line of credit 
from $ 100,000 to $110,000 on December 16, 2009. 
 
       4.     Adams drew down his line of credit by using markers at the Casino 
Gaming Issuer’s casino while he was the advisory partner for D&T’s Ca sino Gaming 
Issuer 2009 audit engagement.  Specifically, on July 29, 2009, Adams drew markers, 
$85,000 of which remained outstanding for a period of 43 days.  On September 15, 2009, 
he drew markers, $3,000 of which remained outstanding for a period of 13 days and 
$70,000 of which remained outstanding for a period of 27 days.  On October 13, 2009, 
Adams drew markers, $110,000 of which remained outstanding for a period of 38 days.  
On December 8, 2009, he drew markers, $100,000 of which remained outstanding for 
seven days.  On December 16, 2009, Adams drew markers, $110,000 of w    hich remained 
outstanding.   
        
       5.     On January 13, 2010, D&T removed Adams from the Casino Gaming 
Issuer 2009 audit engageme nt, for reasons that were not based on his use of casino 
markers.  Adams subsequently defaulted on the $110,000 of outstanding  markers that he 
drew on December 16, 2009. 
        
       6.     Adams concealed from D&T the fact that he had drawn casino markers 
from Casino Gaming Issuer and in fact lied to a D&T partner when he was asked 
generally if he had casino markers from attest clients of the firm.  Accordingly, at the 
time that Adams retired, D&T was not aware of his casino markers from Casino Gaming 
Issuer.   
 
       7.     On March 9, 2010, Casino Gaming Issuer filed its annual Report on Form 
10-K for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2009.  The annual report included a D&T 
audit report that stated that its audit of the financial statements of Casino Gaming Issuer 
had been conducted in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Because of Adams’ 
conduct described above , that statement was incorrect.  
 
       8.     Adams retired from D&T on May     29, 2010. 
 
       E.     LEGAL ANALYSIS 
 
                                   Basic Principles 

       1.     “Public faith in the reliability of a corporation’s financial statements 
depends upon the public perception of the outside auditor as an independent 
professional.”  SEC v. Arthur Young , 465 U.S. 805, 819 n.15 (1984).   
 
       2.     The Commission has stated that it “will not recognize an accountant as 
independent, with respect to an audit client, if the accountant is not, or a reasonable 
investor with knowledge of all relevant facts and circumstances would conclude that the 

                                           4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

accountant is not, capable of exercising objective and impartial judgment on all issues 
encompassed within the accountant’s engagement.”  Rule 2 -01(b) of Regulation S-X.  
 
       3.     “In considering this standard, the Commission looks in the first instance to 
whether a relationship or the provision of a service:  creates a mutual or conflicting 
interest between the accountant and the audit client . . . .”  Preliminary Note to Rule 2-01 
of Regulation S-X, ¶ 2.   
        
       4.     Rule 2-01(c) of Regulation S -X sets forth a “non-exclusive specification 
of circumstances inconsistent with” the general standard.  Among the listed 
circumstances is “[a]ny loan . . . to or from an audit client.”  Rule 2-01(c)(1)(ii)(A) of 
Regulation S-X.   
        
                                       Violations 
                                             
       5.     As a result of the conduct described above, Adams caused D&T to violate 
Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X, which requires that an accountant’s report state 
whether the audit was conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards.  Exch ange Act Release No. 49708 provides that, for financial statements dated 
after May 24, 2004, the Rule’s reference to “generally accepted auditing standards” 
means the standards of the PCAOB    and the applicable Commission regulations , both of  
which require an auditor to be independent of its client.  Adams knew or should have 
known that his conduct would cause the firm to violate the Rule.   
        
       6.     As a result of the conduct described above, Adams caused Casino Gaming 
Issuer to violate Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 promulgated 
thereunder, which require that financial statements included in annual reports filed with 
the Commission be audited by an independent accountant.  Adams knew or should have 
known that his conduct would cause the issuer to violate those provisions.   
        
       7.     As a result of the conduct described above, Adams engaged in improper 
professional conduct, as defined by Exchange Act 4C(a)(2) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
    
       F.     FINDINGS  
                                             
       Based on the conduct described above, Adams caused a violation of   Rule 2 -
02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X by D&T, caused violations of Exchange Act Section    13(a) 
and Exchange Act Rule 13a-1 by Casino Gaming Issuer, and engaged in improper 
professional conduct within the meaning of Exchange Act Section 4C  (a)(2) and Rule 
102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
    
                                          IV. 
        
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the 
sanctions agreed to in Respondent Adams’ Offer.   

                                           5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that :   
 
       A.     Adams shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
any future violations of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X and Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 promulgated thereunder.   
        
       B.     Adams is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant.   
        
       C.     After two years from the date of this Order, Respondent may request 
that the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application 
(attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before 
the Commission as: 
      
              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation 
                      or review, of any public company’s financial statements that are 
                      filed with the Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the 
                      Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
                      Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit 
                      committee of the public company for which he works or in some 
                      other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
                      Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
                      Commission that: 
      
                      (a)    Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
                             associated, is registered with the PCAOB in accordance 
                             with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration 
                             continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with 
                             which he is associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB 
                             and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of or 
                             potential defects in the Respondent’s or the firm’s quality 
                             control system that would indicate that the Respondent will 
                             not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)    Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the 
                             PCAOB, and has complied with all terms and conditions of 
                             any sanctions imposed by the PCAOB (other than 
                             reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                      (d)    Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
                             Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as 
                             an independent accountant, to comply with all requirements 

                                            6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                              of the Commission and the PCAOB     , including, but not 
                              limited to, all requirements relating to registration, 
                              inspections, concurring partner reviews, and quality control 
                              standards.   
 
       D.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards 
of accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional 
conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Jill M. Peterson 
                                                    Assistant Secretary 
 

                                            7 
