---------------------Page 1---------------------

                               UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                             before the 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 74493 / March 12, 2015 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3642 / March 12, 2015 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16431 

                                            :    
In the Matter of                            :   ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                            :   ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
       CYNTHIA A. SABOL, CPA,               :   PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                            :   COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
Respondent.                                 :   
                                            :                                 
                                            : 

                                                   

       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Cynthia 
A. Sabol, CPA (“Respondent” or “Sabol”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
                  1
Rules of Practice.  

                                                 II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of  Settlement  (the  “Offer”)  which  the  Commission  has  determined  to  accept.    Solely  for  the 
purpose  of  these  proceedings  and  any  other  proceedings  brought  by  or  on  behalf  of  the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein,  except  as  to  the  Commission’s  jurisdiction  over  her  and  the  subject  matter  of  these 
                                                 
1
 Rule  102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
               The  Commission,  with  due  regard  to  the  public  interest  and 
               without  preliminary  hearing,  may,  by  order,  .  .  .  suspend from 
               appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
               been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent 
               jurisdiction,  by  reason  of  his  or  her  misconduct  in  an  action 
               brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding a      nd abetting 
               the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of 
               the rules and regulations thereunder.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III, paragraph 3 below, which are admitted, 
Respondent  consents  to  the  entry  of  this  Order  Instituting  Public  Administrative  Proceedings 
Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing 
Remedial Sanctions (the “Order”), as set forth below. 

                                              III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  

       1.     Sabol, age 51, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to practice in the 
Commonwealth of Virginia.  From February 2004 through September 23, 2011, Sabol served as 
Executive  Vice  President,  Chief  Financial  Officer,  Secretary  of  the  Board  of  Directors  and 
principal accounting officer of Commonwealth Bankshares, Inc. (“Commonwealth”).  

       2.     Commonwealth was, at all relevant times, a Virginia corporation with its principal 
place of business in Norfolk, Virginia.  Commonwealth’s common stock was initially registered 
with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and was quoted on the 
NASDAQ  National  Market  under  the  stock  symbol  “CWBS.”  On  July  31,  2006,  after  the 
NASDAQ became a national exchange, pursuant to Commission global order, all NASDAQ 
National Market issuers became Section 12(b) registrants listed on the new NASDAQ Global 
Market (“NASDAQ”).  On September 23, 2011, the Virginia State Corporation Commission’s 
Bureau of Financial Institutions (the “SCC”) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the 
“FDIC”), which insured the deposits held by the Bank, closed the Bank and entered into a purchase 
and assumption agreement with a subsidiary of a privately held bank holding company to assume 
the deposits of the Bank.   Commonwealth remained an inactive corporate entity until May 31, 
2013, when the SCC terminated Commonwealth’s corporate registration.  On July 31, 2013, the 
Commission revoked Commonwealth Section 12(g) registration by consent. 

       3.     On  March  12,  2015,  a  final  judgment  was  entered  against  Sabol,  permanently 
enjoining her from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, Sections 10(b) 
and 13(b)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) and Rules 10b-5, 13a-
14, 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder, and from aiding and abetting violations of Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder, in the civil action entitled 
United States Securities and Exchange Commission v. Edward J. Woodard, et al., Civil Action 
Number 2:13-civ-16, in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia.  Sabol 
was also ordered to pay a $55,000 civil money penalty, and was barred from serving as an officer 
or director of a public company for a period of five years. 

       4.     The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that: 

              a.      Sabol and others  engaged in conduct that significantly misrepresented the 
health of the construction and development loan portfolio of Commonwealth’s bank subsidiary 
and, as a consequence, of Commonwealth itself.   

              b.     Eager to give the impression that, despite the financial crisis, all was well, 
between  in  or  about  November  6,  2008  and  August  16,  2010,  Sabol  and  others  materially 
understated  Commonwealth’s  allowance  for  loan  and  lease  losses  (the  “ALLL”),  materially 
                                               2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

underreported    Commonwealth’s    non-performing    loans,    and    materially    understated    and 
underreported Commonwealth’s other real estate owned in its filings with the Commission. 

               c.      In addition, throughout this period, Sabol and others made, or aided and 
abetted  Commonwealth  and   each   other   in   making,   false   and   misleading   disclosures  in 
Commonwealth’s  filings   and   earnings   releases  regarding  Commonwealth’s   asset   quality, 
underwriting practices, credit monitoring and adequacy of its ALLL based on current collateral 
values. 

                                               IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Sabol’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.      Sabol  is  suspended  from  appearing  or  practicing  before  the  Commission  as  an 
accountant. 

       B.      After five (5) years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider her reinstatement by submitting an application (attention:  Office of the Chief 
Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

               1.     a  preparer  or  reviewer,  or  a  person  responsible  for  the  preparation  or 
       review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  
       Such an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in her practice 
       before the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the 
       public company for which she works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as she 
       practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 

               2.     an   independent   accountant.      Such   an   application   must   satisfy  the 
       Commission that: 

                      (a)     Respondent,  or  the  public  accounting  firm  with  which  she  is 
               associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board 
               (“Board”)   in   accordance   with   the   Sarbanes-Oxley   Act   of   2002,   and   such 
               registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which 
               she is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not 
               identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s 
               quality control system that would indicate that the respondent will not receive 
               appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
               has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board 
               (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                      (d)     Respondent    acknowledges    her    responsibility,    as    long    as 
               Respondent  appears  or  practices  before  the  Commission  as  an  independent 
               accountant, to comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, 
               including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, 
               concurring partner reviews and quality control standards. 

       C.     The  Commission  will  consider  an  application  by  Respondent  to  resume 
appearing  or  practicing  before  the  Commission  provided  that  her  state  CPA  license  is 
current and she has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.      However,   if   state   licensure   is   dependent   on   reinstatement   by   the 
Commission,  the  Commission  will  consider  an  application  on  its  other  merits.    The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 

       By the Commission. 

 

                                                     Brent J. Fields 
                                                     Secretary 

                                                 4  
